#http://www.memphis.edu
UofM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Driven by Doing. Each day at the UofM brings new opportunities to create, experience, develop, design, write, launch and otherwise DO something meaningful. Here, "What are you doing?" is more than a casual greeting. It's a question that taps directly into the heart and soul of every student, researcher, staff and faculty member. How we're making a difference News and community What You Need to Know Prospective Students Admissions Information Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. Scholarships and Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger! Learn how! Apply Online Now Undergraduate Apply Spring Deadline: December 1, 2015 (domestic); September 1, 2015 (international) Get an early start on your application. Law Apply Fall 2016 Deadline: March 16, 2016 (for priority consideration) Memphis Law is looking for its next class. Graduate Apply Application deadlines vary by program. Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. International Apply Spring Deadline: December 15, 2015 For students seeking the F-1 visa category. Academic Support Student Services Student Resources Majors and Minors Get Involved Current Students Academics Financial Aid Transcripts Graduation Academic Calendar Course Schedule Get Involved Student Organizations Event Calendar Volunteer Residential Living Tiger Dining UofM News NOVEMBER 5 2015 UofM Named to List of 2016 Military Friendly Schools NOVEMBER 5 2015 League of American Bicyclists Names UofM a Bicycle Friendly University NOVEMBER 1 2015 Fred Thompson, Former U.S. Senator and UofM Alum Has Passed Away OCTOBER 2 2015 Online Resource Ranks UofM Among Best Online Colleges SEPTEMBER 25 2015 UofM Ranked Among Top PhD Programs in Business SEPTEMBER 10 2015 SETWC and Vaco Partner to Address Transportation Workforce Issues See All News (angle-right) Stay in Touch UofM Alumni Alumni Membership Join our Tiger Family. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Alumni Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Make a Gift Your contribution supports scholarships, colleges, programs and services. Sign up for Alumni Enews Get Informed Parents &amp; Family UofM FAQ Have a question? We have answers! Residential Living and Dining Learn about housing options and meal plans. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid Application information for federal, state and institutional aid programs. Student Services Learn about services and resources available to students. Sign up for Parent Enews Parent Hotline 901.678.2115 parents@memphis.edu MORE Choose Your Path Colleges and Schools "Seeing students connect academic principles to community impact drives me to continue engaged scholarship." Dr. Stephanie Ivey Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law Ranked as one of the Best Value Law Schools in the nation. Learn More College of Arts &amp; Sciences College of Arts &amp; Sciences College of Arts &amp; Sciences Offers a comprehensive curriculum in social sciences, natural sciences and humanities. Learn More College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Communication and Fine Arts Encourages creativity through degrees in Architecture and Interior Design, Art, Communication, Journalism, Music, Theatre and Dance. Learn More College of Education College of Education College of Education Offers degree programs in health and sport sciences, counseling, teaching, educational research and more. Learn More Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics Takes maximum advantage of its metropolitan environment, home to many of America's greatest companies, by providing opportunities to interact with the business community through real-world, relevant projects and internships. Learn More Graduate School Graduate School Graduate School Step up to the next level with master's degree programs in 54 areas in six colleges and three schools. Learn More Herff College of Engineering Herff College of Engineering Herff College of Engineering Develops new biomedical devices, provides transportation efficiency, and real-world engineering experience. Learn More Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Housed in a full-service, award winning hotel and conference center, provides first-hand experience with service standards, business challenges and real-time operations. Learn More Loewenberg School of Nursing Loewenberg School of Nursing Loewenberg School of Nursing Incorporates state-of-the-art technologies to advance education, research, and practice, and forges meaningful partnerships to promote health. Learn More School of Communication Sciences and Disorders School of Communication Sciences and Disorders School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Nationally recognized for its research and clinical education programs for audiologists, speech-language pathologists and speech, language or hearing scientists. Learn More School of Public Health School of Public Health School of Public Health Translates knowledge and research into community practice to support healthy living. Learn More University College University College University College Offers degrees tailored to fit adult, non-traditional students, through courses offered in evenings, on weekends and online. Learn More School of Health Studies School of Health Studies School of Health Studies Produces cutting edge health-specific research and trains future leaders in the allied health sciences. Learn More Apply Now Graduate, Undergraduate and Law School Apply Now - Graduate, Undergraduate and Law School Degrees See All College and Degree Programs Degrees - See All College and Degree Programs Undergraduate Programs Majors, Minors &amp; Concentrations Undergraduate Catalog Honors Program Veterans Programs Graduate Programs Academic Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Graduate Certificate Programs Nationally Ranked Graduate Programs Online Degree Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Regents Online Degree Programs Online Student Orientation Law Program Law Degree Programs Course Catalog Certificate Programs International Programs Study Abroad Intensive English for Internationals International Student Office Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .