#http://www.memphis.edu/rsp/compliance/irb_forms.php
IRB Forms - RSP - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Division of Research and Sponsored Programs Vice President Compliance Sponsored Programs Research Development Research Compliance Human Subjects and IRB Overview Education Requirements Meetings/Members Exemption Decision Guide Adverse Events FAQ Glossary IRB Forms IRB Policy Responsible Conduct Conflict of Interest Export Control Home RSP Research Compliance IRB Forms IRB Forms and Instructions Each form has specific guidelines to help you properly complete the forms. Please read them before completing the form. Below are general instructions for all the IRB forms: Please read the forms and guidelines carefully! Submit completed forms to irb@memphis.edu * (note: do not submit forms or requested revisions to individual IRB Staff e-mail addresses) Applications that are not completed properly will be returned to the investigator as incomplete and will not be processed. A full review and approval may require 30 to 60 days for processing. The IRB will confirm receipt of your documents via e-mail within three business days. Due to a recent change in the IRB mailbox, emails may come back as undeliverable. If this is the case, use the Global Address List to select "Institutional Review Board" and try sending your email again. Forms Forms Guidelines Descriptions Determination Form (DET) None Use this form if you unsure as whether or not your project qualifies as research or if it involves human subjects. Initial Review Request Form (IRR) Initial Review Request Guidelines Use this form for all initial submissions including Exempt, Non-Exempt and Secondary Analysis of Existing Data. Subsequent Event Form (SEF) Subsequent Event Guidelines Use this form for all events that take place after a study's initial approval including Amendments, Continuations, Adverse Events, and Completions. Note: Thanks to a lot of feedback from you, the IRB has unlocked the IRR form to enable tracked changes. If you are making revisions to your IRR, be sure to enable tracked changes in the review ribbon in Microsoft Word. Templates There are instructions to aid the investigator on each of the templates. These instructions must be removed from the final version of the document prior to submission to the IRB. Templates Descriptions Consent Document This template is used to obtain the legally effective informed consent of individuals before involving them in research. Prior to submitting to the IRB, delete all embedded directions to the researcher or it will be returned as incomplete. Assent Document This template is used to gain a child's affirmative agreement to participate in research. Prior to submitting to the IRB, delete all embedded directions to the researcher or it will be returned as incomplete. Parental Permission This template is used to gain a parent's permission for a child to participate in research. Prior to submitting to the IRB, delete all embedded directions to the researcher or it will be returned as incomplete. Exemption Reviewer Checklist This template is used by the IRB Administrator to determine if your protocol qualifies as exempt research. Reviewer Checklist This template is used by the Board members when reviewing a protocol. Recruitment Flyer: Word Document or PDF This template is used as a guideline for what should be included in a recruitment flyer. Waivers Waivers Descriptions Waiver of Written Documentation of Informed Consent The purpose of this form is to provide support for IRB members when reviewing research involving the waiver of written documentation of informed consent. This form must be used to request a waiver of written documentation of informed consent based on federal regulation 45 CFR 46.117 [c]. Waiver of Informed Consent The purpose of this form is to provide support for IRB members when reviewing research involving the waiver of informed consent. This form must be used to request a waiver of informed consent based on federal regulation 45 CFR 46.116 [d]. Thank you for using our new forms and please remember to complete this brief survey to give us some feedback on the new forms. Research Compliance Human Subjects and IRB Overview Education Requirements Meetings/Members Exemption Decision Guide Adverse Events FAQ Glossary IRB Forms IRB Policy Responsible Conduct Conflict of Interest Export Control Forms Forms and other useful information Staff Staff of Research and Sponsored Programs and Grants Accounting Resources Institutional information and resources for the researcher Research Portal Research Portal Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .