#http://www.memphis.edu/crisis/pdf/crisis_mgmt_plan.pdf
Crisis Management Plan Updated - August 2015 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 2 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 3 Record of Revisions Date Pages Web Files Hardcopy Distribution 01/07/2009 03/2010 03/2011 03/2012 03/2013 03/2014 Complete revision Annual review Annual review Annual review Annual review Annual review Updated Updated Updated Updated Updated Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 08/2015 Annual review Updated Yes NOTE: This plan goes through continuous ongoing changes based on the results of actual events, post -exercise drills and activities, and input from units and departments tasked in this plan. The UofM will review this plan on an annual basis, but will also make incremental changes, modifications, and adjustments as conditions warrant. By posting these changes on the UofM website, the most up-to-date version of this plan is instantly available to all UofM and partner responders 24/7. A public version of this plan is available on the UofM website at: The full version, including checklists, contact information, and information that is more detailed can be found at: The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 4 Record of Distribution Department Number of Plans Master Copy 1 Master Files Two versions published on web Public: Full: President 3 Provost 2 VP for Business & Finance 5 Chief Information Officer 2 VP for Marketing and Communications 2 VP for Student Affairs 1 Office of Legal Counsel 2 Police Services 5 Crisis Management Master Copy Environmental Health and Safety 4 AVP Physical Plant 4 Network Services 2 Residence Life and Dining Services 2 Student Affairs 2 AVP Human Resources 3 Athletics 1 Student Disability Services 1 Student Health Services 1 Memphis -Shelby County EMA 1 Public Health 1 City of Memphis EMA 1 Parking & Transportation 1 Earth Sciences 1 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS Letter of Promulgation 2 Record of Revisions 3 Record of Distribution 4 Table of Contents 5 BASIC PLAN 8 Introduction 9 Purpose 9 Planning Assumptions 9 Plan Objectives 10 Types and Levels of Crises 11 Plan Activation 11 Emergency Authority 12 Campus Emergency Operations Center (EOC) Activation 12 Leadership Framework for Crisis Management 13 Response Framework for Crisis Management 13 Crisis Management Team Policy Group 14 Crisis Management Team Operations Group 15 Crisis Management Plan Concept of Operations 18 Incident Command System 19 UofM Emergency Operations Center (E OC) 20 Priority Objectives 21 Recovery and Planning 22 Communications 22 Plan Usage 23 Plan Development, Maintenance and Dissemination 23 Community Assistance by the UofM 24 FUNCTIONAL ANNEXES 25 Annex A Emergency Support Functions 26 Annex B Declaration of Emergency 29 Annex C Crisis Communication Plan 31 Appendix I Communication Tools 35 Appendix II Staff Contact Information 36 Annex D Emergency Evacuations 37 Assembly Area Locations 39 Annex E Evacuation Policy for Persons with Disabilities and Other Special Needs57 Annex F Shelter In-Place 60 Annex G Emergency Closing 63 Annex H Suspicious Mail 67 Annex I - Pandemic Preparedness and Response Plan 69 I.1 -Pandemic Flu 69 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 6 I.2 - Ebola Virus Disease 99 Annex J ITS Disaster Recovery Plan 103 HAZARD SPECIFIC APPENDICES 104 Appendix 1 Severe Weather including Snow and Ice Response Plan 105 Appendix 2 Fire/Smoke 115 Appendix 3 Flooding 119 Appendix 4 Loss of Building Utilities 121 Appendix 5 Bomb Threat or Explosive Device 123 Appendix 6 Train Derailment 129 Appendix 7 Demonstrations/Civil Disturbances 132 Appendix 8 Earthquakes 138 Appendix 9 Biohazard Spill 140 Appendix 10 Chemical Spill 141 A ppendix 11 Environmental Spill 142 Appendix 12 Radiological Spill 144 Appendix 13 Active Shooter 146 GENERAL APPENDICES 148 Appendix 14 EOC Staff Assignment Form 149 Appendix 15 CMT Members Contact Information 152 - Emergency Support Functions 152 - Satellite Phone Distribution List 153 Appendix 16 - Guidelines for the Use and Testing of the Outdoor Warning System 154 TA BLES 1 56 Table 1A EOC Management Functions 15 7 Table 1B Operations Functions 158 Table 1C Planning Functions 1 60 Table 1D Logistics Functions 161 Table 1E Finance/Administration Functions 163 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS CENTER ORGANIZATIONAL CHART 164 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS CENTER LAYOUT 165 CHECKLISTS 16 6 Checklist 1 Policy Group 167 Checklist 2 EOC Director 168 Checklist 3 Administration and Support Staff 172 Checklist 4 Internal Liaison 173 Checklist 5 External Liaison 174 Checklist 6 Public Information Officer 175 Checklist 7 Operations Section Chief 177 Checklist 8 Police Services 180 Checklist 9 Physical Plant 182 Checklist 10 Environmental Health and Safety 184 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 7 Checklist 11 Animal Care Facilities 186 Checklist 12 Student Health Services 187 Checklist 13 Information Technology 189 Checklist 14 Care and Shelter 191 Checklist 15 Residence Life and Dining Services 193 Checklist 16 Emergency Staff Services 194 Checklist 17 CERT Team Liaison 195 Checklist 18 Planning Section Chief 197 Checklist 19 Situation Status 200 Checklist 20 Damage Assessment 20 2 Checklist 21 Emergency Projects 205 Checklist 22 Logistics Section Chief 206 Checklist 23 Resource Procurement 209 Checklist 24 Human Resources Staff and Volunteers 211 Checklist 25 Site Inventory Goods, Materials and Equipment 212 Checklist 26 Transportation Services 213 Checklist 27 Emergency Food, Water and Sanitation 215 Checklist 28 Communications/Computing 217 Checklist 29 Finance/Administration Section Chief 219 Checklist 30 Emergency Accounting 221 Checklist 31 Insurance Claims 223 Checklist 32 Employee Compensation 224 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ACRONYMS 22 5 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 8 Basic Plan The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 9 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan T HE B ASIC P LAN 1. Introduction The President of The University of Memphis (UofM) has primary responsibility for effectively managing any crisis that might occur on or affect the UofM campus. Disasters or emergencies can happen suddenly, creating a situation in which normal operational and support services for the University may become overwhelmed. During crises, the University requires processes that address the needs of emergency response operations and recovery management. To address such emergencies, the UofM has established emergency response procedures, that provide guidelines for the management of the immediate actions and operations required to respond to an emergency or disaster. The overall priorities of the University during a disaster are the protection of lives, valuable research, property, the community, and the environment. The overall objective is to respond to emergency conditions an d manage the process of restoring University academic and research programs and services. This document represents the Campus Crisis Management Plan, which encompasses the facilities, services and administration of the UofM campus(es). 2. Purpose of the Plan 2.1 This plan provides the management structure, key responsibilities, emergency assignments, and general procedures to follow during and immediately after an emergency. The University has established this plan to address the immediate requirements for a major disaster or emergency in which normal operations are interrupted and special measures must be taken to: 2.1.1 Protect and preserve human life, health and well - being. 2.1.2 Minimize damage to the natural environment. 2.1.3 Minimize loss, damage or disruption to the facilities, resources and operations. 2.1.4 Manage immediate communications and information regarding emergency response operations and campus safety. 2.1.5 Provide essential services and operations. 2.1.6 Provide and analyze information to support decision - ma king and action plans. 2.2 This plan does not supersede or replace the procedures for safety, hazardous materials response or other procedures that are already in place at the University. It supplements those procedures with a crisis management structure, which provides for the immediate focus of management on response operations and the early transition to recovery operations. 3. Planning Assumptions 3.1 Emergency planning requires a commonly accepted set of assumed operational conditions that provide a foundation for establishing protocols and procedures. These assumptions are called planning assumptions, and the standard practice is to base planning on the worst - case conditions. For the University, as for all organizations in high seismic regions, the w orst - case conditions are The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 10 represented by the earthquake hazard. Using the earthquake model, the planning assumptions incorporated into this plan include: 3.1.1 Critical lifeline utilities may be interrupted, including: water delivery, electrical power, natural gas, ground - based and cellular communications, microwave and repeater based radio systems, and information systems. 3.1.2 Regional and local public services may not be available. 3.1.3 Major roads, overpasses, bridges and local streets may be damaged. 3.1.4 Buildings and structures, including homes, may be damaged. 3.1.5 Damage and shaking may cause injuries to, and displacement of people. 3.1.6 Normal suppliers may not be able to deliver materials. 3.1.7 Contact with family and homes may be interrupted. 3.1.8 People may become conf ined to the University as off - campus travel conditions may become unsafe. 3.1.9 Initially, the University will need to conduct its own rapid damage assessment, situational analysis and deployment of on - site resources and management of emergency operations, from the campus Emergency Operations Center (EOC), while emergency conditions exist. These responsibilities may change upon the arrival of emergency first responders. 3.1.10.1 Communication and exchange of information will be one of the highest priority o perations at the EOC. The inter/intranets may be inoperative. 4. Plan Objectives 4.1 The objectives of this plan are to: 4.1.1 Organization a. Provide clear and easy - to - follow checklist based guidelines for the most critical functions and liaisons during an emergency response. b. Provide an easy to follow plan design in which users can quickly determine their role, responsibilities and primary tasks. c. Link and coordinate processes, actions and the exchange of critical information into an efficient and real - time overall response so that stakeholders are informed of the emergency response process and have access to information about what is occurring at the University. 4.1.2 Communications and Information Management a. Serve as the central point of communications both for receipt and transmission of urgent information and messages. b. Serve as the official point of contact for the UofM during emergencies when normal communication channels are interrupted. c. Provide 24 - hour communication services for voice, data and operational systems. d. Collect and collate all disaster related information for notification, public information, documentation and post - incident analysis. e. Provide a basis for training staff and organizations in emergency response management. 4.1.3 Decision Making a. Determine, through a clear decision - making process, the level of response and the extent of emergency control and coordination that should be activated when incidents occur. 4.1.4 Response Operations a. Utilize the resources at the UofM campus to implement a comprehensive and efficien t emergency management response team. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 11 b. Be prepared with a pro - active emergency response management action plan that provides the possibilities and eventualities of emerging incidents. 4.1.5 Recovery Operations a. Transition response operations to normal management and operational processes, as able. b. Support business resumption plans and processes, as needed, during restoration phases. c. Provide documentation and information to support the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) disaster assistance program application. 5. Types and Levels of Crisis 5.1 Level 1 - Limited Crisis. A limited crisis, within the scope of this plan, is any incident, potential or actual, which will not seriously affect the overall functional capacity of the university, but nevertheless requires some degree of action. In some cases, a limited crisis may be small enough that the affected department can effectively resolve the issue. In other cases, assistance from the University Police and/or off - campus emergency response groups may be required according to the standard operating procedures of the UofM Police. While some damage and/or interruption may occur, the conditions are localized and the UofM EOC activation is not needed. Examples of Limited Crises in the context of this plan may include, but are not limited to the following: localized chemical spill, plumbing failure or water leak. 5.2 Level 2 - Issue - Driven Crisis. Includes issue driven and/or slowly developing situations that negatively impact The University of Memphis. The incident may be severe and cause damage and/or interruption to UofM operations. A partial or full activation of the UofM EOC is needed. UofM may be the only affected entity. Examples of issue driven crises may include, but are not limited to the following: unscheduled or planned protests or disruptions; civil disturbances; unauthorized occupancy of campus areas; sexual assaults; controversial speakers; and hate crimes. 5.3 Level 3 - Major Crisis. A major crisis, within the scope of this plan, is an incident posing major risk to University personnel, students, visitors, or resources that has caused or has the potential for causing fatalities or injuries and/or major damage. Such an incident is equivalent to a campus - wide of is expected to require activation of the UofM EOC and Crisis Management Team (CMT) in order to provide an immediate emergency response . UofM may request assistance from the City of Memphis, Shelby County, other State agencies or request federal assistance via the Memphis - Shelby County Emergency Operations Center . A Level 3 crisis may develop from incidents beginning at the Level 1 or 2 stages. Examples of major crises may include one or a combination of the following perils: active shooter, infectious disease, fire, explosion, severe weather conditions, earthquake, building collapse, flood, wind, chemical release, radioactive contamination, major civil disturbance, bomb threat, aircraft emergency, barricade or hostage situatio n, or other acts of terrorism. 6. Plan Activation The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 12 6.1 This plan is activated whenever emergency conditions exist in which normal operations cannot be performed and immediate action is required to: Save and protect lives. Coordinate communications. Prevent damage to the environment, systems and property. Provide essential services. Temporarily assign University staff to perform emergency work. Invoke emergency authorization to procure and allocate resources. Activate and staff the Emergency Operatio ns Center (EOC). 7. Emergency Authority 7.1 Crisis Management Team (CMT) Policy Group 7.1.1 The President of the University of Memphis serves as leader of the CMT - Policy Group which may activate in the event of a Level 3 emergency or whenever executive policy issues must be addressed during a crisis. In the event of any threatened or actual disaster or civil disorder on the campus of the University of Memphis at a time when the President of the University is absent from campus, the authority to take all necessary and appropriate actions on behalf of the President of the University is hereby delegated to the following University officers in the order listed below, with such authority being delegated to the highest ranked University officer on the list who m Police Services is able to contact: 1. Provost 2. Chief of Staff 3. Vice President for Business and Finance 4. Vice President for Student Affairs 5. Chief Information Officer 6. Vice President for Marketing & Communications 7. Vice President for Advancement NOTE: For a civil disturbance situation only , the Director of Public Safety or, in the Director's absence, the senior on - duty police supervisor is hereby delegated the authority to take all necessary and appropriate actions on behalf of the President under the following conditions: (1) When neither the President nor any of the University officers listed above can be contacted within a reasonable period, given the immediacy and other circumstances of the threatened or actual civil disorder. (2) When an actual civil dis order is in progress and immediate action is necessary to protect persons or property from further injury or damage. 7.2 UofM Campus Emergency Operations Center (EOC) Activation 7.2.1 During incidents and emergency conditions in which the immediate activation of the UofM EOC is needed, the following UofM positions may activate this plan and the UofM EOC, and serve as the EOC Director (in recommended order) : UofM Director of Public Safety Emergency Preparedness Coordinator Director of Environmental, Health and Safety Vice President for Business and Finance The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 13 In the event that none of the above is available, the UofM Police Services Shift Supervisor will assume authority for the activation of this plan and provide overall direction until one of the above designees arrives. 8. Leadership Framework for Crisis Management 8.1 This leadership framework is based on the National Incident Management System (NIMS) and incorporates the Incident Command System (ICS), which is designed to provide an organizational structure capable of responding to various levels of emergencies ranging in complexity. It also provides the flexibility needed to respond to an incident as it escalates in severity. Because of this flexibility: 8.1.1 The leadership framework for crisis managem ent as defined in this plan does not resemble the day - to - day organizational structure of the University. Employees may report to other employees to whom they do not usually have a reporting relationship. 8.1.2 Further, assignments and reporting relationships may change as crisis conditions change. 8.2 The Crisis Management Team (CMT) coordinates the campus response to, and recovery from Level 2 and 3 Crises. 8.3 Each member of the CMT has a designated alternate. For the purposes of this plan and its Annexes, the primary CMT member will be mentioned by position title. However, if the primary CMT member is unavailable, his or her alternate will carry out the duties of the primary CMT member. 8.4 The CMT is composed of two teams or groups the Policy Group and the Operations Group. 8.4.1 Role of Policy Group (CMT - Policy): Defines Crisis Policy Declares Campus State of Emergency Approves overall priorities & strategies Communicates with TBR, THEC, State Legislators, as needed Issues public information reports & instructions Determin es program closures and resumptions Plans and prioritizes long term recovery 8.4.2 Role of Operations Group (CMT - Operations): Determines the scope and impact of the incident Prioritizes emergency actions Deploys and coordinates resources and equipment Communicates critical information and instructions Monitors and reevaluates conditions Coordinates with government agencies (e.g., Memphis/Shelby County, TEMA, FEMA) Implements and monitors recovery operations Response Framework for Crisis Management 9.1 Any Unpredicted Crisis or Emergency. Report any crisis or emergency immediately to University of Memphis Police Services at 678 - HELP (4357). 9.2 Police Services Dispatch will follow a defined sequence of responses for nearly all emergency situations: 9.2.1 Dispatch police officers and make appropriate fire and/or medical rescue calls. 9.2.2 Notify the Director of Public Safety or his designee according to departmental procedures. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 14 9.2.3 Notify Emergency Preparedness Coordinator. 9.2.4 Notify the Director of Environmental Health & Safety, the Assistant Vice President of Physical Plant, Student Health Services, and/or Residence Life per internal procedures, as appropriate. 9.2.5 If warranted, the Director of Public Safety will notify the President, the Vice President for Business & Finance, and/or other individuals, after crisis conditions are verified by Environmental Health & Safety, Physical Plant and/or Student Health Services. 9.2.6 The President or designee determines whether to declare a Major Crisis and notifies the Director of Public Safety. 9.2.7 See Annex C (Crisis Communications Plan) for subsequent notification procedures. 9.3 Response to a Level 1 - Limited Crisis. The impacted departments or personnel coordinate directly with Police Services, Emergency Preparedness, Environmental Health & Safety, Residence Life, or Physical Plant to resolve a Level 1 Crisis. Level 1 Crises are reported through normal channels (Police Services for issues of public safety, Physical Plant for building issues, Telecommunications for telephone problems, etc.) and, are handled based upon established departmental practices. Level 1 Crises do not require activation of the Crisis Management Plan, although portions of the plan may be utilized (e.g., Building Evacuation procedures). 9.4 Resp onse to a Level 2 - Controversial Issue. The CMT Policy Group is responsible for evaluating Level 2 situations on a case - by - case basis. Level 2 situations can be quite complex because of the varied institutional, student, and community responses that must be coordinated. Activation of all or portions of the Crisis Management Plan may be warranted. 9.5 Response to a Level 3 - Major Crisis 9.5.1 When a Level 3 crisis is declared by the President or designee (see Section 5.3), such declaration authorizes the Director of Public Safety to activate the CMT - Operations Group. 9.5.2 Members of the CMT - Operations Group are notified by Police Services Dispatch. 9.5.3 Members of the CMT - Policy Group are notified by the Office or the Office of the Vice President for Business & Finance. 9.5.4 When crisis conditions abate, the CMT - Policy Group and the Emergency Operations Center Director recommend an appropriate time to return to normal conditions. 9.5.5 Prior to assembling the CMT - Operations Group, on - scene responders following the Incident Command System (ICS), are authorized to make essential operational decisions and to commit resources for mitigation and control purposes. Police Services may also request help from other departments on an emergency basis, including requesting reassignment of staff from less critical assignments. 9.5.6 If a Level 3 Crisis is declared, it may become necessary to restrict access to specific areas on campus to only authorized personnel. Only those designated individuals with assigned crisis response duties will be allowed to enter an area or building affected by an incident. Access restrictions will be communicated through appropriate channels. Failure to comply may result in disciplinary or legal action. Crisis Management Team - Policy Group 10.1 Members of the CMT - Policy Group are notified by the President or the Vice President for Business & Finance or their designees. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 15 10.2 Membership. The CMT - Policy Group consists of University leadership as follows: President Provost Vice President for Business and Finance Vice President for Student Affairs Chief Information Officer Vice President for Communications & Marketing Director of Athletics Legal Counsel others as needed depending on the nature of the incident 10.3 Joint Informat ion Center (JIC). A JIC is a central location for involved agencies to coordinate public information activities and a forum for news media representatives to receive disaster information. The purpose of a JIC is to maintain liaisons with the news media; provide news releases and other information as approved by the President; assure that official statements are issued only by those administrators authorized to issue such statements; assist in handling telephone inquiries from the public relative to the disaster and accredit bonafide members of the news media operating on campus. The Vice President for Communications, Public Relations and Marketing is responsible for developing procedures related to the development of such a Center. Crisis Management Team - Operations Group 11.1 Members of the CMT - Operations Group are notified by Police Services Dispatch, and follow provided instructions. 11.2 When notified, members of the CMT - Operations Group will immediately report to the primary Emergency Operations Center (EOC) located on the Park Ave. Campus in the Defense Audit Building. 11.3 CMT - Operations Group Leadership 11.3.1 The Director of Public Safety is the designated EOC Director, however, the President may appoint an EOC Director as the situation requires; this individual has ultimate responsibility for activation, oversight and termination of the Emergency Operations Center. 11.3.2 In the Director of Public absence, the Emergency Preparedness Coordinator is an alternate EOC Director. If the situation warrants, EOC Director responsibilities may be ceded to the Director for Environmental Health and Safety, Vice President for Business and Finance, or another University official as directed by the President. 11.4 CMT - Operations Group Membership & Responsibilities 11.4.1 The EOC Director is selected based upon nature of incident; this person will collaborate with CMT Operations Group members to provide overall strategy for the EOC. Reviews and approves overall priorities and action strategies for the emergency response. Works with and supports Communication Services in the development and delivery of messages. Coordinates and communicates as necessary with the CMT Policy Group and other University groups regarding the UofM Campus EOC operations and oversees response and recovery operations. Activates the EOC, leads the EOC Action Plan, and deactivate as conditions return to normal. Has the delegated authority to act in The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 16 the best interest of the University and the goals of emergency response and recovery, on behalf of the CMT Policy Group during immediate response operations. 11.4.2 Director of Public Safety will manage Police functional operations at the EOC. Serves as the Operations Section Chief for incidents in which the police field units are the Incident Comm anders. Coordinates general field assignment with the Police Department Command Center and may, as needed, communicate directly with field Incident Commanders and units. Has the lead for the Operational Action Plan for law enforcement, security, traffic control, evacuations, access control, and crime scene preservation. Coordinates with the county Medical Examiner's office for incidents involving fatalities. Has primary authority for establishing priority for field response and police resource allocation. Responsible for managing search and rescue and fire suppression, if the Memphis Fire Department is not immediately available. 11.4.3 Emergency Preparedness Coordinator is responsible for overall supervision of collecting, analyzing, and displaying si tuation information; preparing periodic situation reports; preparing and distributing the EOC Action Plan and facilitating the action planning meeting; conducting advance planning activities; providing technical support services to the various EOC Sections and Units, and documenting and maintaining files on all EOC activities. Information is needed to: Understand the current situation Predict probable course of incident events Prepare alternative strategies for the incident 11.4.4 Director of Environmental Health and Safety will manage and coordinate the environmental health and safety functions of the emergency response on the UofM campus and provide consultation for emergency response at other UofM locations. This includes providing input for suspected problems with hazardous chemical, biological or radiological materials or spills, or basic public health concerns related to contaminated water, sewage or air contaminants. Provide consultation to assist in the assessment of unsafe conditions. Manage and coordinate on - site hazard assessments. Coordinate HazMat contractor(s) consistent with EOC priorities. Advise and provide information to other campus departments and emergency response personnel on the safety and health of planned operations and responses. Provide input for the Operational Action Plan for evaluating and prioritizing response operations relative to hazardous situations, fire risks, and health and environmental risks. 11.4.5 Assistant Vice President for Physical Plant will have the responsibility for managing and coordinating the prioritized response and exchange of operational information for all buildings, power and water utilities, roadways, and grounds with the Work Control Center. Has the lead for damage assessment, repair and restoration operations for all campus power and water utilities, facilities roadways, and grounds, and assists with emergency power and support for all field operations and the EOC. Is responsible for providing reports from outside utilities, and transitioning emergen cy operations to clean up and repair operations. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 17 11.4.6 Designee of VP for Communications, Public Relations and Marketing Services will serve as the liaison between the Joint Information Center (JIC) and the EOC Director. Collaborating with the JIC, this individual will coordinate the needs of the outside media and assist the EOC in determining appropriate news releases to the public. 11.4.7 Director for Network and Data Center Operations maintains, operates, and deploys emergency telecommunication tools. Will provide alternate voice and data communications capability in the event of disruption to normal telecommunications lines and equipment. The Director will evaluate current and projected requirements and select the appropriate technological means of backing up the UofM telecommunications network. 11.4.8 Designee of Provost will have the responsibility of informing and assigning responsibility to the Deans and the faculty. This individual will also serve as a liaison between faculty and the CMT - Operations Group, informing the crisis responders of the specific aspects of an affected facility (e.g., location of research materials, presence of research animals). 11.4.9 Designee of Vice President for Student Affairs will have the responsibility of ensuring that the needs and concern of students are met including contact with family members. This individual will serve as the liaison with Student Affairs staff and with student leaders, and will arrange for deployment of the Student Affairs Critical Incident Team, if warranted. The purpose of this team is to provide counseling services to students in times of crisis or trauma. 11.4.10 Director for Residence Life and Dining Services will have responsibilities for ensuring appropriate care and sheltering needs of resident students. Determine the number of students who will require evacuation and emergency sheltering and coordinate their relocation to suitable emergency shelters located on and off campus. Provide a current listing of resident students by location to the Emergency Operations Center. Organize student volunteers (as a last resort) for operational use during the emergency. This individual will coordinate and handle emergency feeding for students, staff, faculty and volunteer workers. 11.4.11 Assistant Vice President/Chief Human Resources Officer will have the responsibility of developing procedures to provide response personnel with information regarding their families. The AVP - HR will coordinate services for affected faculty and staff to include referral for injuries covered by compensation, counseling services and EAP referrals, and staff notification through various communications channels. Responsible for managing emergency human resource operations, including temporary or emer gency hires, critical processes for benefits and employee services, and other HR related activities in support of the emergency response and recovery. Responsible for coordinating all UofM staff volunteer resources to support the University's needs. Set up a registration process for ensuring UofM staff volunteers are working under the management of an appropriate manager of the University. Registration includes obtaining emergency contact numbers, signed statement indicating complete and voluntary participation and willingness to work as assigned. May need to address work The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 18 requirements, i.e. lifting, hazard exposure, etc. This task is not required for any volunteers who are coordinated by an official organization, such as the American Red Cross or United Way. 11.4.12 Designee of Director for Student Health Services will coordinate the request for and allocation of medical resources at the campus. Will coordinate the location of on - going triage and minor care to injured persons and assist responding agencies providing mutual aid. Monitors and documents injury and death reports, and coordinates with UofM Police Services for reports to the Medical Examiner. Crisis Management Plan - Concept of Operations 12.1 The UofM Crisis Management Plan is considered a management tool; it provides overall organizational and general procedural guidelines for the management of information, activities, and operations during an emergency. The planning is based on NIMS and the Incident Command System (ICS), a management structure adopted throughout the United States and utilized internationally. This approach to emergency management provides Emergency Support Functions (ESFs) for each critical operation of the University during an emergency, and allows the utilization of ICS protocols in the EOC during activation. It also provides for a smooth transition to restoration of normal services and the implementation of programs for recovery. For the purpose of additional role definition with accompanying responsibilities, ESF are assigned to the following sections: 1. Operations ESF 2, Communications ESF 4, Firefighting ESF 9, Campus Search & Rescue ESF 10, Hazardous Materials Response ESF 13, Campus Safety & Security 2. Planning ESF 5, Information & Planning ESF 15, Recovery ESF 12, Utilities 3. Logistics ESF 1, Transportation ESF 3, Campus Infrastructure ESF 6, Human Services ESF 8, Health & Medical Services ESF 11, Emergency Food Assistance 4. Finance/Administration ESF 7, Resource Support ESF 14, Donations, Volunteers The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 19 Each Branch is consolidated in the EOC during activation to insure coordination among various departments and organizations. Benefits of the ICS process: 1. History a. Thirty - year history of successful implementation for emergency response management in the field. b. Ten - year history as the International (Global) Standard for Emergency Management organization. 2. Proven Best Practices in Emergency Management a. Flexibility in application allows for scale - up, scale - down and transition. b. Team - based, bundled and linked processes and cross - functional efficiency within the organization. c. Easy - to - understand for the users. d. Action oriented focuses on results and output. e. Starts and stops designed for rapid deployment and smooth de - activation. f. Wide application to unique settings. 3. Aligned with Adjacent and Contiguous Agencies a. Standardized functions. b. Standardized processes. c. Follows State of Tennessee guidelines. 12.2 Generally, the designation of first responder is assigned to Police Services pertaining to any crisis. The first officer arriving at the scene establishes an Incident Command Post and assumes the role of Incident Commander. This responsibility may be transferred as additional command or more experienced personnel arrive. 12.3 The Incident Commander is responsible for coordinating on - scene operational activities and providing frequent status updates to the EOC. 12.4 If the situation requires multi - jurisdictional response, establishment of a Unified Command may become necessary. 12.5 If warranted, incident command will transfer to the governmental agency with the broadest jurisdictional authority (e.g., Memphis Fire Department, EMA, among others) for that incident. 12.6 The Incident Command Post will be established at a location near the crisi s which provides the best available location for observation and logistical support but which ensures an adequate level of safety. 12.6.1 The Incident Command Post is the location from which on - site response is staged and managed. 12.6.2 Communication facilities at the Incident Command Post will be made available for use by participating units. 12.6.3 Each responding agency and unit must have a representative present at the Incident Command Post. These representatives upon arrival will identify themselves to the Incident Commander. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 20 UofM Emergency Operations Center (EOC) 13.1 The EOC serves as the central management center for the CMT - Operations Group. The primary EOC is located in the Defense Audit Building Room 186 (Park Avenue Campus). are loca ted at Police Services in the Zach Curlin Garage, and, the Herzog Building Training Room. The Emergency Preparedness Coordinator is responsible for ensuring these facilities are appropriately equipped. 13.2 Once an emergency is declared and the EOC is activated, it will be staffed on a 24 - hour basis by key members of the CMT - Operations Group if necessary, or as directed by the UofM President. 13.3 In cases of a Major Crisis, the Director of Public Safety may activate the Emergency Operations Center (EOC), which shall serve as the workspace for members of the CMT - Operations Group responsible for executing required Emergency Support Functions (ESF). 13.4 The EOC staff will be organized to ensure the following management activities or actions are performed: 13.3.1 EOC Director - the person who is responsible for setting objectives and priorities and has overall responsibility of the incident. 13.3.2 Operations Section primarily responsible for managing the tactical operations of various response elements involved in the cris is/emergency. 13.3.3 Planning section is responsible for the collection, analysis and display of information relating to incident operations, compiling it into documents that can be used immediately by decision - makers and responders. Develop alternative tactical action plans, conduct planning meetings and prepare the EOC Action Plan for incidents which require extended operational periods. 13.3.4 Logistics Section ensures the acquisition, transportation and mobilization of resources to support the response effort at the disaster site(s), and the EOC. Additionally, if the severity of the emergency requires mass evacuation, the Logistics Section will coordinate with City of Memphis, Shelby County, and the American Red Cross for the establishment of housing, sh elters and mass feeding capabilities for victims and/or responders and their dependents. Methods for obtaining and using facilities, equipment, supplies, services, and other resources will be the same as used during normal operations unless authorized by the EOC Director or emergency orders of the University President. 13.3.5 Finance/Administration tracks spending, approves expenditures and purchasing, tracks worker hours, handles claims for compensation and coordinates disaster financial assistance. The Finance Section also coordinates with the Logistics Section Purchase/Supply Unit Leader the negotiation and administration of vendor and supply contracts and procedures. 13.5 All departments requiring outside resources must submit their departmental needs to th e EOC. The EOC will coordinate with appropriate agencies/organizations to obtain the needed resources. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 21 Priority Objectives 14.1 The CMT - Operations Group will concentrate their efforts on Priority I objectives until these objectives are substantially met. Priority II and III objectives will be addressed as resources become available. 14.1.1 Priority I Life Safety and Evacuation - evaluate the need to evacuate people from hazardous or high - risk areas to safe zones. Medical Aid - evaluate medical services available and advise rescue forces regarding location of treatment facilities for injured. Fire Suppression - evaluate fires or fire hazards and use available resources to control and evacuate. Search and Rescue - establish search and rescue teams and initiate rescue operations as required. Communication Network - establish a communication network using available staff, materials and equipment. Utilities Survey - evaluate condition of utilities (gas, electric, steam, water, sewer) and shutdown or restore as needed. Hazardous Substance Control - survey critical areas (i.e., biological and chemical) and secure or clean up as needed. 14.1.2 Priority II Food and Drinking Water - identify supplies on hand and establish a distribution sy stem for food and water. Shelter - identify usable structures to house resident students and/or community victims. Facility - evaluate facilities (i.e., buildings, classrooms) for occupancy or use. Identify and seal off condemned areas. Information - establish a communications system with the campus community and advise everyone regarding availability of services. Animal Control - provide controls and containment for all experimental animals on campus. Criminal Activity Control - establish a police/security system to protect property and control criminal activity. Psychological Assistance - establish a system to assist persons in coping with the crisis. Transportation - organize transportation for relocation to shelter. 14.1.3 Priority III Valuable Materials Survey - identify and secure valuable materials (i.e., artwork, historical books) on campus. Records Survey - identify and secure all University of Memphis records. Academic Survey - determine requirements to continue academic operations. Supplies and Equipment - develop a system to renew flow of supplies and equipment The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 22 Recovery and Planning 15.1 As operations progress from Priority I through Priority III, the administrative control of the crisis/emergency situation will move from the EOC back to the normal University organizational structure. The President, with input from the EOC Director, will determine when to deactivate the EOC. Communications 16.1 At the onset of a crisis, news is likely to spread quickly. Nevertheless, a formal plan must be in place and supporting protocols must be followed to ensure that all necessary notifications are reliably completed. The University of Memphis Crisis Communications Plan establishes procedures related to communications with external audiences (i.e., media, community, etc.), (See Annex C). 16.2 CMT Communications Initial Notification. 16.2.1 The key University of Memphis communications hub is the Police Services Dispatch. The Physical Plant Facilities Operations unit serves as an alternate site. 16.2.2 Polices Services Dispatch is the only communication link with 911 and the Memphis Police and Fire Departments. 16.2.3 Police Services or Physical Plant Facilities Operations will usually be the first notified of a crisis. Each unit shall ensure that any notification of a crisis is shared with the other unit and the Emergency Preparedness Coordinator. 16.2.4 As defined in Section 9.2, Police Services Dispatch will follow a defined sequence of responses for nearly all emergency situations. 16.2.5 Dispatch police officers and make appropriate fire and/or medical rescue calls 16.2.6 Notify the Director of Public Safety or his designee according to departmental procedures 16.2.7 Notify the Director of Environmental Health & Safety, the Assistant Vice President of Physical P lant, Student Health Services, and/or Residence Life per internal procedures 16.2.8 If warranted, the Director of Public Safety will notify the President, the Vice President for Business & Finance, and/or other individuals, after crisis conditions are verified by Environmental Health & Safety, Physical Plant and/or Student Health Services. 16.2.9 Generally, the Vice President for Business & Finance or designee shall be responsible for contacting the President, Provost, Vice President for Student Affairs, Chief Information Officer, Vice President for Communications and others as appropriate. 16.2.10 The President or designee determines whether to dec lare a Major Crisis and notifies the Director of Public Safety. 16.2.11 The Director of Public Safety notifies Police Services Dispatch of the declaration, and provides Dispatch with instructions for the CMT - Operations Group. 16.2.12 Police Services Dispatch will notify all members of the CMT - Operations Group and provide them with appropriate instructions. 16.3 Communications Equipment. 16.3.1 Land - line telephones will be the primary means of communications and will be used to contact CMT members and university departments. Alternate methods of communication will include TigerText messages, cellular telephones, pagers, etc. 16.3.2 Cellular phones, mobile radios and pagers may be issued to CMT members as appropriate. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 23 16.4 Family Communications . 16.4.1 In a crisis, emergency personnel will need to know whether their families are safe. As described in Section 11.4.11, the Assistant Vice President for Human Resources will develop appropriate procedures to address these needs in the case of a Major Crisis. Plan Usage 17.1 This plan is established as a supplement to the administrative policies and procedures. Under activation and implementation, it serves as an emergency manual setting forth the authority to direct operations, direct staff assignments, procure and allocate resources, and take measures to restore normal services and operations. 17.2 Users are to follow and complete the checklists contained in this document during emergency response (and training activations and exercises). The for ms are then retained on file as official records of the emergency response. Users are also encouraged to supplement this manual with additional individual materials and information required for emergency response and recovery. 17.3 This plan is designed to be updated after each activation or exercise. A debriefing session will be conducted to identify and areas of improvement to the emergency plans and processes. The procedural checklists and forms are to be reviewed and revised each time they are reprinted for electronic update and distribution. Plan Development, Maintenance & Dissemination 18.1 The Vice President for Business & Finance is the Responsible Executive Officer of the Crisis Management Program of The University of Memphis, and as such is responsible for ensuring that the plan is developed and maintained. 18.2 The maintenance and further development of the plan must be a shared responsibility, involving many departments and units across campus. The Emergency Preparedness Coordinator is responsible for facilitating that work. 18.3 Each unit or department identified as having a role in this CMP is responsible for communicating the content of the CMP to its staff. 18.4 The CMP shall be reviewed annually by the Crisis Management Team - Operations Group and modified as necessary. The updated plan shall be forwarded to the President for approval, followed by dissemination to CMT members and posting to the Crisis Management webpage. 18.5 As potential crises emerge, any member of the CMT - Operations Group may convene the Group to prepare hazard - specific plans. 18.6 The Emergency Preparedness Coordinator will conduct quarterly exercises to train personnel and evaluate the adequacy of the CMP. After - action reports will be prepared and submitt ed to the President following each exercise. The University will conduct a functional exercise annually, involving all response personnel, faculty, staff and students, as warranted. The remaining exercises may be of a smaller scale: focused tabletops or orientations that involve only portions of the CMP. The Emergency Preparedness Coordinator shall be responsible for developing these exercises, in consultation with the CMT - Operations Group. 18.7 An Emergency Response and Business Continuity Plan is generally required for each Administrative and Academic workspace, and should be considered part of every The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 24 basic health and safety responsibility. Division/Department Emergency Response and Business Continuity Plans support the broader Campus Crisis Management Plan . The Emergency Preparedness Coordinator will provide a template to assist in developing this plan. Community Assistance by the University of Memphis. A crisis affecting the community may require local authorities to request the assistance of University of Memphis personnel and/or facilities. It is logical to assume such assistance would most likely involve the necessity to provide temporary shelter for victims of a disaster and/or medical care for these persons. The U niversity of Memphis will cooperate to the extent possible in any emergency assistance operations directed by outside agencies. Assistance of this nature may require entering into Memorandums of Understanding, Mutual Aid Agreements or other forms of assistance arrangements. It may also require implementation of the UofM Crisis Management Plan. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 25 Functional Annexes The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 26 ANNEX A Emergency Support Functions with Lead and Support Departments ESF #1 Transportation Lead: Parking & Transportation Services Support: Business Services Responsibility: Provide transportation strategies, resources and information for the University. ESF #2 Communications Infrastructure Lead: Information Technology Support: Physical Plant (Electronics Shop) Responsibility : (1) Provide radio, telecommunications, and data systems support to emergency responders during normal and emergency/disaster operations. (2) Provide a multimodal warning system capable of disseminating adequate and timely warnings to the campus community in the event of an emergency/disaster whether immediate or imminent. ESF #3 Campus Infrastructure Lead: Physical Plant Support: Police and Procurement Services Responsibility: (1) Perform building inspections of buildings damaged during emergencies/disasters. (2) Identify and prioritize which routes on University property are open for traffic and remove debris if necessary. (3) Provide or contract for d ebris removal operations is areas affected by emergencies/disasters. (4) Facilitate restoration of any utilities affected by the emergency/disaster. ESF #4 Firefighting Lead: Local Government Fire Departments Responsibility: Coordination of firefighting activities affecting UofM campus locations. ESF #5 Information and Planning Lead: Emergency Preparedness Support: Communications, Public Relations and Marketing and Physical Plant Responsibilities: (1) Establish procedures for gathering and analyzing information required to determine the extent of an emergency/disaster and to produce an action plan for resource prioritization. (2) Provide guidance and procedures to implement dissemination of emergency information to the campus community. (3) Establish a framework for gathering and reporting damage assessment information to the EOC during and/or after emergency/disaster operations. ESF #6 Human Services Lead: Residence Life and Student Affairs Support: Physical Plant and Human Resources The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 27 Responsibilities: (1) Provide emergency sheltering for faculty, staff and students during emergencies/disasters affecting UofM campus (including special needs population). (2) Provide individualized crisis counseling and other similar support programs to individuals affected by the emergency/disaster. ESF #7 Resource Support Lead: Physical Plant Support: Business and Police Services Responsibility: (1) Provide incident logistics planning, management, and sustainment capability to the University. (2) Provide resource support (facility space, office equipment and supplies, contracting services, etc.). (3) Identify staging areas on campus to support emergency/disaster operations internally and externally if justified by conditions. ESF #8 Health and Medical Services Lead: Student Health Services Support: Athletic Training Room Staff, Loewenberg School of Nursing and Local Medical Community Responsibilities: (1) Provide on - campus guidance, prioritization, and coordination of resources involved in the triage, treatment, and medical evaluation of victims resulting from emergencies/disasters. (2) Establish liaisons with local medical community to augment University resources that reach or exceed their capabilities. ESF #9 Campus Search and Rescue Lead: Local Government Urban Search & Rescue Teams Support: Police Services Responsibility: Life - saving assistance, search and rescue operations. ESF #10 Hazardous Materials Response Local Government HazMat Teams Lead: Environmental, Health and Safety Support: Private Contractors Responsibility: Provide support in responding to actual or potential hazardous materials (chemical, biological, radiological, etc.) releases; facilitate environmental short and long - term cleanup. ESF #11 Emergency Food Assistance Lead: Residence Life and Dining Services Support: Commercial Vendors Responsibility: Identify and secure a food source, ensure delivery to affected area(s) during Level 3 emergencies or disasters. ESF #12 Campus Energy Systems Lead: Physical Plant Support: MLG&W Responsibility: Campus energy infrastructure assessment, repair, and utility restoration. ESF #13 Campus Safety and Security Lead: Police Services Support: Local Government Law Enforcement Agencies The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 28 Responsibility: (1) Provide for the orderly flow of on - campus vehicle and personnel traffic in and around areas affected by emergencies/disasters. (2) Initiate planning to ensure the security of areas affected by emergencies/disasters, including emergency personnel working in those areas and resources. Provide a safe environment for the campus community with additional emphasis on victims of the emergency/disaster. (3) Implement and/or assist with the evacuation of faculty, staff and students in affected areas. (4) Implement and/or assist with search and rescue efforts. ESF #14 Donations/Volunteers Lead: Accounting and Human Resources Support: Residence Life, First South Credit Union Responsibility: (1) Establish procedures and protocol for accepting donations (goods, cash, etc.) during emergencies/disasters by persons or organizations outside of the university. (2) Establish a mechanism for coordinating the deployment of personnel or organizations offering services on a voluntary basis to the University during or a fter an emergency/disaster. ESF #15 Recovery Lead: Emergency Preparedness and Physical Plant Support: Finance Responsibilities: (1) Capture and prepare data to provide for the delivery of local, state and federal assistance to the University. (2) Facilitate the development of long - range recovery and redevelopment plans; review and analyze the hazard mitigation program following an emergency/disaster. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 29 Campus Emergency ANNEX B DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY In an emergency and as the conditions warrant, an official proclamation by the University President or his/her designee will have the following effects and provide legal authority to: Promulgate orders and regulations necessary to provide for the protection of life and property, including closure of campus. Facilitate participation in mutual aid from State agencies, TBR campuses, or local jurisdictions. Activate cam pus personnel, logistical resources and campus facilities for response to an emergency. Ensure emergency response personnel are acting with authority to manage, control, and participate in activities outside the regular scope of employees' duties. Provide an appropriate procedure for listing emergency workers. Ensure appropriate coverage of Workers' Compensation, reimbursement for extraordinary expenses, and state and Federal disaster relief funds, where applicable. Implement documentation of damages, expenses, and recording of cost for reimbursement for extraordinary expenses and to seek federal disaster relief where appropriate. Conduct emergency operations without facing liabilities for performance, or failure of performance. University of Memphis will proclaim a formal CAMPUS STATE OF EMERGENCY when response to emergency conditions exceeds the capabilities, and additional assistance is required from other TBR campuses, or if local, State, and possibly Federal assistance is required. The University's formal declaration will be submitted to the Tennessee Board of Regents Office and the Shelby County Office of Emergency Preparedness. Requests for mutual aid will be initiated when additional material and/or personnel are required to resp ond to the emergency. Fire and law enforcement agencies will request or render mutual aid directly through established channels. (See UofM Policy UM1507). Local Emergency The emergency may include the City (Memphis, Millington, Collierville and/or Jackson depending on the location) as well as the campus. In that case the authority to proclaim a Local Emergency lays with the Office or in his/her absence, the City Council or designated alternate. The governing body must also proclaim the termination of the LOCAL EMERGENCY as soon as conditions warrant. A proclamation of LOCAL EMERGENCY provides the governing body the authority to: Provide mutual aid consistent with the provisions of local ordinances, resolutions, emergency plans, and agreements. Receive mutual aid from State agencies. In the absence of a State of Emergency, seek recovery of the cost of extraordinary services incurred in executing mutual aid agreements. Promulgate orders and regulations necessary to provide for protection of life and property. Promulgate orders and regulations imposing curfew. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 30 When the local resources are overwhelmed, the appropriate City will make an appeal to the appropriate County (Shelby or Madison). The County can proclaim a local area emergency that will include all jurisdictions. State of Emergency The Governor may declare a STATE OF EMERGENCY when conditions warrant and/or when the mayor or chief executive of a city or the chairman of the Board of Supervisors or county administrative officer, requests the proclamation. Alternately, the Governor may proclaim a STATE OF EMERGENCY in the absence of a request if it is determined that 1) conditions warrant a proclamation and 2) local authority is inadequate to cope with the emergency. The proclamation must be in writing, be well publicized, and filed with the Secretary of State as soon as possible following issuance. The proclamation is effective upon issuance. During a STATE OF EMERGENCY , the Governor has the authority to promulgate, issue, and enforce orders and regulations within the affected area and employ State personnel, equipment, facilities, and other resources to mitigate the effects of the emergency. A STATE OF EMERGENCY must be terminated as soon as conditions warrant. If the Governor requests and receives a Presidential declaration of an EMERGENCY or a MAJOR DISASTER under Public Law 93 - 288 (Federal Disaster Relief Act of 1974), he/she will appoint a State Coordinating Officer (SCO). A duly appointed Federal Coordinating Officer and the SCO will coordinate and control State and Federal efforts in support of City and County operations. Procedures for Declaring a Campus State of Emergency As leader of the CMT Policy Group, ultimate authority to declare a campus state of emergency rests with the University President or his/her designee as follows: a. The Director of Public Safety shall immediately consult with the President or his/her designee regarding the emergency and determine whether or not a campus - wide state of emergency exists. During the period of any major campus emergency Police Services will immediately put into effect the appropriate procedures necessary in order to meet the emergency, safeguard people and property, and maintain educational facilities, as outlined in Crisis Management Plan. b. When it is determined that a campus - wide state of emergency exists, only registered students, faculty, staff and affiliates (i.e., persons required by employment) are authorized to be on the Campus. Those who cannot present proper identification showing their legitimate business on campus will be required to leave immediately. c. In addition, only those faculty and staff members who have been assigned emergency resource du ties or issued emergency credentials by Police Services will be allowed to enter the immediate disaster site. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 31 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan ANNEX C CRISIS COMMUNICATIONS PLAN I. Purpose This plan provides guidelines for communicating within the university, and from the university to the media and the public, in the event of an emergency or crisis. Disasters, emergencies and crises disrupt the university's normal activities and may require activation of the UofM Crisis Management Plan ( ).This Crisis Communications Plan describes the role of Communications, Public Relations and Marketing in communica ting vital information to members of the UofM community and the public. This plan is to be flexibly used with emergency decision - making procedures of the university. Elements should be tested in conjunction with campus - wide emergency drills and exercises. Appendices should be checked for accuracy and completeness on a bi - annual basis. II. Objectives 1. Determining whether the situation requires invoking this plan. 2. Assembling a Crisis Communications Team to recommend responses. 3. Implementing immediate actions to: a. Identify key constituencies who need to be informed. b. Communicate facts about the situation and minimize rumors. 4. Restore and/or maintain order and confidence in the safety and operation of the University. III. Assumptions 1. Often the only information the public receives about an emergency is via the media, therefore media relations is an essential element of the overall crisis management plan. 2. An emergency is likely to draw more attention to the University than many stories, because it is much more sensitive in nature. Therefore, accuracy, completeness and truthfulness in the information released about an emergency are essential. IV. Procedures 1. Decision - Making: Because communication is extremely important in the response to a crisis situation, the Vice President for Communications, Public Relations and Marketing or his/her designee* must be involved at the highest level of decision - making in response to a University crisis. In addition, the Vice President must, in conjunction with the President (or the designee), be the final arbiter of information disseminated from the University about the crisis. 2. Spokesperson: Generally, this responsibility is assigned to the Vice President for Communications , Public Relations and Marketing. (On occasion, it may be advisable to have the President speak, or a subject matter expert in a particular field to address an issue within his/her area of expertise.) 3. Access: The Vice President for Communications, Public Relations and Marketing must have unimpeded access to all individuals with pertinent information about the crisis. All persons with critical knowledge of the crisis must have unimpeded access to the VP. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 32 4. Notifying Key Constituencies: The Crisis Communications Team will determine which groups need to be informed first. It is important to keep in mind that people will seek and believe other sources of information (e.g., news reports, rumors, word of mouth) in the absence of official comm unication. Effective communication will help quell rumors, maintain morale and ensure public safety. Appendix I to the Crisis Communication Plan contains a description of the communication tools, their possible applications in a crisis, and who can operate those tools. Key constituencies include: Students Faculty Staff Parents of students Tennessee Board of Regents Public officials Governor, Legislators, Mayors Alumni Neighbors General Public News Media Major Donors 5. Joint Information Center (JIC): In addition to the UofM Emergency Operations Center (addressed in the Basic Plan section), there must also be a JIC, where: the Vice President for Communications, Public Relations and Marketing and his/her staff operate public information officers from other responding agencies or campuses may operate information is compiled from various sources and checked for accuracy media releases are prepared for dissemination the news media may call for information a. The VP for Communications, Public Relations and Marketing will be in charge of the JIC b. Communications, Public Relations and Marketing will provide staffing requirements (Appendix B contains staff contact information) c. The JIC should be set up at a convenient location that: is easily accessible by foot or vehicular traffic, and has parking sufficient to accommodate news media vehicles, including their large remote - broadcast vans is isolated from the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) to prevent uninvited media intrusion into that facility d. The JIC should also be convenient to: the President Crisis Management Team members appropriate emergency personnel e. The JIC will operate on a 24 - hour basis for the duration of the crisis, until the President declares an all clear and normal University operations have resumed. At that time, members of Communication Services can resume a normal duty status. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 33 f. The JIC must be equipped with items and supplies sufficient to handle a pressing workload; examples of such items include: (Communication Services responsibility) land - line telephones, fax machines, mobile telephones, computers (with email and Internet capability), and printers (with paper) g. Alternate communications capability is also necessary at the JIC, including: manual typewriters, two - way radios, laptop computers with extra batteries and wireless capability h. Ideally, portable power - generating equipment will be available to supply alternative power if necessary. (Physical Plant and Information Technology will supply such equipment, beyond the normal amount already possessed by the Communication Services office.) i. At least two (2) designated telephone should be established to offer pre - recorded messages to callers, giving them updates on the crisis, and methods the Un iversity is employing to deal with the situation, e.g., temporary housing, revised class schedules, etc. To control rumors and inaccurate information, hotlines will be established and publicized to the University community, media sources, and general public as part of crisis management planning for the University Generally, hotlines will be located at the JIC to provide for easy and frequent message updates j. All other switchboard operators or persons receiving calls regarding the crisis should refrain from commenting and immediately forward those calls to the JIC. k. The JIC will provide crisis status updates to the campus community using all available technology, including: telephone TigerText Social Media sites (Facebook, Twitter) Alertus email the Unive main Web page the closed - circuit television system hotline messages broadcasts on WUMR (the campus radio station) and the Daily Helmsman (Planning for the use of these means of communication assumes that some are functional during a crisis.) l. Personnel who should be present at media briefings include: the VP for Communications, Public Relations and Marketing and his/her staff the President any other University personnel whose knowledge of the situation or background expertise might be helpful m. The VP for Communications, Public Relations and Marketing will keep his/her JIC staff members briefed continually on developments related to the crisis. He/she will also keep the Crisis Management Team - Policy Group apprised of information that may come from the Operations Group and, from outside the campus. The flow of information to and from all parties involved in the crisis response is essential to the success of that response. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 34 6. Fact sheet: As soon as possible after the incident, a fact sheet will be prepared to supplement communication with key constituencies and information provided to reporters by the spokespersons. It will be approved by the VP and checked for accuracy by those with a direct knowledge of the crisis. Fact sheets released publicly or posted to the Internet must be time stamped and updated as information changes. 7. Alerting the media: The Vice President is responsible for deciding the best methods of reaching appropriate media outlets. Communication with the media must occur frequently, as new information is known. Information from media briefings may be captured in audio and/or video and posted to the Internet, along with updated fact sheets. Efforts will be made to monitor news coverage in key media outlets and correct significant inaccuracies, either in those media outlets themselves or in material distributed by the university. In general, the university will welcome reporters and allow them as much access as public safety, security, and good taste permit. Comm unication Services staff will facilitate access to key knowledgeable individuals and respond quickly to as many requests as possible. Communication must occur early and often but be confined to the facts. All information must be conveyed with an eye toward what will be most important to various publics. The JIC will maintain a current contact list of all the news media that would likely cover a crisis situation on campus. The JIC will also maintain a list of all public relations officials at other institutions and public and private agencies that may become involved with the crisis including: hospitals, fire and police departments, other colleges and universities, the Red Cross, MATA, railroads, airlines, the Poison Center, the National Weather Service, the Center for Earthquake Research and Information, city and county governments, state and federal agencies and others. V. Plan Testing and Validation This plan shall be updated and tested at least once a year. Full activation of the plan will be incorporated into the UofM annual Emergency Operations Center disaster exercise. Responsibility for updating the Crisis Communications Plan rests with the Vice President for Communications, Public Relations and Marketing. Vl. After - action Report/Review (AAR) No later than one week following a crisis, the VP for Communications, Public Relations and Marketing will convene his/her staff for a review of lessons learned. This AAR may be used to provide summary information to a more comprehensive campus - wide AAR coordinated through UofM Emergency Preparedness Coordinator. Attachments Appendix 1: Crisis and Mass Communications Tools Appendix 2: Communications Services personnel contact information The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 35 Crisis Communications Plan APPENDIX I Crisis and Mass Communication Tools It is important to note in a crisis situation that no single medium will suffice to notify all constituencies. A combination of communication resources will need to be employed to reach the widest number of people as quickly as possible. Depending on the particulars of the situation, some combination of the tools listed below may be employed. Communication Tool Application Characteristics UofM Website Postings * UofM Homepage * Personal Safety Alerts * UofM Drive (Spectrum) Social Media Postings UofM Emergency Website UofM Information Hotline * 678 - 0888 Messages posted on websites Messages posted on sites Back - up basic website to post critical information Messages recorded on official UofM hotline * Great source of information if UofM community knows where to check * Does not provide active notification * UofM Communications Services staff to post information * Power and internet connectivity dependent * Provides level of redundancy * Great source of information if UofM community knows where to check * Does not provide active notification * UofM Communication Services staff to post information TigerText Alertus Official information sent via SMS text messages to mobile devices Activates full - screen pop - up alerts on network computers * Provides active notification to subscribers (opt - in) to TigerText * Used to disseminate official information during emergencies or crisis situations that may disrupt UofM normal operations or threaten the health or safety of the campus community * Is scalable to target campus or primary audience Mass Warning System * Warning sirens * interior speakers Siren plus canned or active messages disseminated by exterior or interior speaker systems to all recipients on campus * Provides active notification * Is not scalable to targeted audiences * Provides instant audible warning of an emergency or crisis * Will require recipients to obtain additional information from other sources Bulk Email Safe and Sound Email messages to entire campus or large scale recipient list A website for letting the University know that you are safe during or after an emergency * Provides active notification * May take an extended period for complete delivery depending on audience and priority of event * People may not check email on a regular basis * Students may not use UofM email as their primary address Virtual Private Network (VPN) Off - campus access to sensitive or restricted University data *Enhances business continuity procedures if circumstances require the University to close and staff to work from home or another location. Amateur Radio (HAM) Regional and national communication capabilities through amateur networks * Provides access to external responders and sources of information * Is not an active notification system for the campus community WUMR Radio Station Campus and regional broadcasting capabilities *Provides essential information to surrounding communities *An active notification source for the University The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 36 APPENDIX II Crisis Communications Plan The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 37 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan ANNEX D EMERGENCY EVACUATIONS Building Evacuations: Responsibilities of All Faculty, Staff & Students - learn locations of exit routes, exit stairwells and areas of rescue in any buildings your routinely use - know the location and operation of the fire alarm system - know emergency phone numbers and keep them posted - participate in all fire drills and take them seriously treat every alarm as an actual emergency - learn in advance the needs of anyone for whom you are responsible who may need assistance during an emergency - know where the pre-designated rally and assembly points are located - if you are the first to notice an emergency, immediately call 9-1 -1. Evacuation Procedures 1.Building evacuations will occur when announced over the campus emergency warning system and/or upon notification by Police Services. 2.When the building evacuation alarm is activated during an emergency, leave by the nearest marked exit and alert others to do the same. DO NOT USE THE ELEVATOR IN CASES OFFIRE AND/OR EARTHQUAKE! USE STAIRWAY. 3.When evacuating your building or work area: - Stay calm; do not rush and do not panic. - Safely stop your work. If there is time , turn off personal computers to protect university data from possible damage; forward phones. - Gather your personal belongings if it is safe to do so. (Reminder: take prescription medications out with you if at all possible; it may be hours before you are allowed back in the building.) - If safe to do so , close your office door and window, but do not lock them. The last person to leave an office, classroom, or lab will close and lock the door behind them. - Use the nearest safe stairs and proceed to the nearest exit. - Be alert for individuals with disabilities or injuries who may need assistance. However, under no circumstances should an individual risk or jeopardize his/her personal safety in an attempt to rescue another person. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 38 4.Once outside proceed to a pre-identified for the affected building and wait for a head count. Keep streets, fire lanes, hydrant areas and walkways clear for emergency vehicles and personnel. IMPORTANT: Wait for further instructions from emergency responders. Do not reoccupy the building until directed to do so. 5.Upon notification by responding external public agencies that the emergency is contained and that any evacuated buildings are suitable for re-occupancy, the Director of Public Safety, inconsultation with appropriate authorities, shall determine when occupants will be allowed tore-enter those buildings. Appropriate authorities may include, but not be limited to, Assistant Vice President for Physical Plant, Director of Environmental Health and Safety, and a representative from Employee Safety and Health, or their designees. Occupants shall not beallowed to re-enter a building where there is visible smoke; in such situations, the fire department and/or Physical Plant will be requested to ventilate the structure prior to re- occupancy. Campus Evacuations: 1.Evacuation of all or part of the campus grounds will be announced by the campus emergency warning system and/or Police Services officials, as described. 2.All persons (students, faculty and staff) are to IMMEDIATELY vacate the site in question and relocate to another part of the campus grounds or as directed. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 39 Assembly Area Locations Assembly Area Building Identifiers Area A EA, ES, ET, ML, HC, MC, BR Area B FEC, ACB, TH, MU, CFA Area C RT, FCB, FAB, FIT Area D PSY, PA, DH, MJ, AB, Heating & Cooling, HB Are E PAN, SH, RH Area F JO, JOC, AD, MY, MI, CL, EH, UC, SM Area G MN, HH, ROB, SC, RTH, FH, BS, LS, BH, CS, PG2 Area H JN, JWB, WT, PT Area I PS, REC, FRF, SO, NH, AC Area J AOB, BMJ Area K Carpenter, Daycare, EQ 1-5 Area L WS, HI, LIP, LSA Area AA Buildings 92, 502, 503, 516, 555 Area BB Buildings 507, 508, 525, 529, 53 0, 531, 532, 533, 535, 536, Defense Contract Audit Institute , CHB Area CC Buildings 101 108, 110, 122 137, 512 515, 534, Student Family Housing Complex Area DD Buildings 156 (Athletic Training Facility), 517, 748, Nat Buring Stadium ,Football Practice Field The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 40 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 41 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 42 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 43 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 44 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 45 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 46 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 47 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 48 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 49 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 50 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 51 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 52 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 53 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 54 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 55 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 56 INTENTIONAL BLANK PAGE The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 57 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan ANNEX E EVACUATION POLICY FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES General Guidelines | Blindness or Visual Impairment | Deafness or Hearing Loss | Mobility Impairment All University of Memphis students, faculty and staff are responsible for familiarizing themselves with the emergency information regarding their wo rk areas, classrooms, and/or living areas. This includes emergency evacuation plans comprising: exits, alternate routes of egress, the location of pull alarm stations, portable fire extinguishers and respective Assembly Areas (a location for evacuees to assemble upon exiting their building). The following guidelines are proposed for adoption by the University of Memphis to help evacuate people with physical disabilities. Singularly evacuating a person with a disability or injury is the last resort . Consider your options and the risks of injuring yourself and others in an evacuation attempt. Do not make an emergency situation worse. Evacuation is difficult and uncomfortable for both the rescuers and the people being assisted. Some people have conditions that can be aggravated or triggered if they are moved incorrectly. Remember that environmental conditions (smoke, debris, loss of electricity) will complicate evacuation efforts. The following guidelines are general and may not apply in every circumstance. Occupants should be invited to volunteer ahead of time to assist persons with disabilities in an emergency. If a volunteer is not available, identify someone to assist who is willing to accept the responsibility. * Volunteers should obtain evacuation training for certain types of lifting techniques . Two or more trained volunteers, if available, should conduct the evacuation. DO NOT evacuate persons in their wheelchairs. This is standard practice to ensure the safety of persons with disabilities and volunteers. Wheelchairs will be evacuated later if possible. Always ASK someone with a disability how you can help BEFORE attempting any rescue technique or giving assistance. Ask how they can best be assisted or moved, and whether there are any special considerations or items that need to come with them. Before attempting an evacuation, volunteers and the people being assisted should discuss how any lifting will be done and where they are going. Proper lifting techniques (e.g. bending the knees, keeping the back straight, holding the person close before lifting, and using leg muscles to lift) should be used to avoid injury to rescuers' backs. Ask permission of the evacuee if an evacuation chair or similar device is being considered as an a id in an evacuation. When using such devices, make sure the person is secured properly. Be careful on stairs and rest at landings if necessary. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 58 Certain lifts may need to be modified depending on the person's disabilities. DO NOT use elevators, unless authorized to do so by police or fire personnel. Elevators could fail during a fire. If the situation is life threatening, call Police Services at 678 - HELP (4357). Check on people with disabilities during an evacuation. A "buddy system", where persons with disabilities pre - identify volunteers (co - workers/roommates) to alert them and assist them in an emergency, is a good method. Attempt a rescue evacuation ONLY if you have had rescue training or the person is in immediate danger and cannot wait for professional assistance (Police Services). If a power outage occurs during the day and persons with disabilities choose to wait in the building for electricity to be restored, they can move near a window where there is natural light and access to a working telephone. During regular building hours, Building Coordinators, Floor Marshals, etc. (or individuals with similar responsibilities) should be notified so they can advise emergency personnel. If people would like to leave and an evacuation ha s been ordered, or if the outage occurs at night, call Police Services at 678 - HELP (4357) from a campus telephone to request evacuation assistance. Some multi - button campus telephones may not operate in a power outage, but single - line telephones are likely to function. * In the event of a major disaster, local first responders (Police, Fire, Emergency Medical Personnel) may not arrive for several hours until higher priority conditions are resolved. Under these circumstances, CERT members and other volunteers may/will need to augment University resources and provide initial assistance. Blindness or Visual Impairment Give verbal instructions to advise about the safest route or direction using compass directions, estimated distances, and directional terms. DO NOT grasp a visually arm. Ask if he or she would like to hold onto your arm as you exit, especially if there is debris or a crowd. Give other verbal instructions or information (i.e. elevators cannot be used). Deafness or Hearing Impairment Get the attention of a person with a hearing impairment by touch and eye contact. Clearly state the problem. Gestures and pointing are helpful, but be prepared to write a brief statement if the person does not seem to understand. Offer visual instructions to advise of safest route or direction by pointing toward exits or evacuation maps. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 59 Mobility Impairment It may be necessary to help clear the exit route of debris (if possible) so that the person with a disability can move out or to a safer area. If people with mobility impairments cannot exit, they should move to a safer area, e.g., most enclosed stairwells, an office with the door shut which is a good distance from the hazard If you do not know the safe areas in your buil ding, call Police Services at 678 - HELP (4357). Notify emergency responders immediately about any people remaining in the building and their locations. Police or fire personnel will decide whether people are safe where they are and will evacuate them as necessary. The responding Fire Department may determine that it is safe to override the rule against using elevators. If people are in immediate danger and cannot be moved to a safe area to wait for assistance, it may be necessary to evacuate them using an evacuation chair or a carry technique. Additional emergency evacuation information for persons with physical disabilities may be found on the Student Disability Services website. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 60 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan ANNEX F SHELTER IN PLACE Preparing to Stay or Go: Depending on your circumstances and the type of emergency, the first important decision is whether you stay put or get away. You should understand and plan for both possibilities. Use common sense and available information, including what you are learning here, to determine if there is immediate danger. In any emergency, local authorities may or may not immediately be able to provide information on what is happening and what you should do. Use available information to assess the situation. If you see large amounts of debris in the air, or if local authorities say the air is badly contaminated, you may want to "shelter - in - place." However, you should watch TV, listen to the radio, or check the Internet often for information or official instructions as it becomes avai lable. If you are specifically told to evacuate or seek medical treatment, do so immediately . What Shelter - in - Place Means: One of the instructions you may be given in an emergency where hazardous materials may have been released into the atmosphere is to shelter - in - place. This is a precaution aimed to keep you safe while remaining indoors. (This is not the same thing as going to a shelter in case of a storm.) Shelter - in - place means selecting a small, interior room, with no or few windows, and taking refuge there. It does not mean sealing off your entire home or office building. If you are told to shelter - in - place, follow the instructions provided in this Annex. Why You Might Need to Shelter - in - Place : Chemical, biological, or radiological contaminants may be released accidentally or intentionally into the environment. Should this occur, University emergency personnel will provide information by emergency warning sirens, TigerText, telephone, email, radio (WUMR) and television on how to protect yourself. The important thing is for you to follow instructions of University authorities and know what to do if they advise you to shelter - in - place. At the University: Activate the crisis management plan. Follow reverse evacuation procedures to bring stu dents, faculty, and staff indoors. If there are visitors in the building, provide for their safety by asking them to stay not leave. When authorities provide directions to shelter - in - place, they want everyone to take those steps now, where they are, and not drive or walk outdoors. Provide for answering telephone inquiries from concerned parents by having at least one telephone with the listed telephone number available in a room selected to provide shelter for the person designated to answer these calls. This room should also be sealed. There should be a way to communicate among all rooms where people are sheltering - in - place on the campus. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 61 Ideally, provide a mechanism for authorities to make announcements over the emergency public address system from the room where they take shelter. Encourage students to call a parent or guardian to let them know they have been asked to remain on campus until further notice, and they are safe. Change the Safety Hotline recording to indicate that the campus is closed; students and staff are remaining in the building until authorities advise that it is safe to leave. Provide directions to close and lock all windows, exterior doors, and any other openings to the outside. If you are told there is danger of explosion, direct that window shades, blinds, or curtains be closed. Physical Plant staff should turn off all fans, heating and air conditioning systems. Some systems automatically provide for exchange of inside air with outside air these systems, in particular, need to be turned off, sealed, or disabled. Gather essential disaster supplies, such as nonperishable food, bottled water, battery - powered radios, first aid supplies, flashlights, batteries, duct tape, plastic sheeting, and plastic garbage bags. Select interior room(s) above the ground floor, with the fewest windows or vents. The room(s) should have adequate space for everyone to be able to sit in. Avoid overcrowding by selecting several rooms if necessary. Classrooms may be used if there are no windows or the windows are sealed and cannot be opened. Large storage closets, utility rooms, meeting rooms, and even a gymnasium without exterior windows will also work well. It is ideal to have a hard - wired telephone in the room(s) you select. Call emergency contacts and have the phone available if you need to report a life - threatening condition. Cellular telephone equipment may be overwhelmed or damaged during an emergency. Bring everyone into the room. Shut and lock the door. Use duct tape and plastic sheeting (heavier than food wrap) to seal all cracks around the door(s) and any vents into the room. Write down the names of everyone in the room, and call your designated Building Coordinator to report who is in the room with you. Listen for an official announcement from University officials via the public address system, and stay where you are until you are told all is safe or you are told to evacuate. Local officials may call for evacuation in specific areas at greatest risk on or near the campus community. Help others when possible, especially the physically disabled. At Your Residence : Close and lock all windows and exterior doors. If you are told there is danger of explosion, close the window shades, blinds, or curtains. Turn off all fans, heating and air conditioning systems. Close the fireplace damper . Get your disaster supplies kit and make sure the radio is working. Go to an interior room without windows that is above ground level. In the case of a chemical threat, an aboveground location is preferable because some chemicals are heavier than air, and may seep into basements even if the windows are closed. Bring your pets with you, and be sure to bring additional food and water supplies for them. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 62 It is ideal to have a hard - wired telephone available in the room you select should you need to report a life - threatening condition. Cellular telephone equipment may be overwhelmed or damaged during an emergency. Use duct tape and plastic sheeting (heavier than food wrap) to seal all cracks around the door and any vents into the room. Keep listening to your radio or television until you are told all is safe or you are told to evacuate. Local/University officials may call for evacuation in specific areas at greatest risk in your community. In Your Vehicle: If you are driving a vehicle and hear advice to - in - on the radio, take these steps: If you are very close to home, your office, or a public building, go there immediately and go inside. Follow the shelter - in - place recommendations for the place you pick described above. If you are unable to get to a home or building quickly and safely, then pull over to the side of the road. Stop your vehicle in the safest place possible. If it is sunny outside, it is preferable to stop under a bridge or in a shady spot, to avoid being overheated. Turn off the engine. Close windows and vents . If possible, seal the heating/air conditioning vents with duct tape. Listen to the radio regularly for updated advice and instructions. Stay where you are until you are told it is safe to get back on the road. Be aware that some roads may be closed or traffic detoured. Follow the directions of law enforcement officials. University and local officials on the scene are the best source of information for your particular situation. Following their instructions during and after emergencies regarding sheltering, food, water, and clean - up methods is your safest choice. Remember that instructions to shelter - in - place are usually provided for durations of a few hours, not days or weeks. There is little danger that the room in which you are taking shelter will run out of oxygen and you will suffocate. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 63 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan ANNEX G EMERGENCY CLOSING Policy Statement: It is the policy of the University to remain open to ensure continuity of service to students, faculty, staff and the public. However, during inclement weather or other emergency conditions (e.g. natural disasters, major utility failure, or other reasons), the safety of students, faculty, staff, and visitors will remain the primary consideration. In accordance with Tennessee Board of Regents policy, the President of the University or their designee may cancel classes and/or close offices at the University due to inclement weather or other emergencies. Purpose: To establish the protocol, authorities and process for university closures when conditions are deemed unsafe. Definitions: Campus Closure University classes are suspended, non - emergency crucial offices are closed, and activities scheduled to take place on campus are cancelled or deferred. Emergency Crucial Offices Those offices whose duties and responsibilities are essential to ensuring life safety services and/or critical operations of the University during an emergency. Emergency Crucial Positions Those positions whose duties and responsibilities are essential to ensuring life safety services and/or critical operations of the University during an emergency. Campus refers to Main Campus (including Campus and Lipman Schools), Park Avenue Campus, Lambuth Campus, Millington Center, Collierville Center, Meeman Biological Center, Chucalissa Museum and Indian Village, and the Downtown Law School and any other property owned or controlled by the University. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 64 Special Information Telephone Line 901 - 678 - 0888; provides information on the current operational status of The University of Memphis. Closing Options: Closing options are predefined to facilitate decision making, information sharing and to minimize disruption. The options include: Closed all day. Delayed opening -- University operations will begin at a designated time; classes that begin prior to that time will not meet. Early closing University operations will be closed at some point during the day; classes that begin after closing will not meet. Cancellation of evening acti vities University operations will cease at a designated time; activities that begin at or after that time will not meet. Cancellation of off - campus classes and activities at a specific site University operations located at a specified off campus site will cease. Localized and Temporary Closing Close a building or location because conditions may make learning and working conditions inadvisable for a limited period of time. These options are offered as a guide only; the President is not bound to choose from among them. The cancellation of off - campus classes only may become necessary when the host institution closes or alters its schedule and the University of Memphis does not. In these cases, the University will adhere to the closing decision made by the host institution, with exceptions made by the Vice Provost for Extended Programs. Notification: If the President or designee alters the schedule or opts to close the campus, s/he will notify the University's Vice President of Communications, Marketing and Public Relations or designee. The Vice President of Communications, Marketing and Public Relations or designee will issue information related to campus closure and subsequent reopening to the campus community and the public using some or all of the following means, depending on circumstances: University of Memphis special information line: 901 - 678 - 0888 University of Memphis main web page ( ) The local broadcast news media WUMR (FM 91.7) Campus email system Campus TigerText system Social Media sites (Facebook, Twitter) Outdoor Warning System Alertus network notification system The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 65 The Office of the President or designee will notify the Provost, each Vice President and Athletic Director, who will in turn notify their department/unit heads. Each division and department is responsible for developing, maintaining and initiating an internal communication mechanism (e.g., phone trees) for notifying faculty and staff within th eir areas. Upon notification of a closing, non - university employers who are operating on University property and University employees, except those who occupy positions identified as will be directed to (a) leave campus if they are already present, (b) not report to campus, or (c) shelter in place. Persons other than Emergency Crucial Employees who enter campus during a period of closing do so at their own risk. Emergency Crucial Positions: Certain positions are considered crucial to the operation of the University even when the University is closed. Each department/unit head shall identify Emergency Crucial positions in the Business Continuity Plan for the department. These plans shall be reviewed and updated annually, and employ ees in those positions are to be informed of their designation by their department/unit head. The employees in Emergency Crucial positions are to be available to report to work during inclement weather or other emergency, if required. Compensation during Closings: Emergency Crucial non - exempt employees will be paid as follows: Regular pay for the number of hours they would have worked, plus Additional pay for the number of hours worked as an Emergency Crucial employee. These hours should be reported as straight time overtime, except that the number of hours actually worked over forty (40) during a work week should be reported as premium overtime. Emergency Crucial exempt employees will receive regular pay for working on the crucial day. Earned time off will not be credited to the annual leave balance; it should be separately monitored by the department head. This time is not payable as terminal leave and should be taken within the fiscal year it is granted. When the University is closed, non - emergency crucial employees will normally receive regular pay for the number of hours they would have worked. These hours should be reported as The University will not charge annual leave balances for these paid hours. Employees who had scheduled leave before the decision to close was announced should report Sick Leave or Annual Leave, as appropriate. If an employee chooses to leave work before the official closing time, the employee must report Annual Leave (or Leave Without Pay, if no annual leave) for the period between leaving work and the official closing time. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 66 Personal Safety: During inclement weather or other emergency, students and employees are urged to exercise discretion and sound judgment regarding travel since safe transportation to and from the campus depends on many factors, such as distance and road conditions. When the University is open, supervisors should instruct employees to use their own judgment in deciding whether they can get to and from work safely during inclement weather or other emergency. In these cases, employees may take annual leave during the time missed. If an employee does not have accrued annual leave, leave without pay should be reported. States of Emergency: States of emergency may be declared by the President of the University of Memphis, head officials of the City of Memphis, Shelby County, Tennessee Board of Regents or the State of Tennessee. A state of emergency is operationalized by accompanying executive orders that declare a curfew, prohibit travel, control traffic, designate areas as emergency shelters, and close public places of assembly. States of emergency do not mean that roads are closed, unless so stated. Even if roads are closed, emergency crucial employees s hould report, but only if they are able to travel safely between home and work. UM1531 - Issued: January 4, 2011 supersedes policy number 1:2A:16:01 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 67 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan ANNEX H SUSPICIOUS MAIL Mail Services personnel follow the U.S. Postal Service guidelines with regard to handling mail. If a suspicious package or envelope is spotted in the mailroom by mailroom personnel, the item is isolated and Police Services notified at 678 - HELP (4357). It is possible th at a suspicious piece of mail or a package may be delivered directly to a department by a delivery service, or not be noticed by Mail Services during sorting processes. It is critical that all individuals that handle mail be diligent what does not look suspicious to Mail Services might be suspicious to a person in the receiving department. If you receive a suspicious letter or package: 1. Do not try to open the package. If there is spilled material, do not try to clean it up and do not smell, touch or taste the material. 2. Do not shake or bump the package or letter. 3. Isolate the package, placing it in a sealable plastic bag, if available. 4. Calmly alert others in the immediate area and leave the area, closing the door behind you. 5. Wash hands and exposed skin vigorously with soap and flowing water for at least 20 seconds. Antibacterial soaps that do not require water are not effective for removing anthrax or other threatening materials. 6. Call Police Services at 911 or 678 - HELP (4357) and give them your exact location. 7. Wait for Police Services to respond. Do not leave the building unless instructed to do so by Police Services personnel. Identifying Suspicious Packages and Envelopes Some characteristics of suspicious packages and envelopes include the following: - Inappropriate or unusual labeling - Excessive postage - Handwritten or poorly typed addresses - Misspellings of common words - Strange return address or no return address - Incorrect titles or title without a name - Not addressed to a specific person - Marked with restrictions, such as or x - - Marked with any threatening language - Postmarked from a city or state that does not match the return address The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 68 Appearance - Powdery substance felt through or appearing on the package or envelope - Oily stains, discolorations, or odor - Lopsided or uneven envelope - Excessive packaging material such as masking tape, string, etc. Other suspicious signs - Excessive weight - Ticking sound - Protruding wires or aluminum foil If a package or envelope appears suspicious, DO NOT OPEN IT. Pranks and Hoaxes Pranks or hoaxes involving false threats of agents of terror, including Anthrax or Ricin, disrupt lives, create serious safety concerns, and tax valuable University and community resources. They create illegitimate alarm in a time of legitimate concern. The University and law enforcement authorities take all such actions very seriously. The University has adopted a "zero tolerance" policy and will aggressively investiga te any such incidents. Any individual found responsible for such acts will be subject to University disciplinary action, up to and including separation from the University, and prosecution under State and Federal law. For More Information Contact Environmental Health and Safety at 678-4672/2044/2470 FBI Suspicious Mail Advisory about Anthrax Information about Ricin The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 69 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan ANNEX I Infectious Diseases Preparedness and Response Plan Introduction There are many types of infectious disease that could potentially cause the University to activate its CMP in order to manage an outbreak. A worldwide outbreak could overwhelm health and medical capabilities globally. Therefore, the University must be prepared to manage the impact of such an outbreak, to maintain the safety of the University community, and to continue its operational functions as best as is possible. The impact of a significant outbreak will likely be felt on the University of Memphis (UofM) campus, as well as across the nation. This Annex provides a summary statement of the UofM preparedness and response activities to mitigate campus-wide impact. Sub Section I.1, Pandemic Flu, summarizes the overall response, and the steps in this section should be applied to all infectious disease situations where it applies. I.1 Pandemic Flu We speak of a when a brand new strain of flu virus appears for which there is low human immunity and high human- to-human contagiousness. Normally, forms of flu change only a little from year to year minor mutations of the previous variety of flu virus. Humans infected during a recent flu season retain an immunity, because their immune systems the slightly changed new flu strain and attack invading viruses, killing them. Influenza Virus A sometimes recombines (or mutates through a process called antigen shift ) into a form that is a sudden, large change of form. If a human population has not recently experienced a similar form, its immune systems do not recognize the virus, do not attack, and the virus enters the body successfully and begins its spread. When immunity is low within a population, the disease spreads rapidly. If it spreads over a wide portion of the globe, we call this episode of flu a To prepare for the most severe health scenario to affect the campus community -that of a highly infectious and fatal virus entering the United States - the plan developed for the University includes as a possible alternative, that the campus may need to suspend in-person classes and close the campus for some number of weeks or months until the rate of transmission of the virus begins to reasonably subside. Given the ease in which seasonal viruses spread each year among the population, the academic environment of campus classrooms naturally lend themselves to putting students, staff and others at risk of infection. The Guidance for College and Universities found within the Implementation Plan for the National Strategy for Pandemic Influenza and other health sources recommend taking steps toward social The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 70 distancing if the spread of the disease reaches certain levels. A social distancing policy suspends in-person classes and other public gatherings and places limits on campus business to help prevent the person- to-person spread of influenza. If a severe influenza pandemic were to occur at the University , we could institute a social distancing policy for as much as 8-12 weeks. In addition, the University may be directed by local, state or federal authorities to close the campus regardless of the institution's interest in doing otherwise. The suspension of all in-person classes and the closing of all residence halls would be very disruptive for students wishing to attain Bachelors' degrees in four years or to complete graduate programs in a timely manner. Therefore, all of the competing interests must be taken into account when making such a decision. Nevertheless, the UofM Pandemic Preparedness and Response Plan will include criteria for decisions on issues such as the suspension of in-person classes, closing of dormitories and dispersal of students to their homes. Different UofM locations will involve varying degrees of risk in a pandemic and there will be varying scopes for staying in operation while reducing the hazard. The decision to close the University will be made by the Policy Group at the recommendation of the Crisis Management Team. It will be based upon a combination of the following decision criteria/factors and will occur at some point during Level 2 of the UofM Pandemic Preparedness and Response Plan : World Health Organization declaration of Phase 6 - Pandemic period: Increased and sustained transmission in the general U.S. population Confirmation of a high rate of infectivity, morbidity (rate of infection) and/or mortality (death rate) Rate/speed of disease spreading Local or state public health recommendations to curtail/cancel public activities incounty or stateFalling class attendance, students leaving campus Rising employee absenteeism Other regional schools/school systems closing Transportation systems closing/curtailing interstate travel Cases in the Mid -South area occurring early versus late in the overall U.S. experience with the unfolding pandemic During the period when classes are suspended, most campus academic, administrative and support operations will be closed. Minimal utilities will be supplied to buildings, but all routine, normal daily housekeeping and maintenance activities will cease until such a time when the re-opening of campus buildings has been announced by the Policy Group. Buildings will be secured in a way to prevent re-entry by all but approved emergency crucial personnel. Most research activities that depend upon campus facilities will need to The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 71 be suspended as well when all other routine building services end. Police, safety and facilities staff, and a small number of other emergency crucial personnel will be needed to maintain safe, secure and hazard-free buildings. However, the way in which these emergency crucial personnel conduct themselves while on campus will be done in a manner to minimize exposure to others who may be carrying the virus. Assumptions Underlying the Pandemic Plan of Action The institution's response to the pandemic will be managed by the Crisis Management Team (CMT) and others as indicated. It will meet weekly, daily, or more than daily asevents and issues unfold. A location will be determined and expanded opportunities for conference call meetings have been established when large group meetings are no longer advisable or possible. Officials will also monitor the information available via the Internet and other sources. Through all the stages of response, the Medical Director of Student Health Services, will be the primary contact with the City/Shelby County Health Department, Centers forDisease Control (CDC), World Health Organization (WHO), and State and Federal health officials. The Director of Public Safety, will maintain contact and coordinate with the local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies, and the Emergency Preparedness Coordinator will collaborate with local, state and federal emergency management agencies. The Director of Environmental Health and Safety, will coordinate with all departments and units of the University and oversee the implementation of Level 1.An outbreak could interrupt normal University functioning for a period of eight to twelve weeks. The University could implement social distancing measures by suspending in-person classes, closing the University and dispersing students to their homes or other off-campus locations. The University has existing communications resources that can be mobilized for quick response in the event of a pandemic emergency. Emergency crucial personnel may need to function from either remote or campus locations to maintain services. Options for limiting exposure of emergency crucial personnel to the virus might be beneficial. Staff may be requested to work multiple shifts and critical staff may need to be on campus to service critical campus systems. Some level of loss of emergency crucial personnel to illness or care for a loved one will require back up options for essential functions. Absenteeism attributable to illness, theneed to care for ill family members, and fear of infection may reach 40% with lower butstill significant absenteeism both before and after the peak (pandemicflu.gov). In addition, absenteeism may be affected by the closing of public schools, quarantines and other measures taken in the community. Those affiliated with the University, even if they are not employed or enrolled, will require information on the University's plans and implementation during the crisis. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 72 Parents and families, the surrounding community, governing bodies and elected officials will all require periodic updates. At all times, the health and safety of the campus community will be of paramount importance. This plan will apply to the initial outbreak, as wel l as subsequent waves of a pandemic and the recovery and re-opening. Continuity of Instruction We recommend that academic units receive academic continuity planning templates to help them consider these issues in the event of an 8-12-week class suspension on instruction: Identify essential functions (including, but not limited to, some research) that must continue Identify emergency crucial personnel to maintain these essential functions Alternative plans, i.e., distance learning Continuity of Business We recommend that business units continually update current business continuity plans, considering these issues in the event of an 8-12 -week limitation on business: Identify essential functions that must continue (including, but not limited to, Police, Utilities) Identify emergency crucial personnel to maintain these essential functions Alternative work plans, i.e., telecommuting Recovery of full business operations The University of Memp his has implemented a Virtual Private Network (VPN) to crea te a secure environment for accessing certain types of University data fr om off-campus locations. This technology is vitally important to maintain basic levels of operation identified in current business continuity plans. If you use a home computer, laptop, or othe r mobile device to access Internet Native Banner (INB ) or restricted University data, you will need to use the VPN. The VPN software, directions for loading and instructions are located at: As the disease progresses and becomes more widespread, the danger to the campus community will increase. The CMT will organize its planning according to the following levels. The progression of these levels may occur rapidly and may be altered due to the recommendations of county, state or federal authorities. These levels of response provide the basis upon which our pandemic influenza plan is organized. Each level is presented with specific actions that will occur in each of the identified areas of institutional response. A brief overview of these levels is provided here: The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 73 Level 1 This phase of the plan is always in place and continues until Level 2 is reached. It is a time for all communication plans to be finalized for any potential situation, and academic units to complete plans for research interruption, alternative instruction and class cancellation. Other administrative and student service units will finalize closure protocols and other necessary supplies and plan for their distribution. Level 2 At Level 2, the CMT will meet on a regular basis to fine-tune all plans for responding to the pandemic. All operations will continue as usual including classes and research, unless the Policy Group decides that more severe measures need to be taken, such as suspending or closing the University . More specific steps will also be taken to prepare for Level 3. Communications with the campus community will increase to keep everyone informed of plans being implemented. Social distancing (cancellation of classes and other scheduled activities) may be implemented based on the consideration of the following events: World Health Organization declaration of Phase 6 - Pandemic period: Increased and sustained transmission in the general U.S. population Confirmation of a high rate of infectivity, morbidity (rate of infection) and/or mortality (death rate) Rate/speed of disease spreading Local or state public health recommendations to curtail/cancel public activities incounty or stateFalling class attendance, students leaving campus Rising employee absenteeism Other regional schools/school systems closing Transportation systems closing/curtailing interstate travel Cases in the Mid -South area occurring early versus late in the overall U.S. experience with the unfolding pandemic Within 1-3 days of declaring a school closure and depending on national and local conditions All University residences will close. Thereafter, as soon as practicable, most administrative offices and academic buildings will close. All research operations, except those with critical facility needs (e.g., animal care) or other needs that require continuous attention, will be interrupted until the pandemic period has passed. All administrative and academic support units will be shut down until the campus reopens. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 74 Level 3 At Level 3, closure sustained and only healthy, emergency crucial personnel will continue to report to work. Access to campus sealed off. Prepare for recovery stage once pandemic is under control and prepare to reopen as determined by the Policy Group. This plan will apply to the initial outbreak, as well as subsequent waves of the Avian Flu Pandemic Plan Organization Incident Command (IC): As listed under the Crisis Management Plan, in the event of an influenza pandemic, a unified command structure will be employed. The Director of Public Safety, Director of Environmental Health and Safety, and Medical Director of Student Health Services and Emergency Preparedness Coordinator will jointly serve in this capacity. Crisis Management Team (CMT): Will assist IC in the preparedness, response and recovery phases of a pandemic. CMT includes, but may not be limited to the following: 1.Executive Council/Policy Group 2.Student Health Services 3.Police Services 4.Environmental Health & Safety 5.Marketing and Communications 6.Government Relations 7.Physical Plant 8.Finance/Payroll 9.Information Technology 10.International Programs 11.Residence Life/Housing 12.Dining Services 13.Human Resources 14.Telecommunications 15.Student Affairs 16.Employee Safety & Health 17.Emergency Preparedness 18.Legal Counsel The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 75 Essential Services Should events mandate campus closing, the following services will remain essential: Department/Division Essential Services Staff Assignments* Academic Affairs Distance learning support Courtney Orians Parking Services Emergency transportation of students Angela Floyd Environmental Health & Safety Protection of perishable assets Environmental controls Al Simpson Physical Plant Building maintenance Essential utility services (AVP Physical Plant) Business & Finance Emergency purchase requests Payroll processing Re venue collection David Zettergren Human Resources Employee contact Workforce assessment Employee health care benefits Maria Alam Information Technology Communications infrastructure Distance learning infrastructure Ellen Watson Office Leadership Dr. David Rudd Communications, Public Relations & Marketing Internal communications External communications Tammy Hedges Residential Life & Dining Services Maintenance of dormitories or student shelters Delivery of food, water, sanitary supplies, etc. Aretha Milligan Police Services Emergency communications Control campus perimeter Cordon off any dangerous areas Derek Myers Student Affairs Student counseling services Maintain contact with students Dr. Rosie Bingham Student Health Services Emergency Preparedness Legal Counsel Emergency health services Coordination with EMS Maintenance of the Student Health Center Coordination with local, state and federal emergency management resources. Provide timely and competent legal assistance to all areas of the University Jane Clement Kevin Langellier Melanie Murry * In some instances, full staffing of a department/division may be necessary. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 76 Action Implementation Group Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 (In addition to Level 1) (In addition to Level 2) Assessment Team CMT/Ops Group/ others as needed 1) Monitor National and International situation 2) Develop media strategy 3) Determine where to house quarantine and isolation students 4) Communicate with Housing and Dining Services for quarantine planning 5) Prepare a transportation plan/determine who will transport quarantine patients to designated sites on campus/or isolation patients to hospitals in conjunction with Legal Counsel 6) Personnel receive fit test on respiratory protection and training from Environmental Health & Safety (EHS) 7) Oversee development of University plans and actions 8) Coordinate with Student Health Services (SHS) 9) Coordinate with state/city/county public agencies 10) Develop a list of emergency crucial positions 11) Track preparedness tasks and accomplishments 1) Activate the University Emergency Operations Center (EOC) 1) Maintain contact with University Police, EH&S, and SHS 2) Plan for recovery in post - pandemic period 3) Plan for revised instructional calendar and completion of the session The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 77 Group Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 (In addition to Level 1) (In addition to Level 2) Crisis Management Team (Incident Command) 1) Director, Police Services 2) Director, Environmental Health and Safety 3) Medical Director, Student Health Services 4) Emergency Preparedness Coordinator 1) Coordinate with Shelby County Health Department 2) Communicate with other universities 3) Brief emergency operations group on regular basis 4) Communicate with campus faculty, staff, students, and parents 5) Update plans as appropriate 6) Monitor developments in the city, metro region, state, nation, and internationally 7) Communicate with and brief SHS/EH&S/President and Executive Council/Policy Group 8) Oversee the development and implementation of the action plan 9) update action plan with CMT when needed 10) Monitor WHO, CDC bulletins, and other information sites about the virus and assess to determine if that information affects the plan 1) Advise President and Executive Council/Policy Group 2) Implement emergency action plan 3) Consider recommending cancellation of classes, public functions, and athletic events 1) Recommend quarantine of building frequented by infected person 2) Notify Housing and Dining Services of numbers that may need to be quarantined or isolated 3) Ensure that all functional groups have appropriate staffing 4) Recommend cancellation of classes, public functions, and athletic events, if not done under Level 2 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 78 Department/Unit Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 (In addition to Level 1) (In addition to Level 2) Police Services Emergency Preparedness 1) SHS trains Police Services on pandemic response 2) Identify personnel to receive fit test on respiratory protection and training from Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) 3) Identified personnel to receive N95 respirators from EH&S 4) Develop procedures for securing building, protecting stored supplies, and restricting access to campus 5) If police officers will be involved in custodial transport because other emergency transport is not available: EH&S will train in use of PPE, N95s, and infection control measures Develop plan for transportation 1) Plan mock drills for campus and evaluate in cooperation with EH&S 2) Assess needs for emergency crucial personnel 3) Recommend activation of the University Crisis Management Plan 4) Draft guidelines for on - campus mass dispensing site (POD) 1) Prepare appropriate signage 2) Alert SHS if encountering individual with flu - like symptoms 3) Equip cars with disinfectants, surgical masks, gloves, and hazard waste bags for persons being transported 4) Establish communication plan with SHS, Counseling Services, Residence Life, and Student Affairs for reporting calls and transport 1) Develop plans to maintain mission - critical operations: Plans to function with a skeletal workforce of essential personnel Back - up plans to maintain critical communications 1) Enforce quarantine and isolation 2) Assist SHS 3) Post signage for quarantine and isolation 4) Consider special parking rules for emergency crucial personnel 5) Prepare for crowd control 6) Implement plan on transporting individuals to hospital or quarantine areas 7) Deny entry or exit as directed by IC Team 8) Assist with crowd and traffic control 9) Secure buildings as directed by IC Team 1) Coordinate all actions with Memphis/Shelby County EMA EOC 2) Plan for revised post - pandemic recovery and resumption of normal operations 3) Track preparedness tasks and accomplishments during Levels 1 and 2 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 79 Department/Unit Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 (In addition to Level 1) (In addition to Level 2) Physical Plant 1) Prepare plan to shut down ventilation systems in buildings on an individual or entire campus basis 2) Evaluate building ventilation systems, especially in those areas considered for quarantine, isolation, and health care delivery 3) Increase the distribution of hand sanitizers by custodial staff 4) Work with EH&S to identify personnel that should receive fit test on respiratory protection and training 5) Assess housekeeping supplies/stockpile housekeeping supplies 6) Receive training from EH&S on infection control procedures 7) Determine if a negative pressure area can be implemented for the Student Health Services building 8) Ensure that Student Health Clinic has an adequate ventilation system to provide isolation of ill patients on all three floors 9) Acquire Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) in coordination with EH &S 10) Locate site(s) for temporary morgue(s) in coordination with CMT 1) Identified personnel, if any, receive N95 respirators 2) Prepare temporary morgue(s) 1) Shut off utilities to buildings if instructed by the IC Team 2) Organize support system as required 3) Stand by to shut down ventilation systems as instructed by the IC Team 4) Request refrigerated trailers from Shelby County Health Department once UofM is no longer capable of receiving fatalities. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 80 Department/Unit Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 (In addition to Level 1) (In addition to Level 2) EH&S 1) Assess respiratory protection plan and resources 2) With assistance of Crisis Management, obtain additional N95 respirators 3) Make PPE info available on - line 4) Fit test and train on respiratory protection those individuals identified by different departments 5) Train and review housekeepers on cleaning procedures for hygiene and cleaning of personal contact surfaces (e.g., doorknobs) in partnership with Physical Plant 6) Promote self - care and hand washing 7) Plan for increased volume of waste 8) Identify PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) needs and coordinate with departments/units. 9) website will have PPE items listed 10) Assist with communicating planning efforts to campus resources 11) Train Police Services in use of PPE/infection control 12) Monitor WHO, CDC bulletins, and other information sites about the virus and assess to determine if that information affects the plan 1) Arrange for medical waste collection and disposal 1) Coordinate disposal of hazardous material and cleanup The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 81 Department/Unit Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 (In addition to Level 1) (In addition to Level 2) President/Provost Executive Council and Crisis Policy Group 1) Approve Pandemic Response Plan 2) Create six subcommittees Students and Residence Halls Academics and Research Health Safety and Security Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Oversight Communication and Education 3) Follow U.S. Government guidelines on foreign travel 4) Approve plan for cancellation of classes and dismissal and dispersion of students 5) Approve plan for cancellation of athletic events and other activities 6) Review content of internal and external public information bulletins and announcements 7) De termine critical policy issues/identify options and decision point triggers 8) Review succession plan for leadership 9) Identify emergency crucial positions 10) Approve an education program for the University community on preparedness and best practices 11) Hold forums where issues, precautions, and concerns can be aired 12) Update the office and TBR about preparedness for an influenza pandemic as required 13) Monitor WHO, CDC bulletins, and other information sites about the virus and assess to determine if that information affects the plan 14) Review and approve a Social Distancing Policy 15) Work with Legal Counsel to resolve legal issues 1) Restrict travel to affected countries/regions 2) Evaluate information on potential institutional effects and set response priorities as appropriate 3) Consider cancellation of campus activities and athletic events 4) Consider implementing the plan for suspension of classes/dismissal and dispersal of students 5) Reevaluate response plan and priorities 6) Restrict movement on and off campus for activities and athletic events 1) Implement family notification plan regarding ill students, faculty, and/or staff 2) Consider canceling campus activities and athletic events, if not completed under Level 2 3) Coordinate implementation of isolation and quarantine procedures 4) Consider implementing the policy for suspension of classes/dismissal and dispersal of students 5) Plan for revised instructional calendar and completion of the session 6) Plan for revised post - pandemic recovery and resumption of normal operations 7) Implement plan for family notifications of fatalities The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 82 Department/Unit Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 (In addition to Level 1) (In addition to Level 2) Communications, Marketing and Public Relations 1) Identify outbreak control managers 2) Draft internal and external bulletins and announcement 3) Establish web site for referring questions and concerns about planning at the University 4) Identify mechanisms for communications: internal and external 5) Develop crisis communication messages for public release 6) Coordinate media and public information about this issue prior to and during a pandemic 7) Work with SHS in developing communications for release regarding personal preventive measures that will empower the community to take responsibility for their own health 8) Media preparation for University personnel preceding each media interaction to insure specific messages are communicated 1) Write and record updates through usual campus channels 2) Write and record bulletins and updates on the Emergency Information Hotlines and UofM web site 3) Request to campus that faculty/staff and their families report all flu cases to CMT 1) Organize phone banks if necessary. (Phone banks can refer callers to emergency services, take messages, support rumor control) 2) Establish a Media Relations Center remote from the EOC: coordinate press releases, and manage news teams and interviews, etc. 3) Review and revise internal and external messages The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 83 Department/Unit Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 (In addition to Level 1) (In addition to Level 2) Residence Life and Dining Services 1) Notify current occupants of the potential or need for them to move if necessary 2) Initiate pandemic awareness training for 3) Formulate plan for alternate Dining Services for students and staff 4) Ensure food delivery process is planned and will not be disrupted 5) Formulate plan to stockpile food and drinks, including water/ensure delivery process is planned 6) In the event of quarantined students, identify potential methods to provide custodial and maintenance service 7) Health Center trains personnel (including all front line staff): food service workers, custodial staff, conference coordinators, supervisors, managers, directors) on identifi cation, transmission, risks, and appropriate response 8) EH&S trains on infection control and PPE 9) Ensure emergency supplies of food and water are on hand 10) Identify potential rooms and buildings to be used for quarantined students. Update by semester based on current occupancy. Coordinate with School of Nursing 11) Identify possible rooms/buildings that can be used as residences for students who cannot go home 12) Preplan with food service contractor to arrange for possible continuity of service for all levels of the Pandemic Response Plan 13) Identify potential suppliers and alternates for meals 14) Formulate plans for quarantine of students. Coordinate with School of Nursing 15) Develop a plan for closure and evacuation of campus residence halls and houses not in use 16) Develop a plan for notifying and relocating students 17) Develop plans for continuation of housekeeping services 18) Identify communication protocols between Housing Services and Residence Life staff 1) Implement an emergency phone number for pandemic issues 2) Report suspicious illnesses to SHS 3) Stockpile food and water as planned 1) Implement Feeding Plan 2) Implement plan to quarantine students in conjunction with SHS and/or Shelby Health Department 3) Coordinate removal of students sent home by SHS 4) Identify meal/delivery/ medical needs for any student in quarantine 5) Set up Housing and Dining Services command center and recall necessary personnel 6) Activate emergency locator tracker on Housing web site for use by displaced students to report their temporary address 7) Activate emergency phone contact tree 8) Coordinate and work with School of Nursing if student quarantine or isolation is implemented The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 84 Department/Unit Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 (In addition to Level 1) (In addition to Level 2) Student Health Services 1) Post sign that patients who have flu - like symptoms should notify SHS immediately (901 - 678 - 2287) 2) Provide isolation exam rooms for patients with flu/flu - like symptoms 3) Follow local guidance for evaluation and monitor health care workers 4) Update blog devoted entirely to Pandemic Information on a regular basis ( ) 5) Identified personnel to receive fit test on respiratory protection and training from EH&S 6) Receive N95 respirators if available 7) Health Center trains personnel of Housing (including all front line staff): food service workers, custodial staff, conference coordinators, supervisors, managers, directors) on identification, transmission, risks, and appropriate response 8) Instruct staff in PPE appropriate for pandemic response 9) In - service staff on procedures for triaging patients and managing suspect cases 10) Prepare patient instruction sheet on pandemic flu 11) Implement a hand washing campaign on campus 12) Encourage each office/ department/unit to purchase and install hand sanitizer dispenser 13) Coord inate with Physical Plant to establish adequate ventilation system/negative pressure areas for the possibility of isolation on all three floors of clinic 14) Meet/coordinate with Shelby County Health Department/State/Federal officials 15) Initiate poster, email campaign, etc., for self - protection 16) Prepare Pandemic medical policy and procedure manual 1) Notify Shelby County Health Department and receive directions on how to proceed 2) Notify the CMT Policy and Operations Groups 3) Follow local/state/federal protocols for patient testing 4) Coordinate with School of Nursing in setting up isolation rooms on first and third floor of clinic, if implemented 5) Prepare and stock isolation rooms on second floor of clinic, if implemented 1) Isolate suspected/confirmed cases in a predetermined area 2) Arrange for counseling services, if needed 3) Notify School of Nursing of case(s) so that School of Nursing can arrange an interview and screening for those who came in contact with the patient 4) Update CMT Policy and Operations Groups 5) Secure additional personnel from local nursing agencies, if possible 6) Notify Housing and Food Services on number of persons who are isolated 7) Establish contact with Shelby County Medical Office The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 85 Department/Unit Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 (In addition to Level 1) (In addition to Level 2) Information Technology and Telecommunications 1) Identify IT capabilities and deficiencies 2) Facilitate telecommuting to the degree possible 3) Contract for supplemental telecommunications/computing hardware/software needs as necessary 4) Facilitate and support the development of distance learning to the degree possible 5) Assess supplemental telecom/computing hardware/software needs: Student Affairs Health Services Public Relations Counseling Center Human Resources Telecommunications 6) Assess needs for webpage support 7) Develop plan for adding volunteers to public email addresses 8) Develop plan for distributing telephone calls to homes or phone banks 10) Activation of emergency UofM website 1) Arrange for an emergency telephone line for Pandemic issues 2) Purchase supplemental telecommunications/ computing hardware/software needs, if necessary and available 1) Assist with email message distribution 2) Add additional phone lines to EOC, quarantine areas, and functional groups, as needed 3) Set up podium and microphones for media 4) Assist with implementation of distance learning Student Affairs 1) Initiate pandemic awareness training for 2) Formulate and rehearse plan to address needs/support for Greek organizations, as necessary 3) Ask Fraternities and Sororities to plan for pandemic outbreak 1) Report suspicious illness to Student Health Services 2) Communicate with parents and families 1) Identify student events where suspected or confirmed patients have attended 2) Assist with relocation of students for quarantine, to the degree possible The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 86 Department/Unit Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 (In addition to Level 1) (In addition to Level 2) Human Resources 1) Prepare call - off guidelines and review vacation/sick leave guidelines for applicability in a pandemic event 2) Identify personnel available for telephone support work 3) Establish return - to - work guidelines 4) Prepare communications for supervisors and campus work force, addressing guidelines for reporting illnesses, business travel procedures, information to persons returning from affected areas 5) Develop contingency policies for work - at - home, emergency leave, working outside normal job description 6) Develop policies for payment of employees not reporting to work 7) Coordinate with Payroll (re: implementation of pay policies) 8) Assist with/help coordinate training for emergency staff (re: short staffing situations) 9) Coordinate the identification of emergency crucial personnel and ensure that departments are depth charted and inform them of their responsibilities 10) Encourage staff and faculty to update emergency contact information and phone tree 11) Assist in the recruitment of a volunteer work force from the University and identification of cross - training needs 12) Review time - off policies, sick time policies, salary continuance policies, compensation policies, absence policies and processes (family leave for caregivers, bereavement leave and other causes of absence, such as: travel restrictions, etc.) 13) Review redeployment procedures as workers could be asked to switch shifts, employment locations or assignments 14) Review health care coverage and identify steps that must be taken to monitor and protect health insurance coverage 15) Assist departments with implementation of the Pandemic Preparedness Plan 16) Explore strategies that consolidate offices and operations 1) Implement policies for leave and working at home; consult regarding any potential disciplinary situations 2) Activate call - off policy 3) Determine return - to - work requirements for employees; consult regarding any potential disciplinary situations 4) Track personnel leave; procedures on payment during leave; policy on working outside normal job description, etc. 5) Communicate with insurance carriers on evolving campus issues 6) Coordinate with SHS for updated individual status 7) Provide master updated information to others on a need to know basis The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 87 Department/Unit Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 (In addition to Level 1) (In addition to Level 2) Career and Psychological Counseling Center 1) Determine the appropriate level of intervention based on assessment of student body 2) Train staff in psychological protocol 1) Expand hours of operation and drop - in counseling as needed 2) Upgrade website to provide relevant psychological educational information related to pandemic and links to appropriate sites 1) Rotate staff assignments 2) Secure contract staff and volunteers, if possible, and if required 3) Implement off - site telephone hot lines as needed 4) Assign staff to phone lines International Programs and Study Abroad 1) Issue advisories for students, faculty and staff planning international travel 2) Issue advisories for students, faculty, staff, and visitors arriving from affected regions 3) Monitor student travelers entering from affected regions and communicate with international students and their families 4) Develop policies/procedures for monitoring and recalling students from affected regions 5) Develop policies/procedures for issuing advisories on international travel 6) Develop a plan for communicating with international students and their families regarding travel restrictions and re - entry 7) Develop a plan for communicating with students who are studying abroad or plan to study abroad 8) Develop guidelines for temporary closure of study abroad programs 9) Monitor faculty/staff traveling in affected region 10) Communicate with study abroad program leaders about planning procedures for shelter - in - place, closure decisions, and resources for assisting students who cannot get home 1) Advise/communicate with students, faculty, and staff outside the contiguous United States 2) When possible, support students, faculty, and staff who are outside the contiguous United States and unable to return The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 88 Department/Unit Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 (In addition to Level 1) (In addition to Level 2) School of Nursing 1) Each semester provide a list of nursing student volunteers to assist SHS during Levels 2 and 3, if available 2) Consult with Legal Counsel concerning nursing student volunteers 3) Train nursing volunteers/staff/faculty on infection control measures and the proper use of PPE 4) Identify personnel who should receive fit test on respiratory protection and training from EH&S 5) Acquire N95 respirators for identified personnel through Crisis Management 6) With assistance from Crisis Management, identify and purchase supplies needed to operate isolation rooms on first and third floor of clinic, if necessary 7) With assistance from Crisis Management, acquire Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) 8) Prepare plan for campus mass immunization 9) Implement mass immunization plan if vaccine is available and so instructed by SHS or local/state/federal decree 10) Develop point(s) of distribution (POD) for vaccines/prophylaxis 11) Identify nursing faculty to assist SHS with isolation if required 12) Identify nursing student volunteers and nursing faculty to assist with quarantine at designated sites, if implemented 13) Assess capacity for nursing support to SHS 14) Prepare a surveillance and case - contact investigation plan 15) Prepare quarantine policies 1) Student nursing volunteers assist SHS, if needed, and requested to do so by Dean, School of Nursing 2) Prepare and equip isolation rooms with supplies, beds, etc. that will be needed for isolation, if necessary 3) Implement mass immunization plan if vaccine is available and not already done under Level 1 1) Identified nursing faculty assist with quarantine and isolation and assist SHS, if required 2) Implement surveillance and case - contact investigation plan 3) Implement quarantine policies as required 4) Notify Housing and Dining Services on number of persons who may be quarantined 5) Arrange for counseling services, if needed 6) Nursing volunteers to assist SHS 7) Nursing student volunteers assist with quarantine, if so requested by Dean, School of Nursing The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 89 Department/Unit Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 (In addition to Level 1) (In addition to Level 2) Dean of Students Office 1) Coordinate communication to students and parents 2) Work with Residence Life and Police Services 1) Work with Residence Life and Police Services 2) Coordinate implementation of isolation/quarantine 3) Work with enforcement issues 4) Handle parent issues, parent calls, those wanting to come on campus, etc Admissions/Financial Aid 1) Develop plan for reviewing applications and recruiting in the absence of face - to - face interviewing or campus visits 2) Discuss contingency plans for issues dealing with financial aid, withdrawal from school due to illness and other factors related to tuition and registration Research 1) Determine campus buildings that may remain open for research 2) Establish a plan for maintaining security in laboratory spaces 3) Establish a plan for laboratory animals if research ceases due to safety issues or high absenteeism among the animal handlers 4) Establish a plan for specimen storage and managing experiments in process The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 90 Department/Unit Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 (In addition to Level 1) (In addition to Level 2) All Departments and units 1) Encourage staff to get the seasonal influenza vaccine 2) Notify personnel that vaccine, if available or in short supply, will be administered on a priority basis as determined by local/state/federal governments/CDC, which may mean certain individuals will not get the vaccine 3) The same applies to antiviral medications. (See #2 above) 4) Monitor the website where the Pandemic Preparedness Plan resides for updates and implement the changes 5) Monitor SHS blog for pandemic information ( ) 6) Identify emergency crucial positions and maintain record in the department and HR as referenced in UM Policy 1531 7) Train emergency crucial personnel and inform them of their responsibilities (including full - time, part - time and unpaid or volunteer staff) needed to carry on your work. Include back - up plans, cross - train staff in other jobs so that if staff are sick, others are ready to assume that responsibility 8) Identify personnel, if any, who should receive fit test on respiratory protection and training from EH&S 9) With assistance from Crisis Management, acquire N95 masks for those so identified 10) Assist in drafting/updating Business Continuity Plan 11) Test your response and preparedness plan using an exercise/drill, and review and revise plan as needed. 12) Take Pandemic Preparedness Plan and shape it for your department/unit 13) Assign key staff with the authority to strengthen, maintain and act upon a pandemic preparedness plan 1) Plan to implement Business Continuity Plan if necessary 2) Notify SHS of suspicious illnesses 3) Distribution of N95 masks to emergency crucial personnel as needed 1) Report absent employees to HR 2) Activate Business Continuity Plan 3) Plan for revised post - pandemic recovery and resumption of normal operations 4) Plan for revised instructional calendar and completion of the session The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 91 14) Determine the potential impact on your activities and services 15) Determine the potential impact on outside resources that your department/unit depends on to deliver its services (e.g., supplies, travel, etc.) 16) Develop tools to communicate information about pandemic status and your actions. 17) Anticipate and plan for (high) staff absences due to personal and/or family illnesses, school, business, and public transportation closures 18) Follow CDC/State Department/University travel recommendations 19) Determine the amount of supplies needed to promote respiratory hygiene and how they will be obtained 20) Consider focusing your efforts to providing services that are most needed during an emergency 21) Assign a point of contact to maximize communication between your department/unit and IC/ CMT/ SHS/ EH&S/ President/ Communications 22) Share what you have learned from strengthening the preparedness plan with other departments/units to improve community response efforts. 23) Share what you have learned from your drills/exercises 24) Maintain and update emergency phone notification/phone tree 25) Consult with Crisis Management for assistance in purchasing surgical masks 26) Consider installing protective barriers between work stations or increasing space (greater than three feet) between staff/students 27) Report all known influenza cases to CMT and SHS The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 92 *QUARANTINE will be used for healthy persons who have been exposed to the suspected or diagnosed case. The person(s) should be kept in a place where they have no contact with others for the duration of the incubation period as determined by WHO or CDC. If no symptoms develop in that time frame, they may be taken out of quarantine. If a person develops symptoms, they are moved to isolation. *ISOLATION is used for a person suspected or diagnosed with the disease. The person(s) should be isolated in the hospital or their own home. A place to isolate a person here on campus may be needed if we have an on - campus resident who is unable to be immediately transported home. Keep in mind that an International student might not be able to go home, especially if air transportation is shut down because of quarantine or disruption of travel because of supply problems (with jet fuel, etc.). Current WHO (World Health phase of pandemic alert The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 93 Special Policies for Infected Individuals Any employee with symptoms as determined by SHS: o If at work, should be sent home wearing a face mask o If at home, should not report to work Any student with symptoms as determined by SHS: o Should be sent home wearing a face mask - or - o Should be quarantined at a location designated for infected individuals Maintain contact with employees and students at home o Preferably by phone or e - mail o Avoid personal contact Note: Symptoms include the sudden onset of a high fever, headache, aches and pains, fatigue and weakness, sore throat, chest discomfort and respiratory problems/failure. Potentially infected individuals should be debriefed by SHS regarding recent work contacts and recent travel. Those employees should then be released wearing a face mask. Identify all individuals who may have had contact with the affected individual and immediately communicate this information to all possibly infected parties. Disinfect affected areas. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 94 Plan Activation and Execution Activate the plan when a contagious outbreak occurs overseas. If a contagious outbreak occurs within North America, then an immediate activation of Plan Execution steps should be taken. Initial Actions Initial actions are taken when a contagious outbreak occurs within North America. If the contagious outbreak does not appear to be contained or if there is a chance that the outbreak will spread to the immediate area, then Full Activation steps should be taken. Activate and maintain the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) o Closely monitor the location(s) and mortality rate of the outbreak o Develop a process to monitor absentee rates o Meetings should b e held at 8:00 a.m. (meetings may be conducted by telephone among selected members) and at 5:30 p.m. or more frequently as necessary o The UofM emergency hotline and website should be updated at 6:00 a.m. and at 6:00 p.m. or more frequently if necessary Track vaccination programs Assist students and employees with access to vaccination programs Implement overseas travel restriction policies to infected areas Complete all pre - event preparation steps Be prepared to implement social distancing and personal protection equipment policies Be prepared to suspend normal operations and disperse all personnel from the campus if the mortality rate is expected to be high Full Activation Campus Remains Open The outbreak is now in the immediate area, and a decision for the campus to remain open has been made. Maintain the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) o Closely monitor the location(s) and mortality rate of the outbreak o Closely monitor absentee rates o Meetings should be held at 5:30 a.m. (meetings may be conducted by telephone among selected members) and at 5:30 p.m. or more frequently as necessary o The UofM emergency hotline and website should be updated at 6:00 a.m. and at 6:00 p.m. or more frequently if necessary Track vaccination programs Assist students and employees with access to vaccination programs The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 95 Consider eliminating all travel Complete all pre - event preparation steps If possible, allow employees to work from home Utilize social distancing messages to reduce the spread of the virus in the University community Limit all types of face - to - face contact Avoid meetings, shared offices, handshaking, etc. Limit, but preferably eliminate, all face - to - face talking Utilize speakerphones, and avoid any face contact with communication equipment Cancel any social gathering/events Allow employees to eat lunch alone at their workstations Any employee with symptoms as determined by SHS o If at work, should be sent home wearing a face mask o If at home, should not report to work Any student with symptoms as determined by SHS o Should be sent home wearing a face mask - or - o Should be quarantined at a location designated for infected individuals Maintain contact with employees and students at home o Preferably by phone or e - mail o Avoid personal contact Assess the risks for personnel in your work areas and plan for providing appropriate personal protective equipment and other countermeasures Do not allow access to anyone who has traveled to an infected area Restrict guests or visitors to affected areas Restrict tra vel to any affected areas It may be necessary to suspend meetings It may be necessary to suspend normal operations Full Activation Campus Closes The outbreak is now in the immediate area, and a decision for the campus to close has been made. Maintain the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) o Closely monitor the location(s) and mortality rate of the outbreak o Meetings should be held at 8:00 a.m. (meetings may be conducted by telephone among selected members) and at 5:30 p.m. or more frequently as necessary The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 96 o The UofM emergency hotline and website should be updated at 6:00 a.m. and at 6:00 p.m. or more frequently if necessary Track vaccination programs Assist students and employees with access to vaccination programs Implement full travel and campus access restriction policies o Except for evacuating the campus, eliminate all travel o Restrict access to emergency crucial personnel Maintain and, if possible, expand the use of distance learning For essential employees who must remain on campus and for students who cannot evacuate Limit any type of face - to - face contact Avoid meetings, shared offices, handshaking, etc. Utilize speakerphones, and avoid any facial contact with communication equipment Cancel any social gathering/events Allow essentia l employees to eat lunch alone at their workstations Any essential employee with symptoms as determined by SHS o If at work, should be sent home wearing a face mask - or - o Should be isolated at a location designated for infected individuals o If at home, should not report to work Any student with symptoms as determined by SHS o Should be isolated at a location designated for infected individuals Maintain contact with employees and students at home o Preferably by phone or e - mail o Avoid personal contact Assess the risks for personnel in your work areas and plan for providing appropriate personal protective equipment and other countermeasures Do not allow access to anyone Crisis Management and Business Continuity Program Review Review the actions taken by the all teams Review the actions taken by the various UofM departments Review the actions taken by individual employees and students The Emergency Preparedness Coordinator drafts changes to the documentation and procedures for review and approval The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 97 Appendices Appendix A Expected Impact Fatalities o Possible within the workforce and student body o Numerous (in the thousands or more) nationwide/worldwide High absentee rates (student and workforce) Not a physically damaging disaster Duration would not likely be short, hampering any rapid recovery efforts Areas would likely be affected in waves lasting several weeks There may be multiple waves of the same or slightly mutated virus Medical facilities swamped Effective vaccines would not likely be readily available Some general warning period is likely, but it may be a brief warning Enormous post - disaster socioeconomic changes are possible Physical assets, and in some cases employees, may be commandeered by civil authorities Appendix B Personal Protective Equipment and Products N95 face masks Goggles Disposable gloves or gloves that can be disinfected Disposable protective shoe covers or shoes that can be disinfected Soap Disinfectants Tissue, paper towels and other disposable cleaning products The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 98 Appendix C Personal Safety In Advance of an Outbreak Have sufficient nonperishable food, water, medications and other survival supplies available for as long a period as reasonably possible In particular, maintain an adequate supply of o Soap for frequent hand washing o Face masks, latex gloves, tissue, etc. Do not travel to any areas where an outbreak is occurring If an epidemic or pandemic outbreak occurs in the immediate area Try to avoid contamination by taking the following general precautions: o Avoid public transportation o Eliminate all unnecessary travel o Eliminate shopping, entertainment, etc. o Do not allow guests or visitors Try to avoid contamination by taking the following medical precautions: o Wash hands frequently with soap and water o Wash sheets and clothes in hot water o Do not touch your face with your hands (eyes, nose and mouth are the most likely points of virus entry into the body) o Cover coughs and sneezes o Wear face masks, eye goggles and other personal protection equipment o Dispose of all used face masks, tissue, etc., and afterwards wash hands o Stop smoking o Stay away from others as much as possible, in particular: People with symptoms Children Chronically ill people o Limit any touching or face contact with others o Keep children out of school If infected o Do not report to work o Isolate yourself o Wear a face mask Communicate this information to all family members The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 99 I.2 Ebola Virus Disease Definitions *Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) , or Ebola, is a hemorrhagic fever virus first discovered in 1976 in the Democratic Republic of Congo near the Ebola River. It is a severe, often fatal, disease in humans and non - human primates. *Suspected case is one in which the patient has some symptoms of the virus and has either recently traveled to an affected area or had close contact with an EVD patient or with someone who has had close contact with an EVD patient. *Confirmed case is one in which the patient has tested positive for the Ebola virus utilizing testing methods deemed appropriate by the CDC. *Close contact means being within three feet of an EVD patient for a prolonged period of time without Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) or any touching/direct contact with an EVD patient or body fluids from the EVD patient. *Hemorrhagic means a rapid, uncontrollable outflow of blood. *Incubation period is the time between initial infection and the appearance of symptoms. *Contagious , when applied to Ebola Virus Disease, means capable of being transmitted: (1) from person to person via direct contact or contact with bodily fluids; or (2) through handling of infected bush animals or animal carcasses. *CDC refers to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Background Information Risk factors for Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) include travel to geographic areas where the virus is endemic (i.e., Western Africa); handling carcasses of dead, infected bush animals; close contact or caring for infected patients; or handling the body of a patient who has died of EVD. There are no reports that EVD is spread by arthropods (e.g., mosquitos). EVD is spread through direct contact with body fluids from an infected patient (blood, urine, stool, saliva, semen, etc.). Symptoms may appear 2 - 21 days post exposure. Patients are not infectious during the incubation period. It is only after becoming symptomatic that a patient is infectious, and the risk is greatest during late stages of the disease when viral loads are highest. Patients who have recovered from EVD are not generally considered to be contagious after symptoms have disappeared; however, some body fluids (e.g., semen) may remain infectious for some time after recovery. Consult CDC web site for specific information. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 100 Examples of EVD Symptoms (Examples not all inclusive; see CDC web site for more information.) Initial Symptoms Advanced Symptoms Sudden onset of fever Vomiting Fatigue Diarrhea Muscle pain Rash Headache Impaired kidney or liver function Sore throat Hemorrhage Travel To ensure that members of the University community planning official travel, personal travel, or interactions with personnel who may be at risk of EVD are informed of those risks prior to such events, timely information will be provided to the University community. This information will be based on travel advisories and other relevant sources issued by the U.S. Department of State, CDC, World Health Organization, county health department, and other authorities. The University will suspend or cancel officially sponsored travel when deemed appropriate to protect the wellbeing of the travelers. Infection Prevention Upon receiving information from public health officials that an EVD outbreak has occurred in an area likely to impact members of the University community, a sign will be posted at the entrance to the Student Health Center; the sign will direct patients with any of the risk factors or symptoms to ring the doorbell and remain outside the building. The patient will then be directed to enter the building through a private entrance to the Triage Room, avoiding public areas of the building. The patient will be isolated and screened by a nurse. If known risk factors or signs and symptoms of possible EVD are confirmed, the Student Health Center EVD protocol will be implemented. This protocol includes provisions for notifying public health officials and University officials, restricting movement of the patient beyond the Triage Room, beginning appropriate pre - hospital care, and closing the Student Health Center to all but emergency personnel. Patient Placement and Treatment Patients are to be transported by ambulance to the emergency department of an appropriate local hospital. Further treatment will be provided at the hospital. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 101 Communication A communication strategy will be developed by the University to ensure that timely and accurate information on EVD is being disseminated to all. All communications and notifications will be handled by the Marketing and Communication Office as outlined in the Crisis Management Plan. Cleaning and Decontamination If a patient is transported to the hospital for potential EVD, securing and cleaning of potentially infected locations on campus will occur with guidance and direction from the county health department. The decontamination of personnel and equipment will take place in a location designated by the county health department. No contaminated waste will be removed except by infectious waste professionals. Education and Training Specific training for appropriate University personnel has been developed and includes: Proper donning and doffing of PPE Screening of patients for possible EVD and response to a positive screen Isolation and initial management of a patient with suspected EVD Handling and management of waste materials Terminal cleaning of the room Education and training materials are based on current CDC and State of Tennessee recommendations; these materials will be revised, as needed, based on new recommendations. Exposure Management Persons with skin or mucous membrane exposures to blood, body fluids, secretions or excretions from a patient with suspected EVD shall immediately wash the affected skin surfaces with soap and water. Exposed mucous membranes (e.g., conjunctivae) shall be irrigated with copious amounts of water. These individuals and those caring for, or in close contact with, a suspected EVD patient may, at the discretion of the county health department, receive medical evaluation and follow - up care, including fever monitoring twice daily for 21 days post exposure. Plan Activation Level 1 The University will operate at Level 1 until such time Level 2 is reached (p73). Level 2 The University will immediately move to Level 2 when even a single Ebola case is suspected or confirmed on campus. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 102 Level 3 Depending upon the circumstances of a confirmed case, the Policy Group may decide that more severe measures need to be taken, such as suspending classes or closing the University for a sustained period, and Level 3 (p74) can be declared. Some of the considerations in this decision process are as follows: Whether the confirmed virus was considered to be at a contagious level when identified The number of possibly exposed persons affiliated with the University The recommendation by the appropriate government agency regarding the length of time the University should remain closed Action Implementation The steps listed p76 - 91, will be followed if appropriate for EVD. EVD specific steps are listed below: Group Level 1 (See p76 - 96) Level 2 (See p76 - 96) plus steps below Level 3 (See p76 - 96) Crisis Management Team Communications Services Once even a single suspected or confirmed Ebola case is identified on campus, the following steps will be enacted: 1) Confine the patient to an appropriate location, eliminating the possibility of other healthy persons coming in contact with the patient 2) Contact Police Services (678 - 4357) and advise to activate CMP 3) Activate the University Emergency Operations Center (EOC) 4) Contact the county health department and report the case 5) Attempt to compile a list of all persons this patient has come into close contact with since their potential exposure to Ebola 6) Notify and/or update the Policy Group 7) Notify the faculty, staff, and student body by appropriate means 8) Prepare a statement for public release Return to Level 1 : Once all suspected or confirmed EVD patients are no longer on campus, and all persons who may have had close contact with an EVD patient have been medically evaluated and cleared, then the Policy Group will decide the appropriate time to reopen the University and when to return to Level 1. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 103 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan ANNEX J INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES DISASTER RECOVERY PLAN The Information Technology Services (ITS) Disaster Recovery plan delineates the policies and procedures for technology disaster recovery, as well as process - level plans for recovering critical technology platforms and the telecommunications infrastructure. This document summarizes recommended procedures; modifications may occur in the event of an actual emergency to ensure physical safety of personnel, systems, and data. The mission is to ensure information system uptime, data integrity and availability, and business continuity. Note: The complete ITS DR plan is located on the ITS website ( - disaster - recovery - plan.pdf ) this is a safeguarded document and available to authorized personnel only. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 104 Hazard Specific Appendices The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 105 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan APPENDIX 1 SEVERE WEATHER SEVERE STORMS In the event severe weather such as ice and snow are imminent, the Department of Public Safety, and the Emergency Preparedness Coordinator will monitor weather conditions. In the event of an overnight winter/severe storm: The Director of Public Safety advises the President regarding road conditions. The Director monitors current conditions and forecast from the National Weather Service in Memphis. To determine road conditions, he/she also confers with: University Police Officers who are on campus working the night shift the Memphis Police Department the Shelby County Sheriff's Office the Tennessee Highway Patrol Tennessee Department of Transportation (TDOT) The Director contacts the Vice President for Business & Finance and/or the President to provide advice. Based on that advice, the President will decide whether to maintain the normal schedule, delay the normal opening time, or close the University until conditions are safer. If weather and road conditions are known the evening before, a decision to alter the normal schedule will be announced on the late evening television news. If weather and road conditions cannot be accurately determined until the very early hours of the morning, a decision and announcement about the University's operational status will be made as early as possible with a targeted decision time of 5:00 a.m. and a targeted announcement time of 5:30 a.m. If the President or designee alters the schedule or opts to close the campus, s/he will notify the University's Vice President for Communications, Marketing and Public Relations or designee. The Vice President for Communications, Marketing and Public Relations or designee will issue information related to campus closure and subsequent reopening to the campus community and the public using some or all of the following means, depending on circumstances: The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 10 6 University of Memphis special information line: 901 - 678 - 0888 University of Memphis main web page ( ) The local broadcast news media WUMR (FM 91.7) Campus email system Campus TigerText system Social Media sites (Facebook, Twitter) Outdoor Warning System Alertus network notification system The current operational status of the University is always available on the Special Information telephone line, regardless of whether the University is open or closed. In the event of a winter/severe storm during the day: The Director and EP Coordinator monitor current conditions and forecasts from the National Weather Service in Memphis. To determine road conditions, he/she also confers with: University Police Officers who are on campus the Memphis Police Department the Shelby County Sheriff's Office the Tennessee Highway Patrol Tennessee Department of Transportation The Director contacts the Vice President for Business & Finance and/or the President to provide advice. Based on that advice and if conditions warrant, the University President will decide whether to close the University or to alter the schedule. The Office of the President will notify the Provost, each of the Vice Presidents, and the Director of Communications Services or designee. The Offices of the Provost and each of the Vice Presidents will activate the emergency notification system to notify faculty and staff at work . If notified to leave campus, faculty, staff and students are asked to do so without delay. The Vice President for Communications, Marketing and Public Relations or designee will issue information related to campus closure and subsequent reopening to the campus community and the public using some or all of the following means, depending on circumstances: University of Memphis special information line: 901 - 678 - 0888 University of Memphis main web page ( ) The local broadcast news media WUMR (FM 91.7) Campus email system Campus TigerText system The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 107 Social Media sites (Facebook, Twitter) Outdoor Warnin g System Alertus network notification system The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 108 SNOW AND ICE RESPONSE PLAN OVERVIEW The goal of this plan is for academic and administrative functions of the University to proceed with minimal disruption, and for members of the campus community to enjoy as safely as possible access to public buildings and activities in the event of snow and/or ice conditions. This document describes the coordinated support various campus departments will provide when hazardous conditions due to inclement winter weather exist. Winter storms can range from moderate snow over a few hours to blizzard conditions with blinding, wind - driven snow or freezing rain that lasts several days. When listening to winter weather reports, it is important to be familiar with the terms used by the broadcasters. ( See definitions beginning on page 4 of this document) If it is necessary to suspend operations due to winter weather, that announcement will be made via local media outlets and: A. UofM e - mail B. TigerText C. Social Media sites (Facebook, Twitter) C. UofM website D. Special Information Hotline (678 - 0888) Campus, city, county, state, and local agencies will cooperate in the snow and ice abatement effort to enable timely utilization of a variety of resources to address hazardous conditions that impact roadways, building entrances, walkways, and parking lots. The AVP for Physical Plant or a designee is responsible for the overall management of the sn ow and ice removal activities. Physical Plant and Residence Life, as well as other employees as deemed essential by the nature of the emergency, will strive to abate hazardous conditions wherever possible and execute the Snow and Ice Response Plan. SNOW REMOVAL RESPONSE Snow and Ice Response Plan is set into motion by the University of Memphis Police Services personnel. The majority of priority areas can usually be cleared within 48 hours following a winter storm event. However, continuous precipitation or other factors may cause an extension of clearance times. SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL PRIORITIES Facilities to be de - iced are prioritized as follows: Campus housing facilities Facilities hosting events which have not been cancelled Research facilities housing research animals Food Service facilities (if open) The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 109 Surfaces to be de - iced are: The accessible entrance/landing (the entrance where the handicap ramp is located) The sidewalks connecting curb cuts and handicap ramps/entrances Handicap ramps at curb cuts Campus sidewalks Steps and landings If snow and ice falls during the evening or early morning (off hours), Physical Plant and Residence Life employees are urged to report to work, if they can do so safely. If they are already at work, they are urged to stay and complete as much de - icing and sanding as is safe to complete. Landscape employees will begin spreading de - icing agents on sidewalks, handicap ramps, and curb cuts according to the priorities listed abov e. The landscape department will spread sand at major street intersections within campus and in priority campus parking lots as listed below. These facilities and parking lots will be addressed even if the University is closed. Residence Life and Dining staff will first spread de - icing agents on steps, porches, and landings for all traditional residence halls and open dining facilities. Physical Plant and Residence Life will spread de - icing agents on steps, porches and landings for Carpenter Complex and Graduate and Student Family Housing. If the University is open Physical Plant employees will spread de - icing agents on steps, porches, ramps, curb cuts, and landings of the remaining University facilities. In this event, the snow and ice removal efforts will be focused on the sidewalks, curb cuts, ramps, and landings that lead to the accessible entrances only. Parking lots to be sanded are prioritized by proximity to the following facilities: Locations that have large volumes of people currently on campus or known to be on their way to campus (residence halls, apartments, events, etc.). Facilities hosting events Research facilities housing research animals Surfaces to be sanded: Major intersections within campus Campus Parking lots, in priority listed above The staff members of Physical Plant and Residence Life & Dining Services will assist by de - icing steps, doorways and landings in their areas; therefore, campus landscape will focus its efforts on ramps, curb cuts, sidewalks, and parking lots as first directed by the priority systems in place; upon completion Campus Landscape staff will assist the custodial employees to complete areas not yet reached. During these times, it is critical that good communication is maintained between Director of Residence The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 110 Life and Dining Services, or his/her designee, and the Assistant Vice President of Physical Plant, or his/her designee, and other emergency departments involved to ascertain project progress and where de - icing efforts still need to be applied. The custodial staff will assess hazards and or needs within buildings that may have been created by snow and ice. These issues may include wet lobbies, hallways, bathrooms, stairwells, etc. Signage will be posted to desi gnate wet floors and other hazards within residence halls. The custodial staff will take this action following the initial task of spreading de - icing agent. In the event the snow and ice removal duties of the Physical Plant and Residence Life custodial staffs are completed they will then assist the landscape department in de - icing efforts. Our goal is to reach every critical area of the campus within 72 hours of the last snow or ice accumulation. It is unknown as to how many employees the University will have when these emergency situations arise; consequently, time frames to accomplish de - icing all areas may fluctuate in relation to the amount of labor available and the severity of the event. Students and staff should take precaution in using all facilities during a period of snow and ice in the event that removal staff has not yet attended to a specific area. SEVERE WEATHER DECISION MAKING PROCEDURES See the University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan, Appendix 1 (Severe Weather). The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 111 Definitions of Winter Weather Terms used by the National Weather Service As winter approaches, your National Weather Service Office in Buffalo, New York wants you to understand winter weather terms and to be aware of winter weather hazards. The National Weather Service uses several terms to tell you exactly what kind of weather to expect. 1) WINTER STORM OUTLOOK This is a statement issued when there is a chance of a major winter storms from 3 to 5 days in the future. This is meant to assist people with their long range plans. However, since the outlook is issued so far in advance, the accuracy of the prediction may be limited. 2) WINTER STORM WATCH This means there may be hazardous winter weather due to various elements such as heavy snow, sleet, or ice accumulation from freezing rain. In our region, heavy snow means 7 inches or more of accumulation in 24 hours or less. A "WATCH" is a long range prediction. They are issued at least 12 hours before the hazardous winter weather is expected to begin. When the storm becomes imminent, or has a high probability of occurring, the watch will be upgraded to a "WARNING". 3) WINTER STORM WARNING FOR HEAVY SNOW Seven inches or more of snow will fall within a 24 hour period. 4) WINTER STORM WARN ING FOR SEVERE ICING Heavy accumulation of ice due to freezing rain will down trees and power lines. Electricity, or telephone communications, may be out for a long period of time. Roads may become impassable for most vehicles. 5) BLIZZARD WARNING This is issued for a combination of strong winds averaging or frequently gusting to, or above, 35 miles an hour and very low visibility due to blowing or falling snow. These are the most dangerous winter storms and can be especially severe when combined with temperatures below 10 degrees. 6) WINTER STORM WARNING The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 112 Issued when a dangerous combination of heavy snow, with sleet and/or freezing rain, will occur or has a high probability of occurring within the next 12 hours. 7) HIGH WIND WARNING This means the expected winds will average 40 miles an hour or more for at least 1 hour or winds gusts will be greater than 58 miles an hour. Trees and power lines can be blown down. A High Wind Warning may be preceded by a HIGH WIND WATCH if the strong winds are not expected to occur for at least 12 hours. 8) WIND CHILL WARNING This means life threatening cold with wind chill temperatures computed to be - 40 degrees or less for at least 3 hours. Exposure to this combination of strong winds and low temperatures without protective clothing will quickly lead to frostbite and/or hypothermia. Longer exposures can be fatal. 9) WINTER WEATHER ADVISORY FOR SNOW Issued for snowfall greater than 4 (but less than 7) inches in a 24 hour period. The snowfall is usually expected to begin within the next 12 hours. 10) BLOWING SNOW ADVISORY Issued when the visibility will be significantly reduced, or when the roads become snow covered over a large area. 11) WIND CHILL ADVISORY Issued for cold temperatures and winds, with wind chill temperatures computed to be - 25 degrees or less for at least 3 hours. Exposure to this combination of strong winds and low temperatures without protective clothing can lead to frostbite and/or hypothermia, Prolonged exposure may be fatal. 12) WINTER WEATHER ADVISORY Issued for a combination of snow, sleet, and/or freezing rain. Advisories, in general, are issued for weather conditions that are expected to cause significant inconveniences and may be hazardous, These situations are normally not life threatening if caution is exercised. 13) WIND ADVISORY Issued for average wind speeds between 31 and 39 miles an hour, or for frequent wind gusts between 46 and 57 miles an hour. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 113 TORNADOS Alerts are issued by the National Weather Service and classified in two major areas. They are: Tornado Watch means conditions are favorable for the development of tornados. Tornado Warning means a tornado has been sighted in your area. If the NWS issues a Tornado Warning for the area, the outdoor warning sirens (tornado sirens) will be activated accompanied by audible voice messages, TigerText, social media and email alerts. Alert employees and students in your immediate area 1. Close all doors; stay away from windows. 2. Move students/employees to a l ower level hallway or basement. 3. If available, take a battery powered radio and flashlight with you. 4. Remain in the sheltered area until an is given. Do not leave shelter until a period of at least ten (10) minutes has elapsed without the sounding of the alert sirens, or the local news media announced an If a Tornado Warning is issued for Shelby County, Police Services will alert all Residence Hall desks and/or dispatch officers to the various halls. Residence Life will then implement their severe weather evacuation plan to move residents to the safest pre - determined locations for each building. During a Tornado If at home , go to a basement or storm cellar, away from windows. If neither a basement nor storm cellar is available, find shelter in a center room under a piece of sturdy furniture (such as a work bench or heavy table) and hold on to it. Use arms to protect head and neck. If at work or school , go to the basement or inside hallway at the lowest level. Avoid buildings with wide - span roofs, such as auditoriums, cafeterias, large hallways, or gymnasiums. Wide - span roofs are frequently damaged or destroyed in tornado winds, providing less protection and more risk of injury, than roofs over smaller rooms. Stay away from windows. If outdoors , get inside a building, if possible. If unable to get indoors, lie in a ditch or low - lying area Use arms to protect head and neck and stay low to the ground. Remember: If you are in a ditch or low - lying area, be alert for flash floods that often accompany tornadoes. If in a vehicle , never try to outrun a tornado. Get out of the vehicle immediately and take shelter in a nearby building. If there is no time to go indoors, get out of the vehicle and lie in a ditch or low - lying area between the vehicle and the tornado. Do not take shelter in a ditch downwind of the vehicle. Use arms to protect head and neck. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 114 If in a mobile home , remember mobile homes are particularly vulnerable. A mobile home can overturn very easily even if precautions have been taken to tie down the unit. When a tornado warning is issued, get out of the mobile home quickly; take shelter in a building with a strong foundation. If shelter is not available, lie in a ditch or low - ly ing area between the tornado and mobile home. Do not take shelter in a ditch downwind of the mobile home. If a tornado hits it, debris could fall on top of you. Use arms to protect head and neck. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 115 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan APPENDIX 2 FIRE/SMOKE FIRE SAFETY : Although the potential for fire always exists, routine inspections, maintenance, and training are effective elements in reducing bodily injury, loss of life, and damage to property. All faculty, staff and students should be knowledgeable of those elements that cause fires and of procedures to eliminate them. Everyone should be aware of basic fire safety regulations and conditions that have potential to start a fire, such as the use of extension cords or the improper storage of chemicals, paint, cleaning supplies, rags, paper, etc. Routine inspections and maintenance of fire extinguishers, sprinkler systems, fire hydrants, smoke alarms, and fire - fighting equipment are essential. At the same time, each building should have posted evacuation plans, illuminated exit signs, functional emergency lights, self - closing doors, and any necessary fire safety equipment. Fire and smoke present a danger to individuals within a limited area and usually will not require action of the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) unless the fire is out of control and numerous potential or actual casualties are involved. After defining the hazard area, personnel will be evacuated from buildings by activating the fire alarm syst em and will be moved to a safe distance (at least 500 feet) away to designated areas. The hazard area should then be secured until fire - fighting personnel arrive. Supervisory personnel will make every effort to account for faculty, staff, and students and prevent unauthorized personnel from entering the building. FIRE ALARM : Upon hearing the fire alarm, leave the building using the nearest exit and proceed to a clear pre - designated area that is at least 500 feet away from the affected building. DO NOT USE THE ELEVATORS ! Assist all persons with impaired mobility to the nearest illuminated exit or stairwell to await rescue by trained personnel. Faculty and Staff should notify Police Services of any known student or visitor with impaired mobility that may be unable to independently exit the building. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 116 Department Chairs and Directors of Activities are responsible for having a plan to account for employees and notify Police Services of those missing who may be trapped in the building. EVERY ALARM SHOULD BE TREATED AS A POTENTIAL FIRE. State and local regulations REQUIRE all occupants to leave the building if a fire alarm occurs. Before a fire occurs, there are some simple steps you can follow that will aid your survival. Find the nearest exit followed by an alternate exit to use if the primary outlet is blocked. Ensure that the path out is clear of any obstructions and that all doors leading out of the building can be opened. Find the nearest fire extinguisher and learn how to use it if necessary. IN THE EVENT OF A FIRE: 1. Rescue (to the degree possible) any person in immediate danger. 2. Sound the fire alarm. Pull stations are near each exit on each floor. 3. Call Police Services at 678 - 4357 or 911. (If you are calling from on campus, do not dial '9' and then 911.) They will initiate a conference call with you and the Memphis Fire Department. Stay on the phone until the Memphis Fire Department and Public Safety obtain all information. University locations not on main campus (Millington, Collierville, Chucalissa, etc.) should dial 911 for local Fire and Police response. 4. When the fire alarm sounds, evacuate the building immediately, using the nearest exit. As you exit, close as many doors as possible between you and the fire. Move to an assembly area away from the building (at least 500 feet). 5. Before opening any door, feel it with the back of your hand. If it is hot, do not open it! If it is not hot, open cautiously, bracing yourself against it to slam it shut if you feel a rush of heat. 6. If the closest exit is blocked, go to an alternative exit. If all doors are blocked, exit through a ground floor window, but watch for broken glass. 7. Do not return to the building until an is given by public safety officials. IF YOU BECOME TRAPPED BY THE FIRE: 1. Stay calm; fire fighters will respond quickly to your location. 2. Move as far away from the fire as you can, closing every door between you and the fire. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 117 3. Hang or wave an object from a window or outside the door to attract the attention of rescuers. 4. If smoke enters under the door or around vents, stuff the opening with towels, drapes, or anything available. Soak them with water if possible. 5. Crack open the window at the top to let heat and smoke out and at the bottom to let in fresh air. Stay as close to the floor as possible. Crawl if necessary. DECIDING TO USE A FIRE EXTINGUISHER: If the fire is small enough to be extinguished and you have had extinguisher training , you may elect to use a portable fire extinguisher to put out the fire. If you have any doubts about the size of the fire or your ability to extinguish it, do not try. Evacuate! Never attempt to put out a fire yourself until someone has notified the authorities. Before attempting to fight any fire with an extinguisher, ask yourself the following questions. LEAVE IMMEDIATELY! LEAVE IMMEDIATELY! LEAVE IMMEDIATELY! LEAVE IMMEDIATELY! EXTINGUISH THE FIRE! Can I escape quickly and safely from the area if I attempt to extinguish the fire? Do I have the right type of extinguisher? Is the extinguisher large enough for the fire? Is the area free from other dangers such as hazardous materials and falling debris? No Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 118 To operate a fire extinguisher, remember the acronym P.A.S.S.: P - P ull the pin. Hold the extinguisher with the nozzle pointing away from you, and release the locking mechanism. A - A im low. Point the extinguisher at the base of the fire. S - S queeze the lever slowly and evenly. S - S weep the nozzle from side - to - side. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 119 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan APPENDIX 3 FLOODING IN CASE OF IMMINENT OR ACTUAL FLOODING: If you safely can do so, o Secure vital equipment, records and hazardous materials (chemical, biological and/or radioactive) and move items to a higher level, if feasible. o Shut off all electrical equipment. Secure all laboratory experiments. o Wait for instructions from Police Services. Do not return to your site until you have been instructed to do so by someone from on - site incident command, Police Services or Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S). Report any oil, chemical, biological, radioactive materials or food preparation areas suspected of mixing with the flood waters to EH&S at (901) 678 - 4672/2044/2470. Do not dump flood water down any drain (storm or sanitary) unless approved by EHS staff. Note: Minor or area flooding of campus could be a result of major multiple rainstorms, a water main break, or loss of power to sump pumps. In the case of imminent, weather - related flooding, Police Services and Crisis Management will monitor the National Weather Service and other emergency advisories to determine necessary action. FLOODED AREA - GENERAL SAFETY Be aware of the potential for electrical shock! Wear rubber boots in wet areas. Call Physical Plant (901) 678 - 2699/2705 to turn off all main electrical switches and gas supplies. Do not enter or allow anyone else to enter the building or space until circuits and equipment are tested and proven de - energized by qualified personnel from the Physical Plant Electric Shop. Do not turn power back on until appropriate repairs have been performed and electrical equipment has been inspected and approved by qualified electrical personnel. Electrical equipment used in flooded areas must be protected with Ground Fault Circuit Interrupters (GFCI). After the main power is off, unplug electrical appliances and do not turn on any appliances which have become wet until they are checked for proper operation. Do not use any open flame until the area has been ventilated for the potential presence of natural gas. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 120 Take precautions to prevent contact with any sewage and to isolate the area to prevent con taminants from being tracked to other parts of the building. Occupants not involved in the cleanup must be evacuated from these areas when sewage is present. FLASH FLOODS Most flash flooding is caused by slow - moving thunderstorms, thunderstorms repeatedly moving over the same area, or heavy rains from severe storms. Alerts are issued by the National Weather Service and are classified in two major areas. They are: Flood Watch means conditions are favorable for the development of floods. Flood Warning means flooding is occurring or is imminent in your area. Many more WATCHES are issued than WARNINGS. A WATCH is the first sign a flood may occur, and when one is issued, you should be aware of potential flood hazards. The rule for being safe in flood situations is simple: head for higher ground and stay away from flood waters. Even a shallow depth of fast - moving flood water produces more force than most people imagine. The most dangerous thing you can do is to try walking, swimming, or driving through flood waters. Two feet of water will carry away most automobiles. If the potential for flash flooding is evident, the Department of Physical Plant will perform the following activities: 1. Sandbags will be positioned around possible entry points of low lying areas. 2. Drains will be inspected and cleaned to prevent stoppage and flooding. 3. Locations such as the Arts and Communications Building, Health Center, Chemistry Building, Mitchell Hall, Clement Hall, and Manning Hall will be asked to take special precautions for the protection of building contents given past experiences with flooding in these locations. In particular, occupants of basement areas in these buildings should move files and vulnerable equipment off floors and from bottom drawers. 4. The Physical Plant flood control trailers will be mobilized for quick response. 5. Appropriate E - mail correspondence will be maintained with the campus community until the threat has passed. These instructions were extracted from materials prepared by the National Disaster Education Coalition. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 121 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan APPENDIX 4 LOSS OF BUILDING UTILITIES In case of utility failure immediately call the Physical Plant Facilities at 678 - 2699 or 678 - 2705. If after hours, call Public Safety at 678 - 4357(HELP). Be prepared to give: Building name Floor Room number Nature of problem Person to contact and extension IN CASE OF A MAJOR, CAMPUS - WIDE POWER OUTAGE: Remain calm. Follow directions from Physical Plant or Police Services for immediate action. If evacuation of a building is required, seek out persons with special needs and provide assistance. Laboratory personnel should secure all experiments, unplug electrical equipment (including computers) and shut off research gases prior to evacuating. All chemicals should be stored in their original locations. Fully CLOSE fume hoods. If this is not possible or natural ventilation is inadequate, evacuate the laboratory until the power is restored. Do not use candles, lighters or other types of open flames for illumination purposes. Unplug all electrical equipment (including computers) and turn off the light switches DO NOT UNPLUG YOUR TELEPHONE! Check equipment after power is restored. Keep a flashlight and batteries in key locations throughout your work or living areas. IF PEOPLE ARE TRAPPED IN AN ELEVATOR: 1. Tell passengers to stay calm and that you are getting help. 2. Call 911 and provide information. 3. Stay near the passengers until police or other assistance arrives provided it is safe to stay in the building. 4. Do not try to pry open the elevator or extract people from a trapped elevator car. Plumbing/Floor/Water Leak If you discover leaking water or know the source of a water leak, contact Physical Plant Facilities Operations. Do not walk through standing water due to the potential for electrocution hazards. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 122 Natural Gas Leak If you smell the odor of gas, or if you discover a gas leak, leave the area immediately and contact UofM Police at 911 from campus phones, or 678 - HELP (4357) from off - campus phones. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 123 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan APPENDIX 5 BOMB THREAT OR EXPLOSIVE DEVICE The presence of an explosive device and/or the reception of a bomb threat are situations that the University of Memphis must be prepared to confront in a calm and professional manner. Although many bomb threats turn out to be a prank, they must be taken seriously to ensure the safety of the Students, Faculty, Staff and Visitors at the UofM. A bomb threat could be written, e - mailed, communicated verbally, or received by phone or social media sites. The majority of bomb threats are delivered by telephone. Generally, a bomb threat call is made for one of two reasons: 1. The caller has definite knowledge about the explosive device and wants to minimize personal injury. 2. The caller wants to disrupt normal activities by creating anxiety and panic. IN THE EVENT OF A BOMB OR BOMB THREAT: DO NOT USE PORTABLE SCHOOL OR PUBLIC SAFETY RADIO, CELLULAR PHONE, DIGITAL PHONE, OR ANY OTHER ELECTRONIC DEVICES. THESE DEVICES HAVE THE CAPACITY TO DETONATE AN EXPLOSIVE DEVICE. IN ADDITION, DO NOT TURN THE LIGHTS ON OR OFF BUT HAVE THEM REMAIN IN THEIR CURRENT POSITION. Procedure: A) Person receiving the bomb threat telephone call: 1. While the subject is speaking to you on the phone, attempt to complete the "Bomb Threat Call Checklist" if available. 2. Make every attempt to:  Stay calm and indicate your desire to cooperate with the Subject. DO NOT antagonize or challenge the subject.  Obtain as much information as possible. Prolong the conversation as long as possible. Ask permission to repeat any instructions to make sure they were understood  Attempt to determine the caller's knowledge of the facility. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 124  Identify background noises .  DO NOT HANG UP THE PHONE! Signal to someone nearby to call for assistance, if this is not possible, use another phone to call for assistance. 3. Immediately call UofM Police Services at 911 or 678 - HELP (4357). Inform them of the situation with as much information as available; specifically the location and time the bomb is supposed to explode. Inform your immediate supervisor after informing the police. B) UofM Police Services will: Possibly request those working in the area to assist with the search as they will be more familiar with what does or does not belong there. Consult with appropriate campus administrators, Fire, other law enforcement agencies to evaluate whether the bomb threat is credible and if building evacuation is needed. Request the Threat Call if one was completed. Below are some factors to assist in the determination of the threat level. These factors are to be used as a guide only in conjunction with all of the other available information. Determination of Threat Level : LOW LEVEL - The probable motive is to cause disruption: The Subject is vague in his/her threat, merely stating that there is a bomb at the school, he/she provides no specifics and hangs up quickly. MEDIUM LEVEL - The Subject gives details such as the size, location, or type of bomb. The Subject stays on the line longer and states a motive for the bomb. HIGH LEVEL - The Subject is very detailed and describes the type, power, location or time of detonation. The Subject stays on the line longer or makes multiple calls. The Subject may exhibit advanced knowledge of bombs. In addition, the Subject may make demands such as publicity, money etc. IF AN EVACUATION IS ORDERED: 1. When authorization is given to Police Services personnel, they will begin to evacuate students, faculty, and staff to pre - determined Assembly Areas. Ensure that those with special needs receive assistance in evacuating. 2. Faculty/St aff should complete a visual check of room/building as they exit. Report any unusual objects or activity and do not touch any suspicious items. Wait for Law enforcement to begin search. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 125 4. Establish a command post at least 300 feet from any of the campus buildings. Ensure that it is away from automobiles, refuse containers or mailboxes. Conduct a scan of the area for any suspicious items. Do not use mobile and portable radios or cell phones; employ runners to communicate to Faculty, Staff and Students at Assembly Areas. 5. Affected area remains under control of emergency personnel until building search is completed and all clear signal is given by Police Services personnel or other authorized personnel. 6. In consultation with Police Services, return Students to class when it is deemed safe. 7. Police reports are to be completed on all bomb threats. 8. Debrief Crisis Management Team. C) Faculty/Staff Responsibilities  Stay Calm Complete "Bomb Threat Call Checklist" if you are the initial recipient of the bomb threat. If building evacuation occurs, take any available visitor and student logs. Await direction from Police Services or Crisis Management personnel. IF EVACUATION OCCURS: Have everyone in the room take their personal belongings with them. Instruct Students to turn off their cell phones. Take all information that will assist in accounting for students/visitors and continue to supervise the class.  Perform a quick sweep of classroom, halls used to evacuate and the assembly area.  Report any suspicious items or activity to Police Services or other law enforcement personnel.  Remain at least 300 feet away from buildings until an "ALL CLEAR" announcement is given emergency notification systems or by law enforcement personnel If it appears that the search will be for an extended time, or if weather is a factor, move students to the pre - determined off - campus evacuation area. Do not use cell phones or mobile and portable radios. Staff members should utilize "runners" to communicate with the command center. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 126 AFTER HOURS STAFF RESPONSIBILITIES: Follow faculty/staff responsibilities. Call Police Services at 911 or 678 HELP (4357) via LANDLINE. IF A SUSPICIOUS ITEM IS FOUND : 1. DO NOT APPROACH, MOVE, OR TOUCH ANY SUSPICIOUS ITEM. 2. Report the exact location and an accurate description of the object to UofM Police Services personnel. At this point the incident becomes a police matter and control of the scene transfers. 3. Identify the danger area and immediately evacuate the building. Be sure evacuation takes place away from danger area and at least 300 feet from building. 4. Do not allow re - entry into building until Police Services personnel informs you that it is safe to do so. Event conclusion: 1. Account for all personnel to the degree possible and report any missing persons to Police Services. 2. Complete an After Action Report to determine what improvements, if any, may be required to properly execute this procedure in the future. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 127 Bomb Threat Call Checklist Time and length of the call Name of person taking the call QUESTIONS TO ASK: Record response and repeat in sequence. a. When will the bomb explode? b. Where is the bomb? c. What does it look like? d. What will cause it to explode? e. What building is it in? f. What floor is it on? g. What is your name and address? h. Did you place the bomb? Why? Background sounds: o Cellular phone call o Factory noises o Local call o Long distance call o Music/TV playing o Office sounds o PA system o Restaurant sounds o Talking o Traffic o Weather o Wildlife noises Threat language: o Accent o Angry o Disguised o Incoherent o Laughing The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 128 o Profane o Irrational o Calm o Familiar o Taped message o Message read o Well spoken Caller is: o Female o Male The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 129 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan APPENDIX 6 TRAIN DERAILMENT Why Prepare? A major railroad line bisects the University of Memphis main campus. A significant number of trains travel through the campus on a daily basis. Some of these trains contain large containers of extremely hazardous chemicals. The safety record for these trains has been good. The tracks and the railcars are maintained in good repair. The chance for an accident with a hazardous materials release is small. However, if suc h a release does occur, it could present a very serious risk to residence halls, classrooms, administration buildings and other campus facilities. This information is intended to provide a guide to being prepared to survive such an event. Basically there are two options to consider during a hazardous materials release event: 1. Evacuation to a safe location away from any hazardous chemical plume or any explosive fumes. 2. Sheltering in place, in your room, office or apartment, by making your shelter air tight. Which option you choose will depend on a number of factors and recommendations by emergency response personnel. Knowing and preparing for these options will very likely protect you from serious injury. 1. Evacuation If conditions permit, you may be directed to evacuate your location and move to a safe location. This location may be one of your own choosing or one identified by emergency personnel. Whichever option you choose, you will need to move several miles away from the area until you are authorized to return. If evacuation is the prescribed action, please consider the following: A. If possible, evacuate in your own vehicle. This will provide you with needed transportation during the evacuation period. B. If you do not have or cannot use your own vehicle, the University will summon buses to aid in the evacuation. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 130 C. Evacuate away from the accident location and if possible, at right angles to the wind. D. Remember that an evacuation may last for several hours or even days. Be sure to take essential items with you, medications, some clothing, health aids, telephone contact lists. Do not allow this to delay your evacuation. E. Monitor TigerText, local radio (including WUMR/U - 92) and television for updated information about the accident and evacuation. 2. Sheltering in Place A railroad accident could result in an immediate release of hazardous materials. Wind direction and wind speed could potentially aggravate the hazardous conditions and prevent you from safely evacuating the area. Your only choice in these conditions is to seek shelter within your location. This can be a very effective protective measure; however, it does require some preparation. Your main goal in sheltering in place is to make your location air tight to prevent outside air from entering. To do this prepare a shelter in place kit and instruct all staff, faculty and students on how to use it. The kit should consist of at least the following items: A. Plastic sheeting, large enough to cover all windows. B. Duct type tape to secure the plastic to the windows and to tape the doors. C. Towels or rags to place along the lower edges of exterior doors. D. A flashlight in the event that power has been disrupted. E. A portable radio to monitor local news for instructions and situation updates. F. Your shelter in place location should also have access to a telephone and some food supplies. Sheltering in place is recommended only if evacuation is too dangerous due to the spread of the hazardous substance. How To Shelter In Place If sheltering in place is recommended, you should do the following: 1. Turn off all air conditioners and fans. Physical Plant will turn off building HVAC units. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 131 2. Close and seal all exterior windows and doors using your sheltering kit. 3. Monitor local radio and/or television for details and instructions. First Responder Procedures 1. Police Services will determine if hazardous materials are involved and identify the substance if possible. 2. If there appears to be imminent danger, the officer on scene shall contact the Police Services Dispatch Center who will in turn notify University Administration, UofM Environmental Health and Safety, Memphis Police Department and Memphis Fire Department (if appropriate). 3. Because time is critical, the Director of Public Safety shall have the authority to evacuate any part or all of the campus, or order in - place sheltering procedures. He shall respond based upon current conditions and available information. 4. The Director of Public Safety will activate the Crisis Management Plan and Emergency Operations Center upon approval of the President. 5. Police Services shall keep students and others away from the accident scene and shall discourage onlookers. 6. Faculty and staff are respo nsible for evacuating buildings and clearing the area as instructed by emergency personnel. 7. CMT Operations Group members within the Operations and Planning Sections will respond to the EOC upon notification by Police Services. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 132 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan APPENDIX 7 Demonstrations/Civil Disturbances Most campus demonstrations such as marches, meetings, picketing and rallies are peaceful and non - obstructive. A student demonstration should be allowed to continue unless one or more of the following conditions exist as a result of the demonstration. 1. Interference with the normal operations of the University 2. Prevention of access to office, building or other University facilities. 3. Threat of physical harm to p ersons or damage to University facilities. If any of these conditions exists, University of Memphis Police Services should be notified and will be responsible for contacting and informing the President and other executive administrators. Depending upon the nature of the demonstration, the appropriate procedures listed below should be followed: I. PEACEFUL, NON - OBSTRUCTIVE DEMONSTRATIONS A. Generally, demonstrations of this kind should be allowed to continue. Efforts should be made to conduct University business as normally as possible. B. If demonstrators are asked to leave and refuse to leave by regular closing time: 1. Arrangements should be made by the Director of Public Safety to monitor the situation during non - business hours, or 2. Determination will be mad e to treat the violation of regular closing hours as a disruptive demonstration (see section II). II. NON - VIOLENT, DISRUPTIVE DEMONSTRATIONS A. In the event that the demonstrations block access to University facilities, or interferes with the operation of the University: 1. Demonstrators will be asked to terminate the disruptive activity by the Director of Public Safety and Dean of Students or their designees. 2. The Director of Public Safety and Dean of Students will consider having a photographer available. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 133 3. Key University personnel and student leaders will be asked by the Director of Public Safety and Dean of Students to proceed to the area and propose that the demonstrators desist. 4. The Director of Public Safety and Dean of Students, or their designees will go to the area and ask the demonstrators to leave, or to discontinue the disruptive activities. 5. If the demonstrators persist in the disruptive activity, they will be apprised that failure to discontinue the specified action within a d etermined length of time may result in disciplinary action, including suspension or expulsion, or possible intervention by *civil authorities. Except in extreme emergencies the President will be consulted before such disciplinary actions are taken 6. Efforts should be made to secure positive identification of demonstrators in violation to facilitate later testimony, including photographs if deemed advisable. 7. After consultation with the President by the Director of Public Safety and Dean of Students, the need for an injunction and intervention of civil authorities will be determined. 8. If determination is made to seek the intervention of civil authorities, the demonstrators should be informed. Upon arrival of the Memphis Police Department, the remaining demonstra tors will be warned of the intention to arrest. III. VIOLENT, DISRUPTIVE DEMONSTRATIONS: In the event that a violent demonstration in which injury to persons and damage to property appears imminent, the President, Vice President for Student Affairs, Vice President for Business and Finance, University Counsel and Dean of Students will be notified. A. DURING BUSINESS HOURS: 1. In coordination with the Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students, the Director of Public Safety will contact the Memphis Police Department. 2. If available, the Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students will alert the President, and will call for a photographer to report to an advantageous location for photographing the demonstration. 3. The President, in consultation with the Vice President for Student Affairs, Vice President for Business and Finance, University Counsel, Dean of Students and the Director of Public Safety, will determine the possible need for an injunction. B. AFTER BUSINESS HOURS: 1. The Dir ector of Public Safety should be immediately notified of the disturbance. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 134 2. A Police Officer will investigate the disruption and advise the Director of Public Safety, the Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students of the disturbance. 3. The Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students will: a. Report all circumstances to the President. b. Notify key administrators and if appropriate, the administrator responsible for the building and/or area. c. Arrange for a photographer. d. If necessary the President, or the Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students will advise the Director of Public Safety to call for assistance from the Memphis Police Department. C. The Director of Public Safety reserves the right to call for assistance from the Memphis Police Department without counsel from others if it is deemed to be of paramount importance to the safety of persons involved. D. For information on UofM Policy UM1741 (Access to and Use of Campus Property and Facilities) acce ss on the following link. * Civil authority - (also known as civil government ) is that apparatus of the state other than its military units that enforces law and order The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 135 39 - 17 - 301. Part definitions. As used in this part, unless the context otherwise requires: (1) "Desecrate" means defacing, damaging, polluting or otherwise physically mistreating in a way that the person knows or should know will outrage the sensibilities of an ordinary individual likely to observe or discover the person's action; (2) "Participates" includes: (A) Assembling with or joining a group of three (3) or more persons who riot; (B) Being present, aiding and abetting a riot; or (C) Refusing any lawful order of correctional personnel or other law enforcement officers during the course of a riot; (3) "Riot" means a disturbance in a public place or penal institution as defined in  39 - 16 - 601 involving an assemblage of three (3) or more persons which, by tumultuous and violent conduct, creates grave danger of substantial damage to property or serious bodily injury to persons or substantially obstructs law enforcement or other governmental function; and (4) "Transportation facility" means any conveyance or place used for or in connection with public passenger transportation by air, railroad, motor vehicle or any other method. It includes, but is not limited to, aircraft, watercraft, railroad cars, buses, and air, boat, railroad and bus terminals and stations. 39 - 17 - 302. Riot. (a) A person commits an offense who knowingly participates in a riot. (b) A violation of this section is a Class A misdemeanor. 39 - 17 - 303. Aggravated riot. (a) A person commits an offense who: (1) Knowingly participates in a riot; and (2) As a result of the riot a person other than one (1) of the participants suffers bodily injury or substantial property damage occurs. (b) A violation of this section is a Class E felony. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 136 39 - 17 - 305. Disorderly conduct. (a) A person commits an offense who, in a public place and with intent to cause public annoyance or alarm: (1) Engages in fighting or in violent or threatening behavior; (2) Refuses to obey an official order to disperse issued to maintain public safety in dangerous proximity to a fire, hazard or other emergency; or (3) Creates a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act that serves no legitimate purpose. (b) A person also violates this section who makes unreasonable noise that prevents others from carrying on lawful activities. (c) A violation of this section is a Class C misdemeanor. 39 - 17 - 306. Disrupting meeting or procession. (a) A person commits an offense if, with the intent to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting, procession, or gathering, the person substantially obstructs or interferes with the meeting, procession, or gathering by physical action or verbal utterance. (b) A violation of this section is a Class B misdemeanor. 39 - 17 - 307. Obstructing highway or other passageway. (a) A person commits an offense who, without legal privilege, intentionally, knowingly or recklessly: (1) Obstructs a highway, street, sidewalk, railway, waterway, elevator, aisle, or hallway to which the public, or a substantial portion of the public, has access; or any other place used for the passage of pe rsons, vehicles or conveyances, whether the obstruction arises from the person's acts alone or from the person's acts and the acts of others; or (2) Disobeys a reasonable request or order to move issued by a person known to be a law enforcement officer, a firefighter, or a person with authority to control the use of the premises to: (A) Prevent obstruction of a highway or passageway; or (B) Maintain public safety by dispersing those gathered in dangerous proximity to a fire, riot or other hazard. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 137 (b) For purposes of this section, "obstruct" means to render impassable or to render passage unreasonably inconvenient or potentially injurious to persons or property. (c) An offense under this section is a Class C misdemeanor. (d) (1) It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section, which must be proven by a preponderance of the evidence, that: (A) Solicitation and collection of charitable donations at a highway or street intersection were undertaken by members of an organization that has received a determination of exemption from the internal revenue service under 26 U.S.C.  501(c)(3) or (4); (B) The members of the organization undertook reasonable and prudent precautions to prevent both disruption of traffic flow and injury to person or property; and (C) The solicitation and collection at the specific time and place and the specific precautions were proposed in advance to, and received the prior written approval of, the administrative head of the local law enforcement agency in whose jurisdiction the inte rsection is located. (2) The provisions of this subsection (d) do not apply in any county having a population of not less than eighty thousand (80,000) nor more than eighty - three thousand (83,000), according to the 1990 federal census or any subsequent federal census. (3) No liability for any accident or other occurrence that arises from solicitations shall attach to the sheriff or government involved in issuing the permit, but shall be borne solely by the organization obtaining the permit. (4) The provisions of this subsection (d) shall not be construed to supersede or affect any ordinance relative to collecting donations at public intersections in effect on July 1, 1993. (5) Any municipality by ordinance may prohibit roadblocks within its corporate limits notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection (d). The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 138 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan APPENDIX 8 EARTHQUAKES During a major earthquake, you may experience a shaking that starts out to be gentle and within a second or two grows violent and knocks you off your feet. OR You may be jarred first by a violent jolt - as though your building was hit by a truck. A second or two later you'll feel the shaking and, as in the first example, you will find it very difficult (if not impossible) to move from one room to another. During the quake 1. If you are indoors, stay there. Get under a desk or table, or stand in a doorway or corner. Stay clear of windows, bookcases, mirrors and fireplaces. If possible extinguish any open flames or sources of ignition immediately. 2. If you are outside, get into an open area away from trees, buildings, walls and power lines. 3. If in a high - rise building, stay there. Stay away from windows and outside walls. Get under a desk or table. Do not use elevators ! 4. If in a crowded public place, do not rush for doors. Move away from display shelves containing objects that could fall. 5. If driving, pull over to the side of the road and stop. Avoid overpasses and power lines. Stay inside the vehicle until the shaking is over. If the earthquake has been severe, do not attempt to cross damaged bridges, overpasses or damaged sections of road. After the quake 1. Check for injuries. Do not move seriously injured individuals unless they are in immediate danger. Help people who are trapped by furniture or other items that do not require heavy tools to move. Rescue and emergency medical crews may not be readily available. 2. Do not use the telephone immediately unless there is a serious injury, fire or gas leak. 3. If you suspect or know that someone is trapped in the building contact UofM Police Services Dispatch Center at 911 or 678 - HELP (4357) or, in person. Have someone post a message at the front of the building noting the time, date, number of victims and their last known locat ion in the building. 4. Always wear boots or heavy - duty shoes when venturing out after an earthquake. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 139 5. Check for gas and water leaks, broken electrical wiring and broken sewage lines. Check building for cracks and damage. If there is gas leaking, extinguish all sources of ignition and do not turn on or off any electrical switches in the area. Call Physical Plant Facilities Operations for assistance immediately. If there is damage, report it to Physical Plant Facilities Operations at 678 - 26 99/2705 or UofM Police Services Dispatch Center at 911 or 678 - HELP (4357). Attempt to block off damaged areas to keep people away from the hazard until additional help can arrive. 6. Do not touch downed power lines or damaged building equipment. 7. Clean up spilled medicines, bleaches, gasoline or other chemicals. If spill is significant, utilize the emergency procedure as outlined in this handbook for spills. 8. If building is damaged, evacuate and attempt to secure the building against entry. Notify UofM Police Services Dispatch Center by calling 911 or 678 - HELP and Physical Plant Facilities Operations at 678 - 2699/2705 of the damage and evacuation. Do not reenter damaged buildings. 9. If you have to evacuate, post a message in clear view stating where you can be found. List reunion points so that others looking for you later can find you. If you have a University pager, radio or cellular phone, take them with you along with batteries and chargers if available. This may be your only method of communication for several hours. 10. Turn on a battery powered radio for damage reports and information. Check AM station 91.7 (WUMR) for campus information. 11. Do not use your vehicle unless there is an emergency. Keep the streets clear for emergency vehicles. 12. Be prepared for aftershocks. Aftershocks are usually smaller than the main quake but may be large enough to do additional damage to structures weakened during the main shock. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 140 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan APPENDIX 9 BIOHAZARD SPILL PROCEDURE IN THE EVENT OF AN UNCONFINED SPILL: 1. Alert people in the immediate area of the spill. 2. Protect personnel a. Evacuate the area (if appropriate) . b. Decontaminate personnel, and place contaminated clothing in appropriate biohazard bag for autoclaving or disposal. c. Post appropriate warning signs. 3. Call the lab supervisor, emergency coordinator, and/or Environmental Health and Safety (4672, 2740, or 2044) for additional guidance. 4. Stabilize and decontaminate the spill (unless there is risk to personal safety) . a. Allow aerosols to settle before reentering spill area (approx. 30 minutes). b. Cover spill with dry paper towel(s), and soak with appropriate disinfectant. c. Add additional disinfectant from outer edge of spill. d. Allow at least 20 minutes for disinfectant to a ct. e. Contain and appropriately dispose of spill debris. f. Disinfect other contaminated items or bag for autoclaving or disposal. For spills too large or too hazardous for safe clean - up, or fire, call HELP (4357) for assistance. NOTE: When reporting a biohazard incident: a. Give the location, b. Identify the biological agent that was spilled (spell it) , c. Estimate the quantity spilled, d. Note any injuries or fire, and e. Give your name and phone number. Emergency Coordinator: Supervisor: Location of Fire Extinguisher: Location of Fire Alarm: Location of Disinfectant and Spill Control Materials: The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 141 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan APPENDIX 10 CHEMICAL SPILL IN THE EVENT OF A SPILL: 1. Alert people in immediate area of spill. 2. Avoid breathing vapors from spill. 3. Evacuate the area (if appropriate) . 4. Stabilize the spill (unless there is risk to personal safety) . a. Extinguish all ignition sources. b. Prevent the spill from spreading by using diking or sorbents (be especially careful to keep spills out of drains) . 5. Call the supervisor or emergency coordinator and consult the Safety Data Sheet (SDS) for appropriate spill control procedure and personal protective equipment. Call Environmental Health and Safety at 678 - 4672, 2740 or 2044 for additional guidance. 6. Attend to injured or contaminated persons and remove them from exposure. 7. Clean up small spills under supervisor's guidance (never work alone) . a. Neutralize spill and decontaminate following SDS recommendations. b. Contain waste, label, and hold for disposal. 8. For large spills, spills too hazardous for safe clean - up, or fire, call HELP (4357) for Memphis Fire Department or Emergency Response Service. Note: When reporting a hazardous material incident: a. Give the location, b. Identify the chemical that was spilled (spell it) , c. Estimate the quantity spilled, d. Note any injuries or fire, and e. Give your name and phone number. Emergency Coordinator: Supervisor: Location of Fire Extinguisher: Location of Fire Alarm: Location of Spill Control Equipment: Notes and Precautions: The range and quantity of hazardous substances used in laboratories require pre - planning to respond safely to chemical spills. The cleanup of a chemical spill should only be done by knowledgeable and experienced personnel who have received appropriate training. Spill kits with instructions, absorbents, reactants and protective equipment should be available to clean up minor spills. A minor chemical spill is one that the laboratory staff is capable of handling safely without the assistance of safety and emergency personnel. A major chemical spill requires active assistance from emergency personnel. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 142 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan APPENDIX 1 1 ENVIRONMENTAL SPILL IF A SPILL OCCURS AND IT IS SAFE TO RESPOND: Secure the area with tape, rope or warning signs. Inform your supervisor as well as others of the spill. Block any drains that could be impacted by the spill with a spill mat, drain plug, berm or other chemically compatible material on hand. IF A SPILL OCCURS AND IT IS UNSAFE TO RESPOND: For large spills, spills too hazardous for safe clean - up, or fire, call HELP (4357) for Memphis Fire Department or Emergency Response Service. Where spilled chemicals leave University boundaries , the applicability of Section 304 of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA Title III), and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) must be determined. When required, regulatory agencies must be notified immediately . A determination may be made by comparing the chemical name and quantity released to the SARA and CERCLA lists found in Appendix A to 40 CFR 355 or other sources. Immedia te notification of a reportable release must be made to: Shelby County Office of Preparedness at 222 - 6700. Tennessee Emergency Management Agency at 1 - 800 - 262 - 3300 National Response Center at 1 - 800 - 424 - 8802 Based on data from the department responsible for the spill, contents of the verbal notification should include one of the following: "This is The University of Memphis in Memphis, Tennessee. We have a hazardous chemical release in progress and request emergency response from fire and other agencies. The release includes a (choose one) Title III Extremely Hazardous Substance or a CERCLA Hazardous Substance. The following information is available: (fill in using the list below)" or "This is The University of Memphis in Memphis, Tennessee. This call is to relay information only, in compliance with Title III reporting requirements. We have had a reportable release, but do not believe that it warrants emergency response. The following information is available: (fill in using the list below)" The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 143 Chemical name Quantity of chemical released Date and time of release Duration of release Release was into (choose one) Air, Water, Sewer, Ground Anticipated acute or chronic health risks, and advice on medical attention for exposed individuals (read from SDS) Proper precautions to take, including evacuation (read from SDS) Name and phone number of person to contact for information Safety Data Sheets (SDSs), if unavailable from the department possessing the hazardous material, are available at or through the EH&S web page at . A viewer should be installed prior to actual need. Note: Rubber mats, temporary drain plugs, or berms should be kept in the area so drains can be blocked immediately. For small spills, use chemical spill pillows or absorbent materials. Other absorbents that can be utilized to clean up a chemical spill are vermiculite and oil - dry. Avoid the use of cat litter -- it is relatively non - absorbent and increases waste volume. Be Prepared Keep updated emergency response procedures for your area. Post a list of contacts in case of a spill. Post an evacuation route. List the location of spill response materials. Train employees in advance on when and how to properly use spill response materials. Assign a person to periodically test cleanup equipment and maintain its inventory. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 144 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan APPENDIX 12 RADIOLOGICAL SPILL Each area containing radioisotopes in liquid form must conspicuously post a spill control procedure and have a readily accessible spill control kit which includes vermiculite, absorbents, or other material suitable for diking and absorbing spills, a chemical resistant container for holding waste, appropriate personal protective equipment, and materials such as sodium bicarbonate or citric acid (when appropriate) for neutralizing spills. In the event of a spill or other accident involving radiation or radioactive materials, the following procedures should be followed in addition to guidance provided in the posted spill control procedure. Minor Spills or Contamination of Surfaces The Laboratory supervisor will notify all personnel in the vicinity immediately. The extent of contamination will be determined and appropriate measures taken to prevent further spread. Individuals in the room or area who might be contaminated will be checked and instructed to change clothing and wash affected areas if necessary. Contaminated surfaces will be cleaned by laboratory personnel. A report will be made to the Radiation Safety Officer. Major Spills Involving Radiation Hazard to Personnel The laboratory supervisor or other person in charge of the laboratory will take charge of the emergency. All personnel in the room or area will be notified to vacate immediately. Any action that can be taken immediately to prevent the spread of contamination such as closing doors, shutting off ventilating systems, spreading absorbent material, etc., will be taken provided such action does not cause excess radiation exposure or other danger to individuals involved. The person in charge will notify the Radiation Safety Officer at 678 - 4672 or UofM Police Services (678 - HELP) if the accident occurs during other than normal working hours. Individuals involved will be checked for contamination and instructed to change clothing and wash affected areas if necessary. If there are injuries requiring medical attention, the UofM Student Health Center will be notified and if necessary the victim(s) will be transported to the Regional Medical Center at Memphis by Memphis Fire Department Ambulance Service. Conta minated areas will be defined and posted. A clean - up plan will be devised and decontamination will proceed as soon as practicable. An investigation will be made by the RSO and/or the Radiation Safety Committee. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 145 Accidents Involving the Release of Airborne Radioactive Materials All personnel will be notified to vacate the area. With the exception of laboratory exhaust systems, all fans and ventilating systems will be shut down, and the individual in charge will, if possible, secure all doors and vents and attempt to isolate and seal the area. Individuals involved will be checked for contamination and instructed to change clothing and wash affected areas if necessary. The individual in charge will notify the Radiation Safety Office (678 - 4672) or the UofM Police Services (678 - HELP). The hazard will be evaluated and equipment necessary for safe re - entry will be obtained. The area will be surveyed and decontamination will be performed as soon as practicable. Accidents Involving Possible Overexposure of Personnel All accidents involving the possible overexposure of personnel must be reported to the Radiation Safety Officer immediately. Operations related to the possible overexposure must be suspended until authorized to resume by the RSO or Radiation Safety Committee. Follow - up Procedures for All Incidents A report will be made to the Radiation Safety Officer by the laboratory supervisor. Except for very minor incidents, an investigation will be conducted by the RSO and/or RSC. The RSC will determine what actions are necessary or desirable to prevent further occurrences. Where required, a report will be submitted to appropriate regulatory agencies by the RSO. If there is a possibility that any individual has ingested or inhaled radioactive material, procedures will be initiated to determine the extent of internal contamination and the radiation dose received. Procedures such as urine or fecal counts may be done locally under supervision of the RSO. If additional procedures such as whole - body counting are required, the individual will be transported to a facility capable of the required procedure. Medical assistance will be obtained if necessary. All clean - up work will be done in a manner that will minimize the exposure of personn el and spread of contamination. Any release of radioactive material during clean - up will conform to regulatory requirements. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 146 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan APPENDIX 13 ACTIVE SHOOTER Introduction: An active shooter is a person who appears to be actively engaged in killing or attempting to kill people in a populated area; in most cases active shooters use firearm(s) and there is no pattern or method to their selection of victims. These situations are dynamic and evolve rap idly, demanding immediate deployment of law enforcement resources to stop the shooting and mitigate harm to innocent victims. This document provides guidance to faculty, staff, and students who may be caught in an active shooter situation, and describes what to expect from responding police officers. Guidance to faculty, staff, and students: In general, how you respond to an active shooter will be dictated by the specific circumstances of the encounter, bearing in mind there could be more than one shooter involved in the same situation. If you find yourself involved in an active shooter situation, try to remain calm and use these guidelines to help you plan a strategy for survival. If an active shooter is outside your building: Proceed to a room that can be locked, close and lock all the windows and doors, and turn off all the lights; if possible, get everyone down on the floor and ensure that no one is visible from outside the room. One person in the room should call 911 or 678 - HELP (4357), advi se the dispatcher of what is taking place, and inform him/her of your location; remain in place until the police, or a campus administrator known to you, gives the announcement. Unfamiliar voices may be the shooter attempting to lure victims from their safe space; do not respond to any voice commands until you can verify with certainty they are being issued by a police officer. If an active shooter is in the same building you are: Determine if the room you are in can be locked and if so, follow the same procedure described in the previous paragraph. If you cannot lock the room, determine if there is a nearby location that you can reach safely and can be secured, or if you can safely exit the building. If you cannot safely exit the room or building, quickly move to the same wall as the interior door , as far away from the door as possible. Quietly put something (desks, file cabinets, chairs, etc.) between you and the assailant. If several individuals are in the room, space yourselves apart to avoid becoming a for the assailant. Refrain from creating any loud noises, and place your cell phone mode so it does not ring audibly and reveal your location. If you decide to move from your current location, be sure to follow the instructions outlined below. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 147 If an active shooter enters your office or classroom: Try to remain calm. Dial 911 or 678 - HELP (4357), if possible, and alert police to the location; if you cannot speak, leave the line open so the dispatcher can listen to what is taking place. If there is no opportunity for escape or hiding, it might be possible to negotiate with the shooter; attempting to overpower the shooter with force should be considered a very last resort , after a ll other options have been exhausted. If the shooter leaves the area, proceed immediately to a safer place and do not touch anything that was in the vicinity of the shooter. No matter what the circumstances, if you decide to flee during an active shooting situation, make sure you have an escape route and plan in mind. Do not attempt to carry anything while fleeing; move quickly, keep your hands visible, and follow the instructions of any police officers you may encounter. Do not attempt to remove injured people; instead, leave wounded victims where they are and notify authorities of their location as soon as possible. Do not try to drive off campus until advised it is safe to do so by police services or campus administrators. What to expect from responding police officers Police officers responding to an active shooter are trained rapid procedures and proceed immediately to the area in which shots were last heard; their purpose is to stop the shooting as quickly as possible. The f irst responding officers will normally be in teams of four (4); they may be dressed in regular patrol uniforms, or they may be wearing external bulletproof vests, Kevlar helmets, and other tactical equipment. The officers may be armed with rifles, shotguns, or handguns, and might be using pepper spray or tear gas to control the situation. Regardless of how they appear, remain calm, do as the officers tell you , and do not be afraid of them. Put down any bags or packages you may be carrying and keep your hands visible at all times; if you know where the shooter is, tell the officers. Be aware, as you are attempting to exit the area, responding officers may not recognize you, and may need to confirm your identity before allowing you to proceed. The first officers to arrive will not stop to aid injured people; rescue teams composed of other officers and emergency medical personnel will follow the first officers into secured areas to treat and remove injured persons. Keep in mind that even once you have escaped to a safer location, the entire area is still a crime scene; police will usually not let anyone leave until the situation is fully under control and all witnesses have been identified and questioned. Until you are released, remain at whatever assembly point authorities designate. Subsequent Procedures/Information We cannot predict the origin of the next threat; assailants in incidents across the nation have been students, employees, and non - students alike. In many cases, there were no obvious specific targets and the victims were unaware that they were a target until attacked. Being aware of your surroundings, taking common sense precautions, and heeding any warning information can help protect you and other members of the campus community. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 148 General Appendices The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 149 APPENDIX 14 EOC Staff Assignment Form Function or Group Primary 1 st Alternate 2 nd Alternate CMT Policy Group Academic Programs EOC Director Public Information Officer Safety Officer Legal Counsel Internal Liaisons External Liaisons Operations Section Chief Police Services Physical Plant EH&S Information Technology Residence Life Animal Care Facilities CERT Team Liaison Emergency Staff Services The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 150 Appendix 14 EOC Staff Assignment Form Function or Group Primary 1 st Alternate 2 nd Alternate Planning Section Chief Situation Status Damage Assessment Environmental Emergency Projects Student Crises Counseling Emergency Preparedness Employee Safety and Health Situation Status Building Inspectors Emergency Projects Logistics Section Chief Student Health Services Resource Procurement Communications Staff & Volunteers Transportation Services, Vehicles The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 151 Appendix 14 EOC Staff Assignment Form Function or Group Primary 1 st Alternate 2 nd Alternate Emergency Food, Water and Sanitation Medical Utilities Housing Site Inventory Finance/Administration Section Chief Insurance/Claims Emergency Accounting Cost Recovery Team When an emergency occurs, the President will determine if the EOC is to be activated and, if activated, which positions will be staffed for the emergency response (in consultation with the EOC Director and/or Incident Commander). Individuals contacted for assignment as EOC staff should respond to the Primary EOC immediately. Anyone unable to respond must contact Police Services at 678 - 4357. The EOC Staff Assignment Form will be completed upon arrival of assigned staff. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 152 Emergency Support Functions Support Function EOC # Coordinator Alternate(s) EOC Director TBD Bruce Harber Derek Myers P IO 678 - 6060 Tammy Hedges Jamie Russell Liaison TBD Roy Bowery Courtney Orians ESF 1 Transportation 678 - 6037 Angela Floyd Tommy Miller ESF 2 Communications 678 - 5909 Mark Reavis Becky Amos ESF 3 Infrastructure 678 - 6098 **Joel Mooney PP AVP ESF 4 Firefighting TBD Tom Eadie Eric Tyge ESF 5 Info. and Planning 678 - 5225 ***Kevin Langellier Jeanine Rakow ESF 6 Human Services 678 - 5954 Danny Armitage Ryan Van Dusen , Melanie Murry ESF 7 Resource Support 678 - 6095 Canty Robbins TBD ESF 8 Health & Medical 678 - 5938 Kathy Cates Joy Hoffman ESF 9 Search & Rescue 678 - 6101 Ray Craft Kevin Langellier ESF 10 HazMat Response 678 - 5950 Al Simpson Erik Tyge ESF 11 Emergency Food 678 - 6074 Aretha Milligan Asso Dn Stdts - ResLife & DinServ ESF 12 Energy Systems 678 - 5910 Charles Black TBD ESF 13 Safety & Security 678 - 6073 Derek Myers Kevin Langellier ESF 14 Donations/Volunteers 678 - 5917 M. Alam Patrica Polania ESF 15 Recovery 678 - 6085 ****Jeannie Smith Lorrean Lim, Bernard McGhee Section Chiefs ** Logistics *** Planning **** Finance & Administration The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 153 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 154 APPENDIX 16 GUIDELINES FOR USE AND TESTING OF THE OUTDOOR WARNING SYSTEM Purpose of Outdoor Warning System The outdoor warning system is intended to alert the campus community of emergencies that make it unsafe to be outdoors and require those outside to seek immediate shelter. The most likely cause of these unsafe outdoor conditions is severe weather, but other causes may include the unlikely occurrences of an environmental hazard or other emergencies. The system is not designed to penetrate indoors within buildings. As such, persons who are safely within a building should remain there. The underlying intent for sounding the sirens is the same in all emergencies: shelter now and obtain more About the Outdoor Warning System The system is composed of three speaker poles. Two are located on main campus and one on the Park Avenue Campus. In addition, one-way Informers have been installed within key facilities on campus that allow direct communication from emergency responders to those facilities. The entire system is operated and activated by the University of Memphis Police Services dispatch. The speakers are equipped with both siren/tone and voice command capabilities. When the warning system is activated, a brief siren/tone will be transmitted, followed by voice instructions, and then a longer siren/tone. It is recognized that the voice commands may not be completely understandable throughout the campus, and the underlying intent for sounding the sirens is the same in all emergencies: shelter now and obtain more Whenever the system is activated, the following must be contacted: Shelby County Office of Preparedness Dispatch (901) 515 -2525 Memphis Police Department Central Dispatch Service Desk (901) 543 -2700 Use of Outdoor Warning System The outdoor warning system is activated for emergencies that could potentially impact or present imminent danger to the main or Park Avenue campuses. Where available, the Informers shall be used in conjunction with the outdoor warning system to provide the same notification for persons within specific buildings. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 155 Criteria for Activation Tornado. When there is a tornado warning issued for Shelby County, the outdoor warning system will be activated. Additional information specific to area of immediate threat will be disseminated via TigerText, Social Media sites (Facebook, Twitter) and email. This policy will apply 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, whether classes are in session or not. All Informers will also be activated in the event of a tornado warning. The system will sound as long as the threat exists. Other Emergencies or Critical Announcements. On occasion, the Outdoor Warning System may be utilized to make other critical announcements, including for other severe weather warnings. In these cases, Police Services may use one of the pre-recorded messages or communicate directly via the system. The Director of Public Safety or designee must authorize the use of the system under these circumstances. System Testing FEMA recommends regularly scheduled tests of warning systems accompanied by advance publicity to inform the public of the tests. The purpose for testing is two-fold: to ensure that the system is working properly and so that the campus community can hear the system in action so that they become familiar with the system. The outdoor warning system will be tested in two ways: A silent test (no audible sound) will be conducted weekly. These silent tests help ensure that the equipment is operational without disruption. These tests will be scheduled by Police Services to ensure that responsibility rotates among eachdispatch shift. No public notice is required for the silent tests. A full-scale (audible) test will be conducted once per month with advance publicity. These tests will take place on the first Wednesday of every month, alternating during the day and evening to ensure that a variety of students and faculty are on campus to hear the test. The daytime test will be conducted at noon; the evening test will be conducted at 6:00 pm. System tests will last approximately 3 minutes, starting with a brief tone, followed by voice instructions advising that is only a by a longer siren/tone. The Informers will be tested at the same time. No action is expected during the monthly test. Toavoid confusion, monthly tests will be cancelled whenever there is a chance of severe weather on the scheduled test day. 1 Effective October 1, 2007, the National Weather Service is issuing storm based warnings versus warnings by an entire county. This is accomplished by drawing a polygon in the expected path of the severe storm. The polygon represents an area where the maximum threat for severe weather exists and is defined by a shape with at least four sides. The warned area is defined by latitude and longitude coordinates and depicted by polygons. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 156 Tables The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 157 Table 1 - A University of Memphis EOC Management Functions Role Summary of Responsibilities Executive Leadership (CMT - Policy Group) (Academic Affairs) Provide executive leadership to the University during emergencies in which academic and research programs are interrupted or normal business cannot be conducted. Provide executive coordination with office and Board of Regents. Give direction and coordination to the Faculty Senate, Deans and Directors of Research and University Programs and the CMT Operations Group/EOC Director. Refer to Checklist 1 With the advice of the EOC Section Chiefs, provide overall strategy for the EOC. Reviews and approves overall priorities and action strategies for the emergency response. Works with and support the Public Information Officer in the development and delivery of messages. Coordinates and communicates as necessary with the CMT - Policy Group and other University groups regarding the UofM Campus EOC operations. Oversee response and recovery operations. Activate the EOC, lead the EOC Action Plan, and deactivate as conditions return to normal. Have the delegated authority to act in the best interest of the University and the goals of emergency response and recovery, on behalf of the CMT - Policy Group during immediate response operations. This position is always activated . Refer to Checklist 2 EOC Director Line of Succession (Director for Public Safety) (Emergency Preparedness Coordinator) (Director EH&S) (VP for Business & Finance) (others appointed by the University President) Official Campus Communications (Public Information Officer) (Crisis Communications Team) Manage all official communication from the University, including internal messages to Faculty, Staff, Students, Employees, etc.; media; external communication other than operational coordination. Refer to Checklist 6 Safety Officer (Physical Plant Employee Safety and Health) Develop and recommend measures for assuring personnel safety, monitor /or anticipate hazardous and unsafe situations. Only one Safety Officer will be assigned for each incident. Legal Assistance (Office of Legal Counsel) This position will be available for advice and consultation on all legal matters involving the emergency response activities. This position may not be physically present in the EOC, but must be available electronically (via phone) to the EOC and/or Policy Group members . Internal Liaisons (Vice or Assistant Vice Provost for Extended Programs) Establish communications with representatives from: UofM Millington UofM Lambuth UofM Collierville UofM Park Ave. Campus UofM Chucalissa UofM Jackson UofM Dyersburg Refer to Checklist 4 External Liaisons (Office of the President) (Office of the Provost) Establish communications with representatives from outside public agencies, including the City of Memphis, Shelby County and the State of TN. May include liaisons with other districts, public and private agencies e.g. American Red Cross, Salvation Army and United Way. Refer to Checklist 5 EOC Administration and Support Staff (Volunteers and/or unassigned staff members) Provide staff support to the EOC. Assist with set -up of the EOC and coordinate internal operations. May provide staff support to all functions and positions in the EOC, regardless of department . These positions are always activated. Refer to Checklist 3 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 158 Table 1 - B University of Memphis EOC Operations Functions Role Summary of Responsibilities Operations Section Chief Provide overall direction, management and coordination for all operational functions of the EOC that are part of the Operations Team. Establish operational priorities and strategies. Coordinate to ensure effective field incident response and the management of operational resources. Provide senior operational representation to the EOC Director. This position is always activated . Serves as an alternate to the EOC Director. Refer to Checklist 7 Public Safety (Police Services) Responsible for managing police functional operations at the EOC. Serves as the Operations Section Chief for incidents in which the police field units are the Incident Commanders. Coordinates general field assignment with the Police Department Command Center and may, as needed, communicate directly with field Incident Commanders and u nits. Has the lead for the Operational Action Plan for law enforcement, security, traffic control, access control, and crime scene preservation. Coordinates with the county Medical Examiner's office for incidents involving fatalities. Has primary authority for establishing priority for field response and police resource allocation. Responsible for managing search and rescue and fire suppression, if the Memphis Fire Department is not immediately available. Refer to Checklist 8 Communications & Computer Services Support (Information Technology Services) (Physical Plant) Coordinates between UofM Information Technology EOC Logistics position and other EOC positions. Provides status of campus communications/computing services for disaster response. Plans for and establishes alternate and emergency computing in support of the EOC and critical campus operations. Maintains, operates, and deploys emergency communication tools. Provides technical support for PIO and Crisis Communications. Refer to Checklists 9, 13 and 28 Environmental Assessments (Environmental Safety & Health) (School of Public Health) Manage and coordinate the environmental health and safety functions of the emergency response on the main campus and provide consultation for emergency response at other UofM locations. This includes providing input for suspected problems with hazardous chemical, biological or radiological materials or spills, or basic public health concerns related to contaminated water, sewage or air contaminants. Provide consultation to assist in the assessment of unsafe conditions. Manage and coordinate on - site hazard assessments. Coordinate with HazMat contractors consistent with EOC priorities. Advise and provide information to other campus departments and emerg ency response personnel on the safety and health of planned operations and responses. Provide input for the Operational Action Plan for evaluating and prioritizing response operations relative to hazardous situations, fire risks, and health and environmental risks. Refer to Checklist 10 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 159 Table 1 B continued University of Memphis EOC Operations Functions Role Summary of Responsibilities Employee Safety and Health (Physical Plant) Develop and recommend measures for assuring personnel safety, monitor /or anticipate hazardous and unsafe situations. Serve as Safety Officer when required. Refer to Checklist 9 Campus Emergency Response Team (CERT) Liaison This position, staffed by a trained UofM Campus Emergency Response Team (CERT) member, will act as the primary EOC on - site liaison between the various building - specific, trained UofM CERT team members and the EOC. Refer to Checklist 17 Care and Control of Research Animals (Research Support Services Animal Care Facilities) Responsible for care, safety and security of University animals. Will serve as a liaison between the EOC and Animal Care Facilities staff responding to the emergency. Collaborates with Police Services to ensure security and protection of sensitive research material. Refer to Checklist 11 Facility Services Analysis and Intelligence (Physical Plant) Responsible for managing and coordinating the prioritized response and exchange of operational information for all buildings, power and water utilities, roadways and grounds with the Physical Plant Response Center. Has the lead in Operational Action Planning for emergency inspections, repair and restoration operations for all campus power and water utilities, facilities, roadways and grou nds. Assists with emergency power and support for all field operations and the EOC. Is responsible for providing reports from outside utilities and transitioning emergency operations to clean - up and repair procedures. Will establish liaisons with outside agencies to provide emergency services to the University if required. Refer to Checklist 9 Medical Emergency First Aid Services (Student Health Services) (Lowenberg School of Nursing) The major emphasis is maintaining, restoring and/or improving the physical and emotional health and well - being of the campus community during or in the aftermath of a disaster . Refer to Checklist 12 Care, Shelter, and Emergency Services (Residence Life & Dining Services) (Student Affairs) (Space Planning & Utilization) (Human Resources) Identify locations and resources necessary to provide care, sheltering and emergency transportation for members of the campus community displaced by an emergency. Refer to Checklists 14, 15, and 16 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 160 Table 1 - C University of Memphis EOC Planning Functions Role Summary of Responsibilities Planning Section Chief Provide for overall management and analysis of disaster/incident information and assessment of impact and damage to the University systems, properties, facilities and capability to occupy buildings. Provide analysis and consultation regarding extended operations and the impacts of the emergency. Runs the hourly EOC Section Chief Planning meetings. Manages the receipt, posting, tracking and documentation of disaster/incident information. Support the financial accounting of all incurred costs and estimated expenditures. This position is always activated whenever there is significant information, extended operations Refer to Checklist 18 Crisis Management and Situation Status (Emergency Preparedness Coordinator) (Business and Finance) Supervise the process of collecting, analyzing, and displaying situational information; preparing periodic situational reports; preparing and distributing the EOC Action Plan and facilitating the action planning meeting; conducting advance planning activities; providing technical support services to the various EOC Sections and Units, and documenting and maintaining files on all EOC activities. Information is needed to: Understand the current situation Predict probable course of incident events Prepare alternative strategies for the incident Responsibility for receiving, analyzing, posting, tracking and assessing information regarding the situation, damage and interruption to the University properties and programs. Maintains a general EOC log documenting major actions and decisions of the EOC. Refer to Checklists 19 Damage Assessment and Emergency Projects (Physical Plant) (Finance and Administration) Determine the magnitude and impact of an event's damage to University infrastructure; also identify any unmet needs that may require immediate attention. Implements and manages maintenance, repair and construction projects for critical University services and facilities, as authorized by the EOC Director Refer to Checklist 20 and 21 Short and Long Term Recovery (Policy Group) (ITD) Begin implementation of disaster recovery plans to protect the University in the event that all or part of its operations is rendered unusable. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 161 Table 1 - D University of Memphis EOC Logistics Functions Role Summary of Responsibilities Logistics Section Chief Provide overall management of resource and logistical support for operations and planning functions. Access and procure resources to support the emergency response and operations, which require support beyond normal department assets. Support the EOC activation and temporary emergency care for people and workers. Coordinate the management of volunteer resources to support emergency operations with Human Resources. Coordinate with the Finance Team to ensure appropriate processes for procurement and contracting. Refer to Checklist 22 Care and Shelter See Table 1B Transportation Services, Vehicles (Parking & Transportation Services) Responsible for providing transportation to support emergency operations, including transport of emergency personnel, equipment and supplies, and injured persons. Manage the campus pool vehicles, parking operations, garage, and coordinating the provision of municipal transit services to campus. Maintains inventory of all available transportation (vehicles) and support (fuel, supplies, and drivers). Refer to Checklist 26 Emergency Food, Water and Sanitation (Residence Life & Dining Services) (Student Affairs) (Space Planning & Utilization) (Human Resources) See Table 1B Refer to Checklist 27 Medical (Student Health Services) (Lowenberg School of Nursing) (Athletic Trainers) Provides coordination with Hudson Health Center and assigned resources for the management of all field medical emergency response operations on the campus, including field emergency triage, medical transportation, first aid, deaths, and casualty counts. Coordinates the request for and allocation of medical resources at the campus. May coordinate the location of on - going triage and minor care with the outside medical resources. Monitors and documents injury and death reports, and coordinates with Police Services for reports to the County Medical Examiner. Refer to Checklist 12 Student Care and Response (Student Affairs) (Center for Counseling, Learning and Testing) Responsible for ensuring the needs and concerns of students are met including contact with family members. Will serve as the liaison with Student Affairs staff and with student leaders, and will arrange for deployment of the Student Affairs Critical Incident Team, if warranted. The purpose of this team is to provide counseling services to students in times of crisis or trauma. See Table 1B The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 162 Table 1 D continued University of Memphis EOC Logistics Functions Function or Group Purpose/Responsibilities Damage Assessment/Building Inspections (Physical Plant) Responsible for coordinating the assignment of building and facility inspections during earthquake events or other incidents, which may result in structural damage. May work directly with consulting engineers to augment University resources. Responsible for the analysis of status reports and inspection reports to identify damaged properties; track damage and evaluates for ballpark estimates of damage, loss and reconstruction/repair costs. Primary responsibility of UofM Police (windshield surveys) and ATC - 20 Teams (Physical Plant) See Table 1C Resource Inventory and Procurement (Accounting Office Property Section) Sets up all logistics for procurement and delivery of University resources in addition to outside goods and services. Arranges for field receipt and acknowledgement. May include contracted services, equipment purchase, supplies purchase or support (meals, etc.) for emergency operations. Responsible for tracking and distributing the equipment and supplies requested by the EOC required to support campus emergency response and recovery activities. Coordinates with Finance in the record keeping, planning and budgeting for funding authorization. Refer to Checklists 23 and 25 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 163 Table 1 - E University of Memphis EOC Finance/Administration Functions Function or Group Purpose/Responsibilities Finance/Administration Section Chief (Selected from HR or Finance) Provide overall management of financial accounting and analysis for the emergency response, including keeping the EOC Director and CMT - Policy Group advised of the total cost - to - date of the emergency response, estimated losses and financial impacts of the emergency to University businesses, programs and facilities. Also, begin the tracking and documentation process for FEMA application and insurance claims . Refer to Checklist 29 Insurance/Claims (HR Employee Benefits) Assist EOC staff (either on - site or via phone consultation) with insurance and liability claims information and information - sharing. Provide subject matter expertise on both issues as the event evolves toward the recovery stage. Refer to Checklist 31 Emergency Accounting (Finance) Establish an accounting process for tracking expenses for procurement of services, contracts and/or mutual aid from the EOC. Procure private and vended services and establish accounting numbers for tracking expenses. If resources are not actually purchased through the EOC, set up an allocation and tracking process to assure vendors know whom to invoice and how they will be paid . Refer to Checklist 30 Employee Compensation (Finance) Coordinates the payment of UofM employees and staff during and after an emergency or disaster and develops alternate payment methods if the primary payroll processes are impacted. Refer to Checklist 32 Coordination of Personnel Processes (Human Resources) Responsible for managing emergency human resource operations, including temporary or emergency hires, critical processes for benefits and employee services, and other HR related activities in support of the emergency response and recovery. Responsible for coordinating all UofM staff volunteer resources to support the University's needs. Set up a registration process for ensuring UofM staff volunteers are working under the management of an appropriate manager of the University. Registration includes obtaining emergency contact numbers, signed statement indicating complete and voluntary participation and willingness to work as assigned. May need to address work requirements, i.e. lifting, hazard exposure, etc. This does not need to be done for any volunteers who are coordinated by an official organization, such as the American Red Cross or United Way. Refer to Checklist 24 The 164 University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan University of Memphis Emergency Operations Center Structure UofM Crisis Management Team Policy Group Academic Programs Public Information Officer Safety Officer Legal Office UofM Crisis Management Team Operations Group Incident Commander EOC Administration & Support Staff Internal Liaison(s) to University Groups (including Millington, Collierville, Lambuth, Chucalissa, Law School and Park Ave Campus) External Liaison(s) to Outside Agencies (city, county, state and federal) Operations Section Chief Planning Section Chief Logistics Section Chief Finance & Administration Section Chief ESF 1 Transportation ESF 3 Campus Infrastructure ESF 6 Human Services ESF 8 Health & Medical Services ESF 11 Emergency Food Assistance ESF 7 Resource Support ESF 14 Donations /Volunteers ESF 2 Communications ESF 4 Firefighting ESF 9 Campus Search & Rescue ESF 10 Hazardous Materials Response ESF 13 Campus Safety & Security 165 The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan University of Memphis Emergency Operations Center Layout FRONT NOAA Weather Radio FAX 678 - 6118 ESF 15 Recovery 678 - 6085 ESF 11 Emergency Food 678 - 6074 ESF 14 Donations/Volunteers 678 - 5917 ESF 6 Human Services 678 - 5954 PIO 678 - 6060 Liaison TBD ESF 10 HazMat Response 678 - 5950 ESF 8 Health & Medical 678 - 5938 ESF 9 Search & Rescue 678 - 6101 ESF 4 Firefighting TBD ESF 2 Communications 678 - 5909 ESF 5 Information & Planning 678 - 5225 ESF 13 Safety & Security 678 - 6073 EOC Director TBD Computer and Control Module Console The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 166 9 Checklists The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 167 0 Checklist 1 UofM Crisis Management Team Policy Group Declare University emergencies and authorize the activation and coordination of operations of the UofM Campus Emergency Operations Center (EOC) Notify and inform key University constituents and stakeholders, including the Board of Regents, the Office, and elected officials Issue directives regarding the overall status of the University Campus, programs and operations Provide direction for the resumption of research and educational programs Coordinate policy matters with University centers, schools and departments 1. When notified of an emergency that threatens the University or interrupts University operations and/or programs, convene to address the situation status, collect information and issue emergency communications. 2. If the event is severe, authorize activation of the University EOC and Crisis Management plan, issue a Disaster Declaration. Communicate this officially to the Office and other key constituents. 3. Notify and communicate with the Academic and Research Departments (via Deans), Administrators and Student Affairs regardi ng the status. 4. Issue official emergency policy statements, orders and notices to support and manage the Emergency Response and Recovery Operations. 5. Establish emergency task forces and committees to address special contingencies for urgent program support or critical decisions pertaining to key University programs and processes. 6. Provide direction and vision to the University and EOC for recovery of programs and post - event plans of restoration. 7. If the emergency is contained or as it lessens, the CMT Policy Group may wish to appoint one representative to be the 24 - hour contact to the EOC. The full group can be convened again if needed for emergency business, or for regular status reports. 8. Issue executive policies to direct and support the recovery of services and programs. 9. Provide official contact to the Office and elected officials to petition state and federal disaster assistance programs for the University. Officially assign a t applicant to apply for federal funds. 10. Conduct post - disaster briefings to identify key lessons learned for the improvement of the disaster preparedness program. Primary Responsibilities Actions Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 168 Checklist 2 EOC Director Activates the UofM Emergency Operations Center upon authorization of the Policy Group Authority to direct and control all university resources during the emergency response phase Coordinates overall EOC management with the University Colleges, Schools, Departments, and Centers Represents the UofM EOC and emergency response operations to the City of Memphis, Shelby County, State of Tennessee EOC and other outside agencies Establishes overall objectives and strategies for the UofM Campus emergency response and recovery Handles EOC staff issues and policy regarding EOC operations Obtains authorization for large expenditures and/or emergency programs from the UofM CMT - Policy Group Deactivates the EOC Manages the transition to recovery 1. When aware of and informed of any emergency or pending emergency, which may affect or impact UofM Campus properties, staff and/or operations, report to the UofM Emergency Operations Center. 2. Assign a staff assistant to keep log of your activities and keep it current throughout the emergency response. The assistant also serves as a runner for the EOC Management Team during the activation. 3. Obtain as much information as possible about the emergency. Meet with the Operations Section Chief and the Planning Section Chief to identify the following: Primary event or cause of the emergency Status of operations Current overall situation at the UofM Campus, including: Power/Utilities Communications Major Damage to Buildings and Facilities Status of research programs and lab animals Status of UofM staff and research departments, academic programs and students Major events and activities on Campus Other critical programs or activities at UofM Primary Responsibilities Actions The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 169 Checklist 2 EOC Director - continued 4. Based on the above information, determine the following: Level of emergency activation for recommendation to the Policy Group Primary activity of the EOC (i.e., coordination of information to key constituents, public information, readiness in the event of escalating needs, full scale emergency coordination, etc.) 5. Call to duty, those positions and functions needed for the emergency response. If the potential for emergency response is great, it is better to overstaff initially than to try to later to the needs of the situation. Contact Police Services Dispatch Center to begin the process of activating the EOC. 6. Select alternate EOC Director(s) from available staff and other EOC team members. 7. The EOC Director manages all other Section Chiefs/teams and operations during prolonged emergency activations. The EOC Director meets with and confers with the EOC Management Team (Section Chiefs) to determine the overall University response and strategy, approve and authorize emergency expenditures for response operations, and coordinate operations with the other University departments. There is always an EOC Director during an activation of the UofM EOC. 8. As the EOC Section Chiefs arrive, meet with them to establish an initial EOC Action Plan. Follow the template provided with this checklist. Establish the immediate actions, next hour actions and short - term actions. Work with each of the EOC Section Chiefs to establish a joint process for sharing information and coordinating emergency operations. Establish a process and schedule for conducting EOC briefings and announcing major decisions and information. The EOC Director may meet with the EOC Section Chiefs more frequently to effectively manage ope rations. 9. Identify and activate the EOC Administrative (Support) Staff to set up the EOC facility and support the EOC staff with supplies and services. 10. Notify the UofM CMT - Policy Group of the activation and provide status reports and updates. Request the activation of the group, if needed, to address policy issues and executive decision - making. If the UofM Policy Group will be needed for extended hours, obtain contact information and/or arrange for one or two members to serve as primary contacts during non - business hours. If the emergency is severe, request the continual activation of one or two members of the UofM Policy Group. 11. Activate the External Liaison positions to support the contact and notification to the City of Memphis and other jurisdictions. 12. Activate the Internal Liaison to contact and notify UofM departments, schools and the other Campus Centers (not represented in the EOC). 13. Address staff issues and policies regarding EOC operations. Keep in mind that people from multiple departments, who may have differing policies and operational priorities, staff the EOC. It is essential that the EOC staff support the Actions - continued The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 170 EOC management decisions, and is able to communicate the priorities of the EOC to their respective departments. 14. Review and update the EOC Action Plan as presented by the Operations Group, with a focus on the transition to recovery as the emergency subsides. Work with the Planning Section Leader to continually reassess the situation and update damage and emergency response costs. 15. Continue to update the EOC Action Plan every hour or as needed. Number and post EOC Action Plans in sequence. Bring together the EOC Section Chiefs to review and implement the Action Plan. Lead periodic briefings with the entire EOC to communicate status and the EOC Action Plan. Update the UofM Policy Group and recommend policy decisions, as needed. 16. Contact the City of Memphis, Shelby County and State EMA EOCs with UofM EOC activation information. 17. If this is an earthquake emergency, plan for the eventuality of aftershocks. Buildings and facilities will need to be reassessed after significant shaking. 18. With the Operations Section Chief, evaluate the Operations Action Plan to ensure the overall plan is consistent with the response priori ties. Pre - identified priorities are (these may not be in prioritized order, and are dependent upon the situation and conditions of the emergency): Life safety - protection of lives and care of the injured Restoration of critical utilities Containment of hazards - protection of University staff and the public Student care Animal care Protection of critical research project operations (power dependent) Protection of the environment Protection of property from further damage Support to staff and people on - site Communication to all University staff and students Protection of research and academic work - in - progress documentation and on - site files Restoration of networks and information systems Prevention of loss and damage to high value assets Clean - up and occupancy of buildings Restoration and resumption of University business and programs 19. Ensure the Action Plan is understood by each Section Chief in the EOC. Evaluate the action plan for the following: Staffing requirements (exempt/non - exempt, commute problems) Labor agreements and types of work Weather conditions Personnel support Equipment and supplies The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 171 Checklist 2 EOC Director - continued Work with all EOC Section Chiefs and associated departments to ensure adequate staffing and support. 21. Work closely with the Public Information Officer (PIO) to provide emergency information to the Campus and public. 22. Based on the information and advice from the Operations Section Chief and the Planning Section Chief, determine the capability of UofM resources to address the overall response. If UofM is about to exhaust all resources, determine the best sources for additional resources: mutual assistance, temporary hires, or contracted services. Each alternative has benefits and disadvantages. Also, each alternative, if used within the federal program guidelines, is eligible for cost reimbursement under the federal FEMA disaster assistance programs. If mutual aid is requested, determine the following: Type of assistan ce needed Location Tasks and duties to be performed UofM person who will coordinate Food, water, sanitation and lodging resources available for support 24. If requests for UofM services and resources are received from the City of Memphis, Shelby County or other organizations; determine the availability of UofM resources and assess whether these resources will be needed at the UofM. The most likely request will be for UofM to provide a public shelter site for the American Red Cross to support the local neighborhoods, if there is extensive damage or a large evacuation. Determine if the UofM can provide the service and resources required to support the public needs. 25. Provide staff for 24 - hour EOC operations, if needed. 26. Begin the development of a transition plan to support recovery and resumption of normal operations and the re - opening of the Campus (if closed or suspended operations). 28. Plan for the transfer of response operations to normal procedures. With the UofM Policy Group, assign staff to the UofM Recovery Team. Develop a transition and recovery plan, which allows for the resumption of normal operations and business support in UofM facilities. If these services are not available, plan for resuming critical programs at altern ative locations. Include a communications plan for full implementation of the UofM recovery plan. 29. Provide all documentation to the FEMA/Recovery Team Leader position for Disaster Public Assistance Program applications. 30. Provide necessary documentation to Risk Management for claims on insured properties. 31. Lead the EOC Management Team in post - incident debriefing meetings to identify areas of improvement for EOC Operations. Actions continued Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 172 Checklist 3 EOC Administration and Support Staff Assist in the Set - up and provide ongoing support staff to the EOC facility (primarily EOC security and sign - in/out table) Support the EOC Management Team and all staff in the operation of the EOC. a. When notified of the activation of the UofM EOC, refer to Appendix and set up the facility for operation. b. Assist staff with setting up their positions. Keep track of EOC activities and facilitate the exchange of information between Sections and staff. c. Provide ongoing support to the EOC Management Team and EOC Director to facilitate EOC briefings and operations. d. Shut down the EOC and forward all logs and reports to the Situation Status position for documentation. Primary Responsibilities Actions Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 173 Checklist 4 Internal Liaison(s) Initiate and maintain contact with UofM Campus centers, departments and key staff as requested by the EOC Director and EOC Management Team Assist with relaying essential information and/or to receive status reports, as requested by the EOC Director and the EOC Management Team 1. Report to the EOC. 2. As directed by the EOC Management Team and the EOC Director, contact UofM Departments and Centers in Millington, Collierville, Park Ave. Campus, Jackson, Dyersburg and Chucalissa to receive reports and exchange information. 3. Relay reports of buildings and systems status to the Operations Section Chief and other appropriate section chiefs in the EOC. 4. Support the recruitment of volunteer staff from UofM depart ments. 5. Support the Public Information dissemination of information. 6. Support the transition to recovery by communicating and coordinating with Campus departments. Primary Responsibilities Actions Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 174 Checklist 5 External Liaison(s) Initiate and maintain contact with the City of Memphis, Shelby County, State of Tennessee and other external organizations and EOCs Assist with relaying essential information and/or to receive status reports, as requested by the EOC Director and the EOC Management Team 1. Report to the EOC. 2. As directed by the EOC Management Team and the EOC Director, contact: The City of Memphis EOC Shelby County ECC State of Tennessee EOC Other organizations and agencies 3. Relay reports of buildings and systems status to the Operations Section Chief and other appropriate section chiefs. 4. Support the Public Information dissemination of information. 5. Support the transition to recovery as needed by communicating with the external agencies. Primary Responsibilities Actions Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 175 Checklist 6 Public Information Officer Develop official messages for all groups of the University Emergency Response, UofM CMT - Policy Group, EOC Management Team and the EOC staff Serve as the point of contact for the EOC for media purposes Serve as the primary conduit of critical EOC/event/incident information to the off - site Crisis Communications Team (coordinated via the Communications, Public Relations and Marketing Office) see Crisis Communications Plan in Annex 1 Assist in the collection, preparation and dissemination of information to: University faculty and staff Students News media The public Coordinate all news media contacts Prepare news releases, employee bulletins, and the basic message for recorded messages Hold news conferences and arrange for interviews Implement rumor control procedures Assist in the participation of joint press releases and broadcasts with other agencies, as appropriate Suppo rt the Academic and Administration Departments with disseminating information regarding the resumption of programs and processes for alternative classes, etc. 1. Report to the University Main Campus and set up a Joint Information Center (JIC), if needed. Establish communication and coordination between the University EOC, JIC and the Crisis Communications Team 2. Serve as the official University spokesperson to the news media and for all public information purposes, or select appropriate staff, as needed to respond to specific inquiries. Coordinate such selections with the Policy Group. If the crisis is severe, consider requesting the President to be the official spokesperson to national media and federal agencies. 3. Work with the UofM Information Technology Services as soon as possible and if the telephone service is operational, have a recorded message on the Special Information Hot Line. Work with the Internal Liaisons to augment outgoing notifications and calls, as needed. 4. Establish contact and coordinate with local Public Information Officers (PIO's), the State of Tennessee EOC, and any other agency involved in the response and dissemination of emergency information. Coordinate information so that a consistent message is sent out with respect to the University. Seek to get University information included in the City and County updates and media releases. This strategy will assist the University in getting key information to staff, employees, students, family members and other concerned parties in the area, as part of the state Emergency Alert System (EAS) messages. Include information such as: Primary Responsibilities Actions The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 176 Checklist 6 Public Information Officer continued The University is (open/closed/suspended operations) for normal (work/business) until (day/time) Staff are requested to (come to work/stay home/call this number Anyone needing information regarding the University should call 1 - 800 - , if normal telephones are down 5. Ensure that news media representatives are not allowed into the University EOC or any other restricted area of the University . Redirect media representatives to the Joint Information Center (JIC). Coordinate with the Operations Section Chief regarding news media access to field incident areas. If possible, provide Public Information staff to escort news media representatives who wish to inspect the campus. 6. Gather information from Situation Status, Damage Assessment, and others in the University EOC. Verify all information and obtain agreement from the EOC Director before releasing. Provide information to the Crisis Communications Team, attend all EOC Section Chief briefings and provide updated information to the UofM Policy Group. Be prepared with information about the incident size, cause, ongoing situation, resources, and other information such as background on the University. 7. Prepare news releases and have them approved by the EOC Management Team. 8. Issue messages on staff information bulletins, student information bulletins, and the Special Inform ation Hot Line number to keep all constituents informed. 9. Forward news releases and other prepared statements to the Internal/External Liaison positions for distribution. 10. Implement rumor control procedures, coordinating closely with all University EOC Staff to verify and correct all errors and misstatements; ensure all audiences are notified of the corrections. 11. Support the Recovery Team with a communications plan to disseminate information regarding: The resumption of research programs The resumption of academic programs and classes Work locations (if changed) Status of University business departments Letters and communications to key constituents and Stakeholders in University programs Actions - continued Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 177 Checklist 7 Operations Section Chief Provides the overall coordination and leadership to the emergency response operations Leads the Operations Section in the development and implementation of the EOC Emergency Action Plan, establishing response priorities and strategies Relays the information to other Section Chiefs in the EOC and participates in the EOC Management Team regular update sessions Serves as a backup to the EOC Director when the EOC Director and/or Management Team has not yet activated Ensures the EOC Planning and Logistics functions and services are in support of emergency operations Supports mutual aid and resource allocation requests, as needed (i.e. not handled by standard mutual aid channels) Supports the Joint Information Center and the EOC Management Team with operational information and coordination 1. When aware of or notified that the University is responding to a large emergency or crisis, report to the EOC. If the incident or event is a police, security, fire or civil disturbance or extremely large - scale incident, the Director of Public Safety or his/her designee is the Operations Section Chief. If the incident is primarily hazardous materials, sanitation, biological, or public health em ergency, the Director of EH&S is the Operations Section Chief. If the Incident is primarily a utility, roads, or building services, the Assistant Vice President of Physical Plant or designee is the Operations Section Chief. If the incident is unclear or there is a full activation of the EOC, the Director of Public Safety or his/her designee is the Operations Section Chief. 2. Assign a staff assistant to keep log of your activities and keep it current throughout the emergency response. The assistant also serves as a runner for the Operations Section during the activation. 3. Activate all necessary functions for the Section. Check all communications with the Section to ensure immediate communication and coordination capabilities. 4. Evaluate the overall emergency response operations and determine the first plan of action for the University emergency response. Establish field Incident Command Posts, as needed, to provide on - scene incident command on Campus. Incident Commanders may communicate directly with the EOC as the situation requires. If further communications between the EOC and the Command Post are necessary, assign staff with a radio to the Command Post to assist with communications. It is essential that communications between the EOC and the Command Post are open if required. Primary Responsibilities Actions The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 178 Checklist 7 Operations Sections Chief continued 5. Lead the Operations Section in establishing emergency response priorities, current actions and next steps. Identify the deployment and actions of each response department. Identify and report resources needed, to the EOC Management Team. As the action plan is authorized, forward requests for resources to the Logistics Section. 6. With the EOC Management Team, evaluate the Operations Action Plan to ensure the overall plan is consistent with the response priorities. Pre - identified priorities are (these may not be in prioritized order, and are dependent on the situation and conditions of the emergency): Life safety - protection of lives and care of the injured Restoration of critical utilities Containment of hazards - protection of University Staff and the public Student care Animal care Protection of critical research project operations (power dependent) Protection of the environment Protection of property from further damage Support to staff and people on - site Communication to all University staff and students Protection of research and academic work - in - progress documentation and on - site files Restoration of networks and information systems Prevention of loss and damage to high value assets Clean - up and occupancy of buildings Restoration and resumption of University business and programs 7. Ensure the Action Plan is understood by each Operations Section member in the EOC and communicated to the Unit Response Centers (URC). Include warnings, information on critical safety issues and information on support services, including food, water and sanitation. Each URC will need to report back to the Operations Section with their implementation plan and needs and keep the EOC updated on operations. 8. Coordinate and communicate the Action Plan to the EOC Management Team. 9. Continually update Situation Status. 10. Request support from the Planning Section for re scue operations and any condition in which building safety or structural safety is in question. 11. Lead the Operations Section to efficiently utilize University resources in order to control the emergency and restore essential services. 12. If existing University public safety resources are not sufficient, determine the need for mutual aid requests. Forward all mutual aid requests to the EOC Management Team for authorization and follow through by the Logistics Section. Actions - continued The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 179 Checklist 7 Operations Section Chief continued 13. Operations with other agencies may be coordinated: Directly with the URCs From the UofM Campus EOC to the other agencies Via the External Liaison(s) 14. Continually update the Action Plan and collate the overall emergency response information to keep track of the Campus response. Major operations should be posted in Situation Status. 15. Utilize resources directly from and with the URCs. As additional resources and support is needed, advise the EOC Management Team and Logistics Section Chief to procure resources. 16. If the Campus will be closed, work with Police Services to prepare a plan for a large - scale egress from the University and for securing the University facilities during and immediately following, emergency operations. 17. Continue to lead the Operations Section to analyze the overall situation and identify anticipated needs, anticipated recovery operations, areas of support, and other contingencies to control and contain the emergency. 18. As the emergency subsides, transition to normal operations. Continue to staff the Operations Section Chief until the Operations Section is deactivated. 18. Plan for the transition of operations to University department management. 19. Provide all documentation to the FEMA/Recovery Team position for FEMA Disaster Assistance Program applications. 20. Provide necessary documentation to Risk Management for claims on insured properties. 21. Lead the Operations Section in post - incident debriefing mee tings to identify areas of improvement for EOC Operations and coordination of field emergency operations Actions continued Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 180 Checklist 8 UofM Police Services Coordinate between the Police Services Command Center and the EOC Operations Center Communicate with Police Incident Commanders, as needed Provide police and law enforcement analysis and intelligence to the Operations Section Action Plan Communicate EOC priorities and operational information to the Police Services Comman d Center Provide back - up to the Operations Section Chief 1. Report to the EOC. Establish communication with the Police Services Command Center. Provide a report on Police Services operations, indicating where police resources are deployed and how many units are available. 2. Based on the Operations Section Action Plan, coordinate with the Police Services Command Center how the police resources will be assigned and who will be in charge of incidents on Campus. Determine if the EOC Operations Section should be in direct communication with the Incident Commander, if so, establish radio contact. 3. As the police representative within the Operations Section, provide action plans for police operations as part of the plan, including: Search and rescue of trap ped victims Large structural fires (it may be necessary to request a Fire Department Liaison in the EOC) Law enforcement and crime investigation Security and individual protection Evacuation or relocation Traffic control, access and egress Police support to other operations Coordinate the details of these plans and tasks with the Police Services Command Center and incorporate into the Operations Section Action Plan. Provide ongoing communication and coordination between the Police Services Command Center and the EOC. 4. Anticipate the need for an overall traffic control plan. Work with the Police Services Command Center to develop an overall traffic flow pattern, routing exiting traffic to clear access for emergency vehicles, or to remove the public from unsa fe areas. It may be necessary to work with the Physical Plant URC regarding transportation services and major transportation routes to and from the Campus. 5. If the emergency involves fatalities, ensure that Police Services is handling all arrangements on - site and with the Local Medical office. If there are mass fatalities beyond the capability of the Local Medical office, coordinate with the Student Health Services representatives to set - up a temporary morgue capacity on the UofM Campus (locations: TBD). Primary Responsibilities Actions The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 181 Checklist 8 UofM Police Services continued 6. Staff the EOC Operations Section as long as police resources are involved in the emergency response. Provide back - up to the Operations Section Chief, as requested. 7. Participate in the Operations Section in post - incident debriefing meetings to identify areas of improvement for EOC Operations and coordination of field emergency operations. Actions - continued Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 182 Checklist 9 Physical Plant Coordinate between the Physical Plant Unit Response Center and the EOC Operations Center Provide facility services analysis and intelligence to the Operations Section Action Plan for buildings, power and water, roadways and grounds Communicate EOC priorities and operational information to the Physical Plant Unit Response Center Communicate messages from the Building Coordinators 1. Report to the EOC. Establish communication with the Physical Plant Unit Response Center. Provide a report on Physical Plant operations, the known status of building services and utilities, the condition of roadways and grounds and other damage and operational information. If the incident or damage is limited to only one building or involves utilities (i.e. power outage), Physical Plant will lead the Operations Section. 2. As the Physical Plant representative in the Operations Section, provide action plans for Physical Plant operations as part of the plan, including: Status a nd restoration of utilities on Campus Status and response of water and waste water systems and services General status of buildings and building control systems, including HVAC Note: if this is an earthquake, the Planning Section will manage the overall safety inspection and posting process General status of roadways and access Plan for restoring utilities and services 3. Work with the EH&S representative in the EOC to analyze and determine the overall hazards and priorities in the buildings. Support the development of the Operations Section Action Plan with coordinated strategies to contain hazards and restore services. 4. If the primary area of damage and response is the Animal Care Facilities (ACF), work closely with the ACF representative to prioritize response operations and contain hazardous conditions. Coordinate and communicate with the Physical Plant Facilities Operations to ensure the field teams are working together on responding to the building. 5. In support of EOC actions and communications, prov ide messages and information to the Physical Plant Facilities Operations to be disseminated to Building Coordinators. Building Coordinators may also provide status reports and additional information to the Physical Plant Facilities Operations that is needed in the EOC. 6. Coordinate the details of these plans and tasks with the Physical Plant Facilities Operations and incorporate into the Operations Section Action Plan. Provide ongoing communication and coordination between the Physical Plant Work Control Center and the EOC. 7. Staff the EOC Operations Section as long as Physical Plant is involved in the emergency response. Primary Responsibilities Actions The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 183 8. Participate in the Operations Section post - incident debriefing meetings to identify areas of improvement for EOC Operations and coordination of field emergency operations. Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 184 Checklist 10 Environmental Health and Safety Coordinate between EH&S responders and the EOC Operations Center Provide Environmental Health and Safety analysis and intelligence to the Operations Section Action Plan for hazards, safety concerns, public health concerns, and chemical, biological and radiological issues, including public warning and safety information Communicate EOC priorities and operational information to EH&S responders Coordinate with Student Health Services for response operations in health services Coordinate contracted services for emergency response and clean - up of spills and contamination 1. Report to the EOC. Establish communication with the EH&S responders. Provide a report of EH&S operations, including safety issues, spills, contamination, public health risks, toxic environments, and hazardous materials releases. If the incident is primarily an environmental health or safety incident, the Director of EH&S will lead the Operations Section. 2. If the event is primarily an environmental/hazardous material emergency, an EH&S representative will assume the role of Operations Section Chief. 3. As the EH&S representative in the Operations Section, provide action plans for EH&S operations as part of the plan, including: Status and assessment of hazards and unsafe conditions on Campus Status and assessment of public health risk Response, containment and clean - up plans for spills, releases and toxic environments Development of associated safety and warning and advisement messages Coordination with contract services, as needed 4. If the primary area of damage and response is the JM Smith Chemis try Hall, work closely with the Chemistry Department representative to prioritize response operations and contain hazardous conditions. Coordinate and communicate with all Operations Section members to ensure the field teams are working together on responding to the building. 5. In support of EOC actions and communications, provide messages and information on all departments regarding safety conditions and requirements to protect personal safety, health and minimize exposure. 6. Coordinate the details of these plans and tasks with the EH&S responders and incorporate into the Operations Section Action Plan. Provide ongoing communication and coordination between the EH&S responders and the EOC. 7. Staff the EOC Operations Section as long as EH&S is involved in the emergency response. Primary Responsibilities A ctions The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 185 Checklist 10 Environmental Health and Safety - continued 8. Participate in the Operations Section post - incident debriefing meetings to identify areas of improvement for EOC Operations and coordination of field emergency operations. 9. Participate in recovery planning and implementati on. Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 186 Checklist 11 Animal Care Facilities Represent and coordinate Animal Care Facilities operations with the EOC if required Manage the care, safety and security of University animals Ensure protection and security of research material 1. If required, report to the EOC. Provide a report on the status of Animal Care Facilities (ACF). 2. As the ACF representative in the Operations Section, provide action plans for ACF operations as part of the plan, including: Status of ACF utilities, departments and operations ACF priorities for response Status of all animals on the Campus 3. If the primary area of damage and response is the Animal Care Facilities Building(s), work closely with all departments of the Operations Section to prioritize response operations and contain potential hazardous conditions. 4. Provide status reports and requests for animal care. 5. Staff the EOC Operations Section as long as ACF personnel are involved in the emergency response. 6. Participate in the Operations Section post - incident debriefing meetings to identify areas of improvement for EOC Operations and coordination of field emergency operations. Primary Responsibilities Actions Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 187 Checklist 12 Student Health Services Coordinate with the EOC for medical emergency first aid services on campus. If directed by the Incident Commander, send a Health Center medical responder to assist with triage and disposition of victims. Coordinate with Psychological Counseling Services for care of distraught or grieving individuals. Request transportation resources for immediate emergency medical transportation (if paramedics are delayed) Plans for the deployment of medical first responders to emergency rescue and other injury incidents, as needed Track reports of injuries and fatalities and coordinate with Human Resources Manage the temporary morgue if required 1. Establish communication with the EOC. 2. Evaluate the overall emergency response operations for reports of injuries, fatalities or trapped persons (who may be injured). Working with Police Services and other Operations Section members, plan for emergency first aid and medical triage either on - scene at incidents, or at the Health Center. Medical services on Campus will need to be provided by the Health Center staff, staff and students from the Loewenberg School of Nursing, trained police and fire personnel or responding paramedics. 3. The Health Center will suspend regular non - emergent patient care in the event sufficient numbers of victims are expected from an incident. 4. If the Incident Commander is requesting emergency first aid at a rescue site or incident, work with the Health Center to deploy a team to the location. If there are no teams available, have the Police Services dispatch contact the City of Memphis Fire Department for priority response (if the Fire Department is not already on the scene). 5. Track the numbers and disposition of injured persons and fatalities on Campus and provide this information to Human Resources. 6. If there are mass fatalities on Campus and at the request of Police Services and/or Local Medical Office, work with technical experts to identify and establish temporary morgue capacity on Campus (either in current UofM facilities capable of meeting the minimum needs and/or procure temporary mobile refrigeration units for this purpose) Notify the EOC Operations Se ction Chief of any activities in this area. 7. Support requests from Residence Life and Student Affairs to provide first aid support at care and shelter locations (University only sites public shelters on Campus will be managed by the American Red Cross). Primary Responsibilities Actions The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 188 Checklist 12 Student Health Services continued 8. Request volunteers to assist with first aid from the Human Resources function. They will coordinate with Schools and other departments to recruit volunteers. Coordinate with the Health Center to receive and deploy volunteer staff. 9. Coordinate the details of these plans and tasks with the Health Center and incorporate into the Operations Section Action Plan. Provide ongoing communication and coordination between the Health Center and the EOC. 10. Staff the EOC Operations Section as long as emergency medical operations are needed in the emergency response. 11. Participate in the Operations Section post - incident debriefing meetings to identify areas of improvement for EOC Operations and coordination of field emergency operations. Actions - continued Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 189 Checklist 13 Information Technology Services Coordinates between UofM Technology Unit Response Center (URC), UofM EOC Logistics position, and other EOC positions. Provides status for campus communications/computing services. Provides support for EOC Logistics position. Plans for and implements the repair/restoration of campus communications/computing services. Plans for and implements new and/or alternate campus communications/computing services. 1. Report to the EOC. Establish communication with the UofM Technology URC. 2. Provide a status report of campus communications/computing services. This includes: Facilities (buildings, data centers, router centers, fiber, copper) Networks (medical centers, voice/data, K - 20, PN Gigapop, and wireless) Systems (security, communications, mainframe/storage, email, web, TV/digital) Applications (facilities/safety, HR/payroll, academic/student, alumni/donor, financial). 3. Provide operational and technical support for the UofM EOC Logistics position to implement emergency communications/computing services in support of the emergency response operations. 4. Working with the members of the EOC Operations Section, plan for communications support to all operations at the Campus. The Operations Action Plan and Operations Section Chief will determine priority for service. 5. If the communications/computi ng services are not operational, plan for repair and restoration of services with the UofM Technology URC and the EOC Operations Section members in the Operational Action Plan. If alternate site services will be used, notify the EOC Management Team and provide information on how and when the computing operations will be restored. If services will not be available for an extended time, work with Joint Information Center to inform the campus community and implement the ITS Disaster Recovery Plan. 6. Coordinate installation of new and alternate communications/computing services to support as planned by the EOC Operations Section and the EOC Management Team. If needed, coordinate with the UofM Technology URC and the EOC Finance/Admin Procurement Service s position to arrange emergency contracts, agreements for service, and procurement. 7. Coordinate the details of these plans, tasks, and priorities with the UofM Technology URC and incorporate into the Operations Section Action Plan. Provide ongoing communication and coordination between UofM Technology URC and the EOC. 8. Staff the EOC Operations Section as long as needed or until relieved. Primary Responsibilities Actions The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 190 Checklist 13 Information Technology continued 10. Participate in the Operations Section post - incident debriefing meetings to identify areas of improvement for EOC Operations and coordination of field emergency operations. 11. If the EOC is deactivated by the EOC Director: Clean your work area and complete all required document ation Assist with the breakdown/deactivation of EOC communications Sign out of the EOC Participate in after action review meetings to identify areas of improvement for the EOC and coordination of field emergency operations. Participate in all appropriate post - incident recovery and reimbursement activities. Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 191 Checklist 14 Care and Shelter Manage University large group care operations Provide temporary shelter (overnight or for several days) Provide support for large group off - Campus evacuation Provide immediate crisis counseling Set up a message center for those in the shelter 1. Report to the EOC. Check with the Operations Section Chief to determine if care and shelter area(s) need to be established for: Building evacuees Stranded employees and staff Field response personnel Evacuees from the community (mutual assistance) 2. Determine immediate needs for the groups of people on site. Coordinate with Student Health Services for immediate medical and other urgent care for evacuees. 3. Identify potential sites to set up shelter areas. Ensure that buildings have been inspected and are safe for occupancy. 4. If directed by the Operations Section Chief, set up one or more Care and Shelter centers on Campus. Initial shelters may be for students and employees who are evacuated from buildings, children from schools and day care centers who have been evacuated, and others who may have become separated from their companions. Note: These shelters may be temporary and include: First Aid and Triage Screening Area, Medical Transportation Staging Area, Message Center. 5. Determine the number of staff that will be needed to manage each shelter site. Request volunteers through the Logistics Section. 6. Make a list of all items that will be needed for each shelter to become fully operational. Forward the list to the Operations Section Chief and coordinate with Logistics to provide estimates of supplies currently available on Campus and supplies that will need to be purchased. Provide the estimates, including costs, to the Operations Section Chief for final approval before establishing longer - term shelters. 7. If the University has been asked to provide a public shelter under the management of the American Red Cross, the University will need to provide a facility with support services of power and water utilities and sanitation. The public shelter may request extra patrol and security from the University, as well. Coordinate the set up of the Red Cross shelter with the Operations Section. Determine if there are additional needs to provide support. Determine a shut down time for the public shelter, which may be based on the resumption of University operations. Coordinate the shut - down of the public shelter with the Operations Section Chief and the EOC Director who may need to coordinate with the City of Memphis and Shelby County. Primary Responsibilities Actions The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 192 Checklist 14 Care and Shelter continued 8. Coordinate with the Operations Section Chief to define a policy for shelter operations, based on the nature of the situation and with the concurrence of the EOC Management Team, establish the following: Sign - in log for all persons at the shelter; including date and time Length of time people will be sheltered Shelter mana gement UofM or the Red Cross Services to be provided are food, counseling, transportation, etc. Release policy (i.e., individual initiative - no controls, release sign - out Log, etc.) Policy regarding non - Campus persons in shelters Policy regarding mutual assistance (whether it will be provided) Information to be released to the news media Maximum budget Based on the information acquired above, obtain final approval for a shelter to be opened. REMEMBER THAT UofM MUST PAY FOR SHELTERS THAT ARE MANAGED BY UofM. IF A RED CROSS SHELTER IS OPENED ON CAMPUS, AND MANAGED BY THE RED CROSS, UofM ONLY PROVIDES FACILITIES. BE AWARE THAT IF THE RED CROSS MANAGES THE SHELTER, IT IS OPENED UP TO THE COMMUNITY AS A COMMUNITY - WIDE SHELTER AND IS NOT EXCLUSIVELY FOR THE UofM COMMUNITY (FACULTY/STAFF/STUDENTS, 9. Participate in the Operations Section post - incident debriefing meetings to identify areas of improvement for EOC Operations and coordination of field emergency operations. Actions continued Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 193 Checklist 15 Residence Life and Dining Services Coordinates between the Residence Life staff and the EOC Plans for emergency housing and food services for students Plans for the messages and information to families of students 1. Report to the EOC. Establish communication with the Residence Life staff. 2. Determine immediate needs for students based on the nature and duration of the emergency. 3. Coordinate with the Operations Section members a plan for providing emergency housing services to students. All needs or services that are not available from the Residence Life Staff that may require emergency procurement will be coordinated with the Logistics Section. 4. Provide information to the Joint Public Information Center regarding how families can find out the status of their students. 5. If additional counseling services are needed, coordinate requests with the Logistics Section. Services may be co - located with Care & Shelter operations, as available. 6. Continue to represent Residence Life in the EOC as long as coordination is needed during the emergency response. 7. Participate in the Operations Section post - incident debriefing meetings to identify areas of improvement for EOC Operations and coordination of field emergency operations. Primary Responsibilities Actions Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 194 Checklist 16 Emergency Staff Services Coordinates with EOC teams to provide emergency services for staff who may be stranded Plans for emergency transportation, housing or care and shelter of staff Plans for emergency crisis counseling services to staff 1. Report to the EOC. Receive reports regarding the status of University staff on campus. If there are reports of staff stranded on - site or needing specialized emergency care, plan for support to staff in the Operations Section Action Plan. 2. Coordinate the plan for providing emergency housing services to staff with the Logistics Section members and others in the EOC. Staff may need emergency transportation via public transportation, meals, minor medical care, crisis counseling if they have witnessed extreme emergency situations, or communication services for contacting family members. Coordinate these services as a separate service with Human Resources or in conjunction with Care & Shelter Operations. Additionally, stranded staff may be available as volunteer staff in emergency operations. 3. If other staff support services are needed, continue to coordinate requests with the Logistics Section. 4. Continue to represent Emergency Staff Services in the EOC as long as coordination is needed during the emergency response. 5. Participate in the Operations Section post - incident debriefing meetings to identify areas of improvement for EOC Operations and coordination of field emergency operations. Primary Responsibilities Actions Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 195 Checklist 17 CERT Team Liaison Reports to the Operations Section Chief Acts as a single point of contact for information passed to and received from the UofM CERT teams. Coordinates CERT field response in conjunction with the Incident Commander and CERT Section Chief on scene. Advises the Operations Section Chief on CERT team status, capabilities, staffing and available CERT disaster supply pods. Tracks all CERT team deployment and initializes additional CERT team call - out when needed. Prepares and secures all CERT - related incident paperwork. Oversees CERT team needs, including food, water, medical care and down - time. 1. Report to the EOC when activated. Confirm that all necessary supplies are present to perform the task of the position. Turn the appropriate VHF radio on. Call sign for the CERT Coordinator/Liaison to be determined. Broadcast that you are activated. 2. Coordinate with Operations Section Chief to see if there is a need to staff assembly points. This may need to occur if one or have lost primary communication ability (phones are out and cell networks are jammed). 3. If necessary to staff assembly points, use CERT teams nearest to those assembly points. All radio traffic from the assembly points will come through the CERT liaison. 4. Record CERT team members active on the UofM CERT form Record incoming information on appropriate CERT forms 5. Begin making CERT team assignments to command posts or emergency scenes as necessary. Track CERT activities. 6. Mission - specific CERT actions will be determined by the on - scene Incident Commander and the Operations Section Chief, with the CERT Coordinator/liaison providing counsel. If there is not a specific Incident Commander, the Operations Section Chief and the CERT Coordinator/liaison will collaboratively determine the mission and action plans for the CERT teams. 7. Coordinate wit h the Operations Section Chief for the establishment of staging areas, triage and treatment areas, supply caches, etc in support of CERT field operations. 8. Complete all necessary FEMA and CERT forms relating to CERT activities and gather any CERT forms filled out from CERT field teams. 9. Release CERT resources as prudent. 10. Deactivate assembly areas in coordination with the Operations Section. 11. Turn all appropriate forms into the Admin/Finance Section. 12. Lead the CERT teams in post - incident briefings. 13. Represent the CERT teams in Operations and EOC post - incident briefings Primary Responsibilities Actions Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 196 Checklist 17 CERT Team Liaison Continued 14. Maintain awareness for post - trauma stress of CERT volunteers. Coordinate necessary counseling sessions, if needed. Deactivation and Recovery - continued The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 197 Checklist 18 Planning Section Chief Manage the collection, documentation, evaluation, analysis, and maintenance of all information relating to the emergency response Manage the following: Situation Status Building inspections Damage Assessment process Repair/construction Plan for ongoing operations Coordinate Damage Assessment Team operations with the Operations Section Develop a recovery plan fo r emergency repair jobs and emergency construction projects Ensure the survey of all structures, and the posting and restricting of entrances are completed Plan for the reoccupation of University buildings and facilities Support the Finance/Administration Section with damage assessment information Support the Joint Information Center with accurate information 1. When aware of, or notified the University is responding to a large emergency or crisis, contact the UofM Police Services and/or EOC to confirm activation of the Planning Section. The Planning Section position is assigned to the UofM Emergency Preparedness Coordinator, if this individual is tasked with other responsibilities, the Director of Administration and Business Analysis who is designated as an alternate, assumes the primary role. 2. If activated, report to the EOC. Sign in with the EOC Support staff. Immediately get a report on emergency conditions and situations. Begin a log of your activities and keep it current throughout the emergency response. 3. Activate Situation Status, ensuring the displays are set up and maintained and regular status reports are made to the EOC Management Team and all key EOC staff. Status reports should contain information on the type of situation, major incidents at the UofM, general deployment of resources, action plan for on - going operations, resources needed, summary of known damage and recommendations. 4. If University buildings and properties are damaged or safe occupancy must be verified, activate Damage Assessment to inspect buildings, placard inspections and occupancy status on buildings, assess damage and general repair estimates, and prioritize re - occupancy of buildings. Provide a general report on the status of buildings and facilities. For the Animal Care Facilities Building, work closely with the Animal Care Facilities Administration representative on the Operations Section to coordinate inspections and placard posting with the on - going operations of the building. 5. Coordinate with the Operations Section for building inspectors and contract engineering services to support emergency rescues and operations in damaged buildings or buildings in which the structural safety is questioned. The Physical Plant Unit Response Center will manage the actual deployment of inspectors and Primary Responsibilities Actions The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 198 Checklist 18 Planning Section Chief continued contractors. Ensure that the emergency response priorities of the EOC Operations Section have been communicated to the Physical Plant Unit Response Center. 6. Identify the safe buildings for occupancy at the University. This may be a higher priority than inspecting the damaged buildings, depending on the need for shelter and temporary care for people. 7. Provide analysis and recommendations to the EOC Management Team and the Operations Section for on - going operations. Determine the primary needs, operational objectives for emergency response, status of resources and capability for sustained respons e and recovery, and the primary issues involved in restoring normal operations. Plan and estimate the transition to normal operations and programs. Include forecasts of weather and the impact of regional issues including utilities, transportation, safety, restricted access, scarce resources and the ability of the University to re - occupy essential buildings and restore essential services. Provide updates to this analysis as conditions change and the emergency subsides. 8. Identify and recommend immediate repair and construction projects, prioritizing for (1) public, student and employee life safety, (2) critical support for research (3) containment of hazards and unsafe areas, and (4) priority use of buildings. Prepare an emergency repair and restoration plan to address immediate repair projects, anticipated capital improvement and repair projects and other alternatives for University facilities, roads and other properties that have been damaged. Prioritize based upon life safety, public health and safety, critical services, and other priorities established by the overall EOC Action Plan. Inquire if this plan addresses the UofM Main Campus, or if it should include damages to Lambuth Campus, Park Avenue Campus, Collierville, Millington or other sites. As authorized by the EOC Management Team, initiate repair projects. Coordinate with the Insurance/Claims position to ensure appropriate documentation and management processes that support eligibility of Federal reimbursement for qualifying projects. 9. Ensure th at Situation Status information is verified for accuracy and consistency before it is recorded or reported. Do not allow the release of any information without the consent of the EOC Management Team and/or the Public Information Officer. Provide updated information to both as soon as available. 10. Ensure that Situation Status collects and keeps track of all documentation and reports in the EOC for archive. If able, collect emails, faxed documents and other electronic reports and save on electronic media. File status updates and action plans sequentially, to assist with the after - action debriefing. 11. Monitor the list of University buildings and facilities that will be open for operations and use. Assist the EOC Management Team with planning for the resumption of critical University business operations, research operations and academic programs. Actions - continued The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 199 Checklist 18 Planning Section Chief Continued 12. Plan for the transition of emergency projects and programs to transfer to University department management. 13. Provide all documentation to the Finance/Administration Section for FEMA Disaster Assistance Program applications. 14. Provide necessary documentation to Insurance/Claims position for claims on insured properties. 15. Be prepared to continue to provide support and updates to the recovery plan throughout the recovery phase Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 200 Checklist 19 Situation Status Collect, verify and process all information and intelligence on the emergency Maintain the information on the current status of all University buildings, facilities, systems operations, and employees Maintain information on the current status of Park Ave. Campus, Collierville, Millington and other locations as necessary. Evaluate and disseminate information throughout the EOC Post and maintain status boards and other EOC displays Identify inconsistencies and verify information for accuracy Monitor radio and television broadcasts for information that may affect or impact University operations Maintain the EOC Master Log and collects reports, documentation and other communication for an archive of the activation and response Support the Joint Public Information Center with information, verification, event posting and rumor control Assist with tracking field operations, staff, and the progress of building inspections Assist Residence Life with injury and student status reports 1. When aware of, or notified the University is responding to a large emergency or crisis, report to the EOC. 2. Sign - in with the EOC Administration staff. Immediately get a report on emergency conditions and situations and activate the EOC Master Log and status boards. 3. Set up maps for posting information. Status reports should contain: Type of situation(s) Major events and ongoing incidents posted on maps Deployment of UofM staff and equipment Status of Students, Staff, Faculty and possible Visitors Status of all UofM buildings, properties and operations Status of Park Ave. Campus, Colliervil le, Millington and other locations affected Problems outstanding Weather Resources needed Summary of known damage Estimate of financial impact (as available) 4. On the EOC Master Log, record significant information and decisions in the EOC. The log may be maintained electronically as a word file document, or kept manually on chart board notepaper. If electronic, print out at regular intervals for the Planning Section Chief and the EOC Management Team. Number and date/time stamp all pages sequentially, to serve as a record of the EOC activation. Primary Responsibilities Actions The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 201 Checklist 19 Situation Status continued 5. Receive reports and information from the Operations Group and the teams in the EOC and summarize for posting in the EOC. Display the information in a clear manner, to allow staff to view updates and understand what is happening. 6. Provide status summary reports for the Planning Section Chief. Alert the Planning Section Chief, the Operations Section Chief and the EOC Management Team o f critical information as soon as it is known. Assist with EOC briefings. 7. Monitor radio and television broadcasts for information that is of importance to emergency operations, including: Weather Transportation routes Local sheltering sites Major situations or activities in the City of Memphis, and Shelby, Jackson, Tipton, Desoto and Crittenden Counties. 8. Evaluate information and disseminate it to EOC staff; assist with EOC briefings. 9. Establish an email collection point and have all email reports forwarded for documentation. Review faxed reports into the EOC for information, and collect for archival and documentation. 10. Analyze and verify information as much as possible. Work with the Joint Information Center to correct misinformation and inaccuracie s. 11. Provide situation summary updates to visitors and guests in the EOC, as requested. 12. Take pictures of status boards at regular intervals as a record - keeping measure, to track the progress of operations. 13. Inform the Planning Section to plan for ongoing operations and extended support services. 14. Keep all original EOC logs, photos of status boards, and status summary reports in a binder or file for documentation. Actions continued Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 202 Checklist 20 Damage Assessment Manage the collection, evaluation and calculation of damage information and loss estimates Provide current and ongoing damage estimates to the EOC Provide estimates of content loss for buildings and facilities Identify salvage opportunities for content and assets Prepare reports for the Preliminary Damage Assessment (PDA) report for submission to FEMA Supports inspections and emergency repair with estimates for emergency projects Supports FEMA/Recovery Team Leader with damage estimates and summaries to support application and program eligibility Manage the inspections, posting, reporting, and documentation of University buildings and facilities Coordinate with Physical Plant Unit Response Center to deploy the Building Inspection Teams 1. When aware of or notified the University is responding to a large emergency or crisis, contact UofM Police Services and/or EOC to confirm activation of the Planning Section. 2. If activated, report to the EOC. Sign in with the EOC Administration staff. Immediately get a report on emergency conditions and situations. Begin a log of your activities and keep it current throughout the emergency response. 3. Verify with the Planning Section Chief the type of assessment needed: Loss estimat es are generally based on damage to known value which results in a loss Repair/reconstruction estimates are based on projects and restoration estimates, and are higher than losses Financial impacts include loss of revenue, inventory, medical, fees, liability and/or other incurred expenses Initial damage assessment reports are usually a calculation of loss. However, FEMA program information may include the other costs, as appropriate 4. DO NOT RELEASE DAMAGE ASSESSMENT INFORMATION OUTSIDE OF THE EOC UNLESS APPROVED BY THE EOC MANAGEMENT TEAM . 5. As damage becomes known and inspection reports are available, prepare summary reports on the status of University buildings, facilities and systems and the estimated dollar amounts of damage. The following criteria may be used in the general assessment of damage to buildings and facilities: Building Value (may be known) Estimated damage percent Calculation of loss based on value or replacement value per square foot Calculation of loss of contents based on value or replacement value Calculation of cost of repair to utilities Primary Responsibilities Actions The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 203 Checklist 20 Damage Assessment continued 6. If there will be a delay before the inspections teams are ready to be deployed, coordinate with the Operations Section to send out teams to conduct rapid surveys of the Campus to ascertain the general condition of buildings, roads and utilities. If the URCs are not activated, have the teams communicate directly with you or the Operations Section via cell phones or radios. These teams do not need special training, they are to report only on what they see and not enter buildings or hazardous areas. 7. Determine how many Building Inspection Teams will be needed. If the URCs do not have sufficient staff, work with the URCs and the Logistics Section Chief to activate contracted services of engineers. The contractors should report to the URCs for assignments. 8. Check with Physical Plant to determine if a building manager or other physical plant staff will be available in the field to meet the Inspection Teams. Coordinate inspection operations with the Animal Care Facilities representative in the EOC. Inspections may need to be coordinated with the ACF staff . 9. Keep track of building inspections and forward to Situation Status. Maintain a list or keep track on the map. Note the color of placards and tags of buildings. For hazardous buildings (red tagged), forward to the Operations Section for security operations. 10. If the disaster is an earthquake, be prepared to send Building Inspection Teams to re - inspect buildings following any aftershocks. 11. Identify the departments and occupants of damaged buildings. As able, estimate damage and loss to contents and assets AS AN ESTIMATE FOR PRELIMINARY REPORTS. If able, c ontact department representatives to get general reports of contents and/or damage. Please note that detailed information on actual losses must be obtained from each school or department and will be needed to complete either FEMA Disaster Assistance Program applications or insurance reimbursement. Forward all detailed information to the University department that will manage the recovery and replacement of lost and damaged assets. 12. Keep track of damage assessment and loss estimation on a spreadsheet and list by building or address. Update as information becomes available. 13. Provide damage summary reports by FEMA categories, if requested. The categories are (based on current application forms this may change in the future): Category A: Debris removal Category B: Emergency protective measures Category C: Road systems and bridges Category D: Water control facilities Category E: Public buildings and contents Category F: Public utilities Category G: Parks, recreational, and other Actions continued The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 204 Checklist 20 Damage Assessment continued 14. Forward all documentation to the Finance/Administration Section Chief for post - disaster recovery documentation. 15. Provide necessary documentation to Insurance/Claims EOC representative for claims on insured properties. Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 205 Checklist 21 Emergency Projects Coordinate with the Physical Plant URC for emergency repair and construction projects Prepare an immediate repair and restoration plan for the University based on priority Track estimated costs for repair projects Support the recovery and resumption of critical University programs and operations 1. When aware of, or notified the University is responding to a large emergency or crisis, contact UofM Police Services and/or EOC to confirm activation of the Planning Section. 2. If activated, report to the EOC. Sign in. Immediately get a report on emergency conditions and situations from the Planning Section Chief. Begin a log of your activities and keep it current throughout the emergency response. 3. With Planning Section members, assess the damage, impacts and response operations to identify the priorities for immediate repair, clean up and service restoration. Generally, the priorities are: Utilities Safety shore - up to prevent collapse or further damage Access and debris removal Clean - up and removal of hazardous conditions Service restoration to critical buildings for emergency operations Service restoration to protect live assets and critical research inventory Service restoration for business resumption Building re - occupancy 4. With this information, develop an Emergency Projects Plan with cost estimates and schedule projections. Summarize and present to the Planning Section Chief for authorization. 5. As authorized, work with the Physical Plant URC to initiate projects and coordinate repair operations with the ongoing emergency operations at the Campus. If the URC needs support, work with the Logistics Section to set up emergency contracts. 6. Provide Damage Assessment with updated project cost estimates and related information. 7. Ensure building posting and occupancy status is updated as repairs are made. 8. Forward all documentation to the Finance/Administration Section Chief for post - disaster recovery documentation. Primary Responsibilities Actions Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 206 Checklist 22 Logistics Section Chief Primary Responsibilities Coordinate and manage the procurement, delivery, distribution, and tracking of University emergency resources and support for the response operation, including: University supplies, equipment, materials and services Contracted services Transportation services Volunteers and Human Resources Management Emergency support for staff and U niversity shelter sites Coordinate with the Operations Section Chief in the planning for, anticipation of and pre - staging of, critical services and resources during emergency response operations Support the Finance/Administration emergency accounting and documentation process Actions 1. When aware of or notified the University is responding to a large emergency or crisis, contact UofM Police Services and/or EOC to confirm activation of the Logistics Section. The Assistant Vice President for Physical Plant is assigned the position of Logistics Section Chief, the Manager of Physical Plant Safety and Training is designated as an immediate alternate. 2. If activated, report to the EOC. Sign in with the EOC Support staff. Immediately get a report on emergency conditions and situations. Begin a log of your activities and keep it current throughout the emergency response. 3. Work with the Logistics Section members to assess the damage, impacts and response operations to identify the potential need for resources both immediate and in the recovery period. Request a general inventory of all available resources at the University. This includes fuel, food, personnel, equipment, vehicles, maintenance and services supplies, and any other services. Identify key resources that may need procurement, and plan for all logistics required with procuring and delivering supplies and services. 4. Activate the emergency purchasing process to procure resources. Work with the Finance/Administration Section Chief to ensure a ppropriate accounting processes. Confer as needed with the other EOC Section Chiefs to establish vendor selection criteria and processes. Existing listings of pre - qualified vendors may fulfill this requirement. 5. Contact the Operations Section Chief, Care and Shelter, Residence Life and Emergency Staff Services to determine what services will be needed on Campus to care for people. Estimate the support requirements and assess the capability of supplies on hand to meet the need. 6. Coordinate with the Operations Section and determine if the shelter is to be managed by the Red Cross and if so, determine what services will, if any, be provided by the University. If the shelter service is open to the public and is completely managed by the Red Cross, it m ay be necessary to work closely with The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 207 the Resources Team at the Shelby County EOC or the City of Memphis EOC to coordinate support operations. Actions continued 7. If staff resources are needed to augment the emergency response operations, establish a volunteer recruitment and assignment process. Have the Human Resources function coordinate with the following departments: Human Resources Animal Care Facilities Residence Life Establish a central location for the coordination and deployment of volunteers. 8. For any operations involved in the evacuation and movement of large groups of people, work closely with the Operations Section to support all aspects of evacuating people, including: Emergency transportation Delivery point Temporary shelter and care needs Food, water and sanitation support Reuniting and notification for families Crisis counseling Security and safety 9. If mutual aid resources are requested and the University will be providing mutual aid to another agency, ensur e the following is documented by the Operations Section or by the Logistics Section: Type of mutual aid requested, including specifications for drivers, operators, fuel, power and any requirements for operation Location requested Name of requesting agency Name and contact information for person - in - charge at the site receiving mutual aid Time and duration for the provision of mutual aid Personnel support available or to be provided Keep track of University resources sent to support other agencies. 10. Organize and track the utilization of University major supplies, equipment and transportation. Work with the EOC Management Team and the Operations Section Chief to allocate scarce resources to the highest and best priority use. Communicate this documentation requirement to departments and supporting the Logistics Section. 11. Support the Operations Section functions that are providing shelter and rest areas for staff and other emergency workers, including the EOC staff. If the activation will be prolonged, plan for extended support services. Also provide support and logistics to assist University staff that may be stranded at the University. Assist the Operations Section with services and management of care and relocation services, as requested. 12. Ensure documentation for requests, costs and procurement processes are forwarded to the Finance/Administration Section. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 208 Checklist 22 Logistics Section Chief continued Actions continued 13. Work as a team to set up the staging of the resources at each primary site where emergency response operations are in progress. If no resources are available to support a site, advise the Operations Section Chief. Estimate the support requirements for the response and assess the capability of supplies on hand to meet the need. Develop a plan to provide support through the services of other public agencies or contracting with outside services, as needed. 14. If critical research programs or other University business operations are to b e relocated, provide resources and logistics support, as requested. Deactivation and Recovery 15. Assist Finance/Administration with the collection of documentation and records. 16. Manage the transition process of transferring all reports, files, claims and investigations, open contracts, purchases or other transactions to normal operations and the appropriate departments for follow up, final payments, and resolution . The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 209 Checklist 23 Resource Procurement Primary Responsibilities Coordinate and manage the procurement, delivery, distribution, and tracking of University emergency resources and support for the response operation, including University supplies, equipment, materials and services Procure vended and contracted resources and services Coordinate and support documentation of emergency procurement with the Finance/Administration Section Actions 1. When aware of, or notified the University is responding to a large emergency or crisis, contact UofM Police Services and/or EOC to confirm activation of the Logistics Section. 2. If activated, report to the EOC. Sign in with the EOC Finance staff. Immediately get a report on emergency conditions and situations. Begin a log of your activities and keep it current throughout the emergency response. 3. Activate the emergency purchasing process to procure resources and coordinate with the Accounting function to follow the EOC Accounting processes. Prepare to establish vendor selection criteria and processes, if outside resources will be needed. Existing listings of pre - qualified vendors may fulfill this requirement. 4. As a team, assess and anticipate the needs for the emergency response. This includes fuel, food, personnel, equipment, vehicles, maintenance and services supplies, and any other services. Communicate and coordinate with department staff and Unit Response Centers to access resources and support services for the emergency response and recovery operations. 5. Arrange all logistics for purchasing, procurement and delivery of resources. Provide as much support as possible to the emergency operations by delivering resources and taking care of associated documentation. Track the involvement of procured resources and note when no longer needed and service provision has ceased. 6. If mutual aid resources are requested and the University will be providing mutual aid to another agency, as requested, document and track University resources that are provided. Include the following: a. Type of mutual aid requested, including specifications for drivers, operators, fuel, power and any requirements for operation b. Location requested c. Name of requesting agency d. Name and contact information for person - in - charge at the site receiving mutual aid e. Time and duration for the provision of mutual aid f. Personnel support available or to be provided 7. Coordinate documentation of the hours and costs associated with the utilization of major resources with the Finance/Administration Section. Communicate this documentation requirement to department staff and Unit Response Centers supporting the Logistics Section. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 210 Checklist 23 Resource Procurement continued Actions - continued 8. Provide necessary documentation to the Insurance/Claims EOC representative for claims on insured properties. 9. Work with the Planning Section to plan for ongoing operations and extended support services. Deactivation and Recovery 10. Forward all information needed for FEMA documentation to the Finance/Administration Section. 11. Transition the management of contracts and services to the appropriate departments when the EOC is deactivated. 12. As requested, provide support and communication to vendors assisting with invoicing and payment procedures. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 211 Checklist 24 Human Resources Staff and Volunteers Primary Responsibilities Maintain the general status on University staff Monitors reports of injuries and fatalities Coordinates the deployment of volunteers from University staff pools to assist with emergency operations Handles welfare inquiries and other issues regarding the status of University Employees Actions 1. When aware of, or notified the University is responding to a large emergency or crisis, contact UofM Police Services and/or EOC to confirm activation of the Logistics Section. 2. If activated, report to the EOC. Sign in. Immediately get a report on emergency conditions and situations. Begin a log of your activities and keep it current throughout the emergency response. 3. As information is known regarding the emergency response operations, assess the numbers and status of employees involved in the response and/or impacted by the disaster. Track by department, if able. 4. If emergency response operations are extended and volunteer help is needed, establish a center for receiving volunteers and assigning volunteers. Th is may be managed by the Human Resources Unit Response Center if established. Work with the Public Information Officer position to determine how to communicate the need for volunteer help to employees and to disseminate information on reporting location(s). Volunteers may be needed to assist with temporary business operations, salvage operations, answering telephone inquiries and working with displaced staff at relocation areas. Track the assignment of volunteers. Ensure that volunteer workers are supported with food, water and sanitation and that they have a supervisor or coordinator in charge of the site operation. 5. If specialized staff resources will be needed to augment the emergency response operations, assess the availability of University staff from Unit Response Centers and departments. Work with Student Health Services for physicians, nurses and research staff, and trained counseling staff. Additional resources may be available from the Residence Life and Animal Care Facilities representatives in the Operations Section. 6. If temporary services are needed for skilled labor or emergency hires, work with the Resource Procurement member of the team for contractual services. 7. If the University is receiving a large volume of welfare inquiries, work with the EOC Management to establish a process for managing the inquiries. If the disaster is widespread, the American Red Cross may handle this function. There may be a 1 - 800 - number for this service. Deactivation and Recovery 8. Forward all files and documentation to the appropriate departments when the EOC is deactivated. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 212 Checklist 25 UofM Site Inventory Goods, Materials and Equipment Primary Responsibilities Inventory the major supplies and equipment Allocate University supplies and equipment, as needed Provide for all logistical arrangements for delivery and use of University supplies and equipment Request the purchasing of additional supplies and equipment to support emergency operations and augment depleted supplies Actions 1. When aware of or notified the University is responding to a large emergency or crisis, contact UofM Police Services and/or EOC to confirm activation of the Logistics Section. 2. If activated, report to the EOC. Sign in. Immediately get a report on emergency conditions and situations. Begin a log of your activities and keep it current throughout the emergency response. 3. With the Logistics Section members, assess the damage, impacts and response operations to identify the potential need for resources both immediate and in the recovery period. Identify the use of and need for, supplies and equipment. Develop a list of needed items and estimate location and time needed. 4. Conduct a general inventory of all available material resources at the University. This includes fuel, food, equipment, and supplies. Work with departments and Unit Response Centers to access resources and support services for the emergency response and recovery operations. 5. Develop an action plan for the prov ision of materials, goods and equipment in support of emergency operations. Provide for all logistics including transportation, delivery, receipt, and dissemination of materials, goods, and equipment. If the University does not have sufficient inventory to support operations, work with the Logistics Section Chief and the Resources Procurement staff to procure resources. 6. Track the delivery and utilization of supplies. If the emergency response phase will be prolonged, plan for the purchase of additional supplies to continue emergency support and replace used inventory. 7. Ensure University staff operators of equipment are trained in the safe use and operation of the equipment. It may be necessary to contract certified operators if the University does not have staff available. 8. As emergency operations subside, track the return of equipment and unused supplies to the departments and owners. Coordinate the return of all rentals and leased equipment. Deactivation and Recovery 9. Forward all documentation of mat erials, goods and equipment used in the emergency response to the Finance/Administration Section. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 213 Checklist 26 Transportation Services, Vehicles Primary Responsibilities Track and inventory all University vehicles, fuel and maintenance equipment, and services Arrange for the use of UofM vehicles and drivers Coordinate public transportation services Actions 1. When aware of or notified the University is responding to a large emergency or crisis, contact UofM Police Services and/or EOC to confirm the activation of the Logistics Section. 2. If activated, report to the EOC. Sign in. Immediately get a report on emergency conditions and situations. Begin a log of your activities and keep it current throughout the emergency response. 3. With the Logistics Section members, assess the damage, impacts and response operations to identify the potential need for resources both immediate and in the recovery period. Identify the use of and need for, transportation vehicles, drivers and services. Develop a list of transportation needs and estimated location and time needed. 4. Conduct a general inventory of all available vehicles, drivers, fuel and tires at the University. Work with departments and Unit Response Centers to inventory available vehicles and drivers not already allocated to the emergency response operations. 5. Work with the other Logistics Section members to develop an anticipated transportation plan in support of the emergency response and recovery operations. If it is anticipated that the University will be evacuating or relocating large groups of people, be prepared to provide transportation support either with University assets or via public resources. Determine the priorities of transportation, as follows: Emergency medical life support people and supplies Immediate evacuation of people Resource delivery to Emergency Response Operations at extremely hazardous incidents Transportation of critical staff Relocation of people Delivery of resources and supplies Public transportation 6. Ensure University staff operators of vehicles are trained in the safe use and operation of the vehicles. If vehicles are damaged or involved in accidents, document as much as possible and forward the information to the Insurance/Claims position. 7. As drivers and vehicles are assigned to incidents and tasks, determine who will be directing the activities of the drivers and vehicles the Operations Section or the URC. If the drivers will be coordinated by the Physical Plant Unit Response Center, ensure there is communication between the drivers and the URC. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 214 Checklist 26 Transportation Services, Vehicles - continued Actions - continued 8. Contact the Shelby County Office of Emergency Preparedness to determine the status of public transportation services. The External Liaison in the EOC may help with this request as they are in communication with the other EOCs and outside agencies. 9. Check with Situation Status to verify safe transportation roads, highways and freeways for routing. Estimate travel times and work on alternate routes to avoid congestion. 10. If mutual aid requests are received for University vehicles and operators, confer with the Logistics Section Chief for authorization to provide mutual aid resources. Track University vehicles and transportation services provided to other agencies. 11. If private vehicles will be used voluntarily, track the use of those vehicles. This may be needed in extreme conditions to augment transportation needs. 12. As emergency operations subside, track the return of vehicles to the departments and owners. Deactivation and Recovery 13. Forward all documentation of vehicles used in the emergency response to the Finance/Administration Section. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 215 Checklist 27 Emergency Food, Water and Sanitation Primary Responsibilities Ensure emergency food and water are provided for personnel Provide for EOC support Provide for emergency sanitation and bathroom facilities Actions 1. When aware of or notified the University is responding to a large emergency or crisis, contact UofM Police Services and/or EOC to confirm activation of the Logistics Section. 2. If activated, report to the EOC. Sign in. Immediately get a report on emergency conditions and situations. Begin a log of your activities and keep it current throughout the emergency response. 3. With the Logistics Section members, assess the damage, impacts and response operations to identify the requirements for food, water and sanitation both immediate and in the recovery period. Develop a li st of needs including numbers of people to be served and locations where services should be provided. Determine if food, water and sanitation services should be provided at central locations, or provided near the emergency response operations. 4. Start with providing for the EOC staff, activated Unit Response Centers and field response teams. Work with the Operations Section to plan the set - up of rest areas for University workers, including contractors and volunteers. The sites should be secured from public view and access. Ensure the following are provided for: Food (at least one hot meal per day per person) Water drinking Water washing Portable toilets Additional resources include: Coffee/tea and other hot drinks in cold weather Shade from sun and/or p rotection from rain Chairs and cots for resting Garbage and waste collection Telephones and message areas, if available On site staff to assist and manage services If these additional resources are needed, work with the Logistics Section members to identify inventory and services and plan to deliver, as requested. 5. Inventory all food, water and sanitation supplies that are available on - site at the University. Vended services may have food and water supplies stored on site. Make arrangements for emergency purchase of supplies from site vendors and use those first. 6. Work with the Operations Care and Shelter, and Emergency Staff Services to support needs for food, water and sanitation services. Plan to efficiently support emergency response operations as well as temporary care and shelter services by combining services, as possible. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 216 Checklist 27 Emergency Food, Water and Sanitation continued Actions - continued Note that unless directed by the EOC Management Team, these services are not intended for the general public who may be sheltered at the University. If there is a public shelter on site, it should be managed and completely supported by the Red Cross. It requests are received to support public shelters, confirm authorization from the EOC Management Team and the Logistics Section Chief. 7. For prolonged operations, vended services from local businesses and/or caterers may be available to support the EOC and emergency workers. Determine the cost effectiveness and efficiency of the delivery of sack or box meals to support operations. Work with the Resources Procurement function to make arrangements for vended services. 8. Ensure that services are available to contractors and any mutual aid or volunteer workers at the U niversity. 9. Continue to provide services as needed. Deactivation and Recovery 10. Terminate services and transition to normal operations when the EOC is deactivated or normal services are restored. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 217 Checklist 28 Communications/Computing Primary Responsibilities Coordinates between UofM Technology Unit Response Center (URC), UofM Technology EOC Operations position, and other EOC positions. Provides status for campus communications/computing services for disaster response. Plans for and e stablishes alternate and emergency computing in support of the EOC and critical campus operations. Maintains, operates, and deploys emergency communication tools Provides technical support for the Joint Public Information Center and Crisis Communications. Manages the utilization of the UofM Amateur Radio group and services (Ham) when available. Actions 1. Report to the EOC. Establish communication with the UofM Technology Unit Response Center if established. 2. Provide a report of the status of Campus communications and computing resources available for the disaster response operations. This includes: UofM Home page, Personal Safety Alerts, and myMemphis (portal) UofM Hotline (678 - 0888) TigerText Social Media sites (Facebook, Twitter) Alertus Safe and S ound Bulk email UofM EOC laptops, printers, and other ancillary equipment UofM EOC portable radios Warning sirens and exterior and interior public address systems 3. Evaluate the overall emergency response operations for damage, impacts to campus communications/computing services and identify communication needs between the EOC and incidents on campus. 4. Coordinate with UofM Technology URC, UofM Technology Operations position, and other UofM technology support personnel to implement and support emergency communications/computing services and resources for disaster response operations. 5. Provide technical support to the Joint Public Information Center and Crisis Communications Teams with the dissemination of emergency communication. This includes: U pdates on UofM Home, UofM Personal Safety Alerts and myMemphis(portal) web pages Updates on the UofM Information Hotline Notifications and updates for the Crisis Communications team Press releases The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 218 Checklist 28 Communications/Computing continued Actions - continued 6. If the UofM Amateur Radio service is available, manage the use of the Ham radio services. This service can be used to communicate with other emergency response agencies and personnel. 7. Coordinate the details of these plans, tasks, and priorities with the UofM Technology URC and incorporate into the Logistics Section Action Plan. Provide ongoing communication and coordination between and the UofM Technology URC and the EOC. 8. Staff the EOC Logistics Sect ion as long as needed or until relieved. Relief, Deactivation, and Recovery 9. If you being relieved: Clean your work area and complete all required documentation Brief the person relieving you and provide contact information Sign out of the EOC. 10. If the EOC is deactivated by the EOC Director Clean your work area and complete all required documentation Assist with the breakdown/deactivation of EOC communications Sign out of the EOC Participate in after action review meetings to identify areas of improvement for the EOC and coordination of field emergency operations. Participate in all appropriate post - incident recovery and reimbursement activities. The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 219 Checklist 29 Finance/Administration Section Chief Expense and cost summary reports of disaster related expenses for the EOC Director and EOC Management Group Activation of the Emergency Accounting function Support to the EOC Director for business decisions regarding cost/benefit of services and strategies If needed, activation of the documentation process for the FEMA disaster assistance application Summary reports on the short and long - term financial impacts of the emergency and recommend appropriate actions 1. When aware of or notified the University is responding to a large emergency or crisis, contact UofM Police Services and/or EOC to confirm activation of the Finance/Administration Section. The Assistant Vice President for Finance is assigned the position of Finance/Administration Section Chief, 2. If activated, report to the EOC. Sign in. Immediately get a report on emergency conditions and situations. Begin a log of your activities and keep it current throughout the emergency response. 3. If emergency procurement will be needed, activate the Emergency Ac counting function and emergency accounting procedures. Brief EOC staff on the use of accounting codes as well as the process for providing source documents of orders, invoices and receipts to the Finance/Administration Section. 4. Assist the EOC Director and other Section Chiefs in the EOC with tracking and filing source documentation. Provide as much support as possible to other teams and functions for finance documentation during the EOC activation. 5. Work with the Planning Section Chief to coordinate photographs and other documentation in support of anticipated FEMA disaster assistance programs for building and facility damage. Work with Human Resources to obtain information on injuries and casualties, which may result in case files, investigations and /or claims. 6. Working with the other Section Chiefs in the EOC, prepare summary reports on total costs and anticipated losses to UofM programs and budgets. Provide estimates and other information, as requested by the EOC Director, on the fiscal impacts of continuing operations and response strategies. If requested, provide cost benefit information in support of the analysis of alternatives or strategies for emergency operations and repairs. 7. If the information is available, provide a summary report of the estimated total cost recovery anticipated from insurance and FEMA disaster assistance. 8. If normal University operations will be interrupted for more than three days, provide estimates to the EOC Director of impacts to grants, program budgets, estimated loss of revenue and other budget considerations. Primary Responsibilities Actions The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 220 Checklist 29 Finance/Administration Section Chief continued 9. Direct the post - emergency accounting transition to normal operations. 10. Assist with preparing a summary report of the damage and incidents that occurred. Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 221 Checklist 30 Emergency Accounting Management of the emergency accounting system for the University Emergency Operations Center Verification of all expenditures by the University EOC to confirm account codes, invoices and associated documentation Prepare and begin a process for the proper maintenance of the FEMA documentation information package (for Public Assistance cost - recovery) Maintain the docum entation files, supporting the Federal Disaster Assistance Application process 1. When aware of or notified the University is responding to a large emergency or crisis, contact UofM Police Services and/or EOC to confirm activation of the Finance/Administration Section. 2. If activated, report to the EOC. Sign in with the EOC Support Staff. Immediately get a report on emergency conditions and situations. Begin a log of your activities and keep it current throughout the emergency response. 3. If emergency procurement will be needed, set up the emergency account numbers for the EOC. This includes assigning account numbers and/or expense code numbers and arranging to receive copies of all accounting documentation. If power and/or network access is not available, a temporary manual accounting system may need to be used in the EOC. 4. Obtain copies of all purchase orders, contracts, labor - hour reports and other expense records pertaining to the emergency response, as needed, to verify expenses. 5. At the end of each 24 - hour period and as directed, total all expenses and costs of the emergency. Include labor and equipment charges, as well as purchases and contracts. 6. Support and assist purchasing, as requested, with account information. 7. If it appears th e Governor and the President will declare Memphis/Shelby County a disaster area for the purposes of federal disaster relief, set up the FEMA documentation process. All documentation is collected by site, and either the individual site or the University as a whole will be issued a Disaster Survey Report #. All documentation is then summarized by the Project Worksheet (PW) #. If the PW has not or will not be issued, collect documentation and data by site. 8. Review the following list of items for documenting damage and repairs. These items will be needed for both insured losses and anticipated FEMA disaster recovery program eligible losses. Photographs and sketches of damage Urgency of the project and reasons for public health, safety, etc. Identification of all public staff and equipment used in the response time and expenses Primary Responsibilities Actions The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 222 Checklist 30 Emergency Accounting continued Identification of all vended services used in the response time, materials and expenses Identification of all mutual aid services used in the response time, materials and expenses Process for selection of vended services (3 bids, lowest bid, extension of existing contract, etc.) Documentation and photographs of work done Other data including: hazard mitigation (upgrades so that damage will not occur in future events), co - pay by cooperating agencies, public/private partnerships, etc. 9. Provide an Accounting summary report of accounting activities, actions taken, and related information for the Finance/Administration Section Chief. Support the transition to normal operations. 10. Consult with the Insurance/Claims representative about cost of continuing insurance required by FEMA public assistance program or the State of Tennessee. Make an assessment of the value of relief recovery compared to the cost of continuing insurance premiums. 11. The Tennessee Emergency Management Agency will provide information on FEMA post - disaster briefing meetings (usually held 2 weeks after a federally - declared disaster). Make arrangements to have key UofM officials attend the briefing with other UofM representatives and be prepared to submit a Notice of Interest at that time. Note that FEMA makes adjustments to the Public Assistance application process from time - to - time. The most current and newest information should be reviewed thoroughly to determine the correct procedures and processes necessary for the UofM to maximize its request for Federal/State funds. 12. Assist with preparing a summary report of the damage and incidents that occurred. Actions - continued Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 223 Checklist 31 Insurance/Claims Prepare and maintain insurance documentation files and manage the insurance claims process Assess the risk and liability issues to the University and emergency responders in the emergency response operation 1. Report to the EOC, if the emergency is severe. Otherwise, be available for 24/7 phone or email consultation by members of the EOC team. Obtain a briefing on all operations, damage, injuries and recovery operations. Assess the risk and liability issues to the University and emergency responders in the emergency response operation and provide recommendations, if needed, to manage risk and liability exposure. 2. If immediate investigation and reporting is needed for injury reports and claims, set up a process for reporting and gathering information. Ensure procedures are followed in reporting injuries and casualties to the appropriate staff and agencies. Protect the confidentiality of victims and injured parties, as necessary during the emergency response phase. 3. Assist with preparing a summary report of the damage and incidents that occurred. Primary Responsibilities Actions Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 224 Checklist 32 Employee Compensation Support the Finance/Administration Section Chief regarding cost/benefit of services and strategies Record expenses for cost summary report for the EOC Director and EOC Management Group Respond to payroll related issues Prepare communications for employees regarding payroll related issues 1. When aware of or notified the University is responding to a large emergency or crisis, contact UofM Police Services and/or EOC to confirm the activation of the Finance/Administration Section. 2. If activated, report to the EOC. Sign in. Immediately get a report on emergency conditions and situations. Begin a log of your activities and keep it current throughout the emergency response. 3. Assist Finance/Administration Section Chief to activate emergency procurement if needed, activate the Emergency Accounting function and the emergency account system. Brief EOC staff on the use of accounting codes as well as the process for providing source documents of orders, invoices and receipts to the Finance/Administration Section. 4. Assist the EOC Director and other Section Chiefs in the EOC with tracking and filing source documentation. Provide as much support as possible to other teams and functions for finance documentation during the EOC activation. 5. Support and assist purchasing, as requested, with account information. 6. If there is damage or reported injuries, work with the Finance/Administration Section Chief to activate the FEMA/Recovery Team to manage the documentation of claims and applications for reimbursement. 7. Respond to payroll related issues; active disaster recovery plan. Where are we in the payroll cycle? 8. Prepare communication/response for employees payroll related issues. 9. Assist the Finance/Administration Section Chief to direct the post - emergency accounting transition to normal operations. 10. Assist with preparing a summary report of the damage and incidents that occurred. 11. Perform post payroll review. Where are we at in the payroll cycle? Follow Business Continuity Plan to resume normalcy. Primary Responsibilities Actions Deactivation and Recovery The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 225 Emergency Management Acronyms AAR - Action Report American Council of Government Industrial Hygienists ANSI National Standards Institute Vice President BLEVE Liquid Expanding Vapor Explosion BSE Spongiform Encephalopathy disease CA Agreement Air Act CBO Based Organization CBR Biological, and Radiological CBRNE Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and Explosive CDC Disease Control and Prevention CERT Emergency Response Team Emergency Management, also Certified Emergency Manager CFR of Federal Regulations Plan CMT Team DAT Assessment Teams Field Office of Homeland Security of Health and Human Services DOT of Transportation Action Plan EHS Hazardous Substance Health and Safety Management Agency Management Assistance Compact Management Accreditation Program Management Performance Grants Medical Services EOC Operations Center Operations Plan Environmental Protection Agency Planning and Community Right to Know Act EPZ Planning Zone Response Plan ERT Response Teams ESF Support Function FCO Coordinating Officer FEC Emergency Coordinator Federal Emergency Management Agency Year GIS Information System HAZWOPER Waste Operations and Emergency Response Mitigation Grant Program HS Act Security Act of 2002 Security Presidential Directive The University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan 226 Analysis HVAC Ventilation, and Air Conditioning IC Commander ICS Command System JIC Information Center LEPC Emergency Planning Committee MAA Aid Agreement Medical Response System of Agreement Safety Data Sheet Disaster Medical System Flood Insurance Program Fire Protection Association Governors Association Governmental Organization Incident Management System Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration Profit Organization NRC Nuclear Regulatory Commission NRF Response Framework Safety and Health Administration Operating Procedures Action Guides PTSD Traumatic Stress Disorder Disaster Declaration PIO Information Officer PPE Protective Equipment RMP Management Plan Operations Plan Amendments and Reauthorization Act SERC Emergency Response Commission Operating Guideline Operating Procedure TBR Board of Regents Emergency Management Agency UASI Areas Security Initiative Relief Organization UofM, UM of Memphis USAR Search and Rescue Geological Survey Protection Act of 1997 VZ Zone of Mass Destruction