#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/cas/phil.php
PHIL Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning PHIL Courses PHILOSOPHY (PHIL) Unless otherwise stated, the following courses may be repeated for credit whenever the topic of the course is not identical to the topic of another course the student is taking or has previously taken. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: PHIL 6801-20. Special Topics in Philosophy. (3). Area to be covered appears in the online course listings the semester it is taught. PHIL 7800-7810–8800-8810. Special Topics in Philosophy. (3). PHIL 6211 - Ancient Philosophy (3) Readings from primary sources, supplemented by commentary from antiquity and modern scholarship, including Pre-Socratics, Plato, Aristotle, and the Hellenistic period. PHIL 6311 - Modern Philosophy (3) Readings from major philosophers of 17th to early 19th centuries, supplemented by commentaries from modern and contemporary sources. PHIL 6421 - Philosophy Of Mind (3) Survey of major issues and positions in recent philosophy of mind; behaviorism; reductive, non-reductive, and eliminative versions of materialism; functionalism; mental causation; phenomenal consciousness; psychoanalysis and the unconscious; computational and connectionist models of mind. PHIL 6422 - Rec Anglo American Phil (3) An examination of major developments in philosophy in England and the United States from 1900 to present with reading from such philosophers as Russell, Moore, Ayer, Wittgenstein, James, Dewey, Lewis, Quine, and other contemporary authors. PHIL 6441 - Recent Continentl Phil (3) Major figures in 20th century European thought; movements such as phenomenology, existentialism, structuralism, critical theory, and hermeneutics. PHIL 6551 - Social & Political Phil (3) In depth discussion of major philosophical theories of the individual and the state; emphasis on concepts of society, culture, institutions, government, law, power, authority, rights, and obligations. PHIL 6632 - Advanced Logic (3) The nature of axiomatic systems and foundations of mathematics. PHIL 6661 - Philosophy Of Science (3) Survey of several central issues in the philosophy of science. Topics may include issues such as competing understandings of scientific practice, scientific explanation, the continuity and discontinuity of scientific theories, and the relations between the various sciences. PHIL 6671 - Aesthetics (3) Treatment of philosophical theories concerning the nature and role of art and the possibility of aesthetic evaluation. PHIL 6801 - Phenomenology (3) Look at the historical origins and latest developments in phenomenology, a philosophical approach that focuses on consciousness, embodiment, perception, meaning, time and intersubjectivity. PHIL 7001 - Proseminar (3) May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. PHIL 7002 - Tchng Skills Grad Asst (3) This course is designed to impart the skills necessary for both serving as a teaching assistant as well as for designing and teaching one's own philosophy course. May be repeated for up to 12 hours. NOTE: Philosophy majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PHIL 7020 - Seminar Major Figures (3) PHIL 7030 - Sem Continentl Phil (3) PHIL 7040 - Sem Normative Phil (3) PHIL 7201 - Sem Classical Phil (3) PHIL 7203 - Sem Contemporary Phil (3) PHIL 7301 - Sem Modern Phil (3) PHIL 7414 - Seminar In Metaphysics (3) PHIL 7421 - Seminar In Epistemology (3) PHIL 7442 - Seminar On Heidegger (3) PHIL 7514 - Cognitive Science Seminar (3) Systematic study of current topics in Cognitive Science with an emphasis on its interdisciplinary nature. Topics will vary each semester. Only nine credit hours may be counted toward degree requirements. PHIL 7541 - Social/Political Phil (3) PHIL 7551 - Seminar Ethical Theory (3) PHIL 7994 - Reading And Research (1-9) May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PHIL 7996 - Thesis (1-9) May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PHIL 8001 - Proseminar (3) May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. PHIL 8002 - Tchng Skills Grad Asst (3) This course is designed to impart the skills necessary for both serving as a teaching assistant as well as for designing and teaching one's own philosophy course. May be repeated for up to 12 hours. NOTE: Philosophy majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PHIL 8020 - Seminar Major Figures (3) PHIL 8030 - Sem Continentl Phil (3) May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. PHIL 8040 - Sem Normative Phil (3) PHIL 8051 - Collo Phil Problems (3) PHIL 8201 - Sem Classical Phil (3) PHIL 8203 - Sem Contemporary Phil (3) PHIL 8252 - Sem On Aristotle (3) PHIL 8301 - Sem Modern Phil (3) PHIL 8414 - Seminar In Metaphysics (3) PHIL 8421 - Sem In Epistemology (3) PHIL 8442 - Seminar On Heidegger (3) PHIL 8514 - Cognitive Science Seminar (3) Systematic study of current topics in Cognitive Science with an emphasis on its interdisciplinary nature. Topics will vary each semester. Only nine credit hours may be counted toward degree requirements. PHIL 8541 - Social/Political Phil (3) PHIL 8551 - Seminar Ethical Theory (3) PHIL 8994 - Adv Reading & Research (1-12) May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PHIL 9000 - Dissertation (1-12) May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .