#http://www.memphis.edu/cepr/edpr/ug_ed_research_team.php
Undergraduate Educational Research Team - CEPR - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Counseling, Educational Psychology &amp; Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Ed Psych &amp; Research Faculty Research EDPR Menu Degrees &amp; Certificates M.S. Online M.S. Ph.D. Graduate Certificate in Qualitative Research Graduate Certificate in Quantitative Research Courses Faculty News Student Resources Admissions Apply M.S. Application M.S. Online Application Ph.D. Application International Students Graduate Assistantships Graduate Catalog Research EDPR Colloquia A-Team Childhood Study Group QUIC SPIRIT Professional Associations Statistical Consulting Undergraduate Educational Research Team View our brochure! Like us on Facebook! Home CEPR EDPR Undergraduate Educational Research Team Undergraduate Educational Research Team meetings (fall and spring semesters) Mondays 3:30 pm - 4:30 pm Ball Hall 107 faculty members Denise Winsor doctoral students Ashley Payne Undergraduate Students Danielle Davis Jessica Monroe Erica Morton who we are The Undergraduate Educational Research Team is a newly formed group (Fall 2014). This is a venue to create research opportunities for high achieving and highly motivated undergraduate students. We welcome all undergraduate students at the University of Memphis; and in particular those students interested in learning about educational research methods and actively developing associated skills and abilities related to conducting quality research. Our purpose is to ensure that undergraduate research opportunities are more prevalent at the University of Memphis; and our students are prepared to present this research within the campus community; as well as at national and international undergraduate research venues. The format of the group is didactic and practical real-world teaching, mentoring, and guiding undergraduates while actively working alongside faculty and doctoral students conducting research. Goals To expose undergraduate students to research language and concepts that enable oral and written scientific quantitative and qualitative research. To help undergraduate students understand theoretical and methodological frameworks as a means of critically examining existing research. To expose undergraduate students to a variety of research designs; and bring about an awareness of alignment of research questions and method/design. To help undergraduate students realize their potential and contributions in the research process; including the acquisition of knowledge and skills, as well as preparation for future responsibilities. To actively work with undergraduate students in collective and individual research projects. In general, provide active engagement in research opportunities for conference presentation and publication within undergraduate venues on the University of Memphis campus and beyond. The Undergraduate Educational Research Team offers research opportunities to all undergraduates, including freshmen, sophomores, and transfer students. Students can get connected to faculty and doctoral students and opportunities are available for Honors credit if approved. Current Projects In conjunction with The Helen Hardin Honors Program our undergraduate members and faculty have applied for the Honors Summer Research Fellowship Program. We will actively work on two grant funded projects through Engaged Scholarship: Jubilee Summer Enrichment Reading Program: This is a joint project between the University of Memphis and Memphis Jubilee Schools. This is the second year for the program for rising 3rd and 4th grade students to promote literacy and social/emotional development during the summer to positively impact a well-documented decline. Douglass Elementary Parent University: This is a project in the preliminary stages to create a sustainable parent learning community at Douglass Elementary School which is one of Shelby County's iZone schools. This project includes providing parents with active workshops that address their need for knowledge and understanding around topics such as; education and development, standards and assessment, health and nutrition, technology and social media. Ultimately, the goal is to obtain a longitudinal grant for this project. Future Goals Continue to develop our identity among undergraduate education and within the research community. Undergraduate students will assist with the existing projects and work on faculty research. Have undergraduate students to realize their individual research interests with the assistance of faculty mentoring. Have undergraduate students initiate their individual research with faculty mentoring. Have undergraduate students present their research on campus and beyond with faculty mentoring. Have undergraduate students submit their independent research to the University of Memphis undergraduate journal QuaesitUM. EDPR Menu Degrees &amp; Certificates M.S. Online M.S. Ph.D. Graduate Certificate in Qualitative Research Graduate Certificate in Quantitative Research Courses Faculty News Student Resources Admissions Apply M.S. Application M.S. Online Application Ph.D. Application International Students Graduate Assistantships Graduate Catalog Research EDPR Colloquia A-Team Childhood Study Group QUIC SPIRIT Professional Associations Statistical Consulting Undergraduate Educational Research Team View our brochure! Like us on Facebook! Admissions Current Students Student Organizations Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .