#http://www.memphis.edu/reslife/about/living.php
Living Learning Communities - Reslife - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Residence Life and Dining Services About Housing Dining News Resources ResNet Child Care Living on Campus Living Learning Communities Sorority Living Where to live? What to bring? Home Reslife Living on Campus Living Learning Communities LIVING LEARNING COMMUNITIES Living and Learning Communities are specialized programs that combine the conventional residential experience with support from faculty, integrated resources from sponsoring departments, and a 360-degree approach to student learning. Living Learning Community members have frequent interaction with faculty and develop strong relationships with fellow students. Residents have access to many special resources, programs and activities, such as freshman orientation, seminars, tutors, mentoring programs, and smaller classes or reserved space in regular courses. In fact, many residence halls have classroom space located just a few steps from student rooms There are numerous benefits of participating in a Living and Learning Community that extend to students, parents and the University of Memphis. Research shows that learning community students have higher GPAs, are more involved, and have increased graduation rates. Additionally, participation encourages students to make meaningful connections with their peers, faculty, and university staff, ultimately assisting in their transition to college life. Living Learning Communities offer a dedicated and distinctive themed living option to students and each community is tailored to a specific academic major or area of study. Residents maintain a genuine sense of community and receive lots of faculty interaction and guidance. All the Living Learning Communities are carefully planned and supported by University Housing staff along with the members of the community. Since all the members share interest in their community's theme, you can expect to build genuine professional relationships and life-long friends. Architecture + Design Housing Architecture and interior design education is about fostering the learning skills needed for the discovery, integration, application, and sharing of knowledge over a lifetime. To facilitate this, the Architecture + Design Community common areas serve as a multi-function place for various activities including special mentoring sessions, critiques of student work, and other supplemental learning and professional development opportunities. For more information, please email the Department of Architecture at architecture@memphis.edu or call 901.678.2724. Emerging Leaders Housing Emerging Leaders Housing is a neighborhood of exceptional students seeking to gain and enhance leadership skills. Our students participate in the University of Memphis' Emerging Leaders Scholarship Program (ELP) and work closely with faculty and staff to actively engage in leadership education. ELP students participate in a four-year intensive leadership training experience designed to enhance personal leadership and contribute significantly to a balanced, well-rounded college experience. Emerging Leaders Housing gives residents the opportunity to live in the type of community they will one day work to create. For more information, please visit or call 901.678.8679. Engineering Housing Engineering Housing residents are paired with alumnae and professional engineering mentors to network, learn career opportunities and share tips for collegiate and professional success. Members tour Memphis industries, engage faculty and staff outside of the classroom, and collaborate with peers in other engineering disciplines. Engineering Housing allows students to develop peer relations, collaborate with other engineering disciplines, and prepare to enter the workforce. For more information or to become a mentor, please call 901.678.4557. First Generation Housing: A First Scholars Initiative First Generation Housing is an intentional grouping of students wanting to maximize their opportunities for success as being one of the first in their family to attend college. This community emphasizes the shared experience and sense of responsibility many first generation students feel as they navigate their college life. Students participate in a common academic course during their first semester that focuses on the development of academic skills and strategies proven to enhance student success. Members also benefit from mandatory one-on-one academic coaching, in-hall study space, and community mentorship from a University of Memphis first generation student leader. For more information, please call 901.678.6041. First Scholars Living Learning Community First Scholars Living Learning Community is a purposeful community of 20 first-year students selected to participate in the First Scholars Program. First Scholars focus on community and campus engagement, leadership development, and successfully transitioning to college as a first-generation college student. As part of this First Scholars cohort, students will all take the same ACAD 1100 course taught by the First Scholars Program Coordinator to foster a deep understanding of the academic skills and strategies proven to enhance student success. Each participant is assigned a peer mentor to help navigate the first year. First Scholars will work with the Program Coordinator to form an individual strategic plan to meet their academic, social and co-curricular goals. For more information, please contact cframe1@memphis.edu or call 901.678.6041. Helen Hardin Honors Housing Helen Hardin Honors Housing gives first-year and upper-class students the opportunity to take classes, participate in social activities, and live with other academically talented students. Students take core interdisciplinary courses together during the first year in the program and create a strong learning community. Members are exposed to social and academic programs to enhance academic and personal success such as a welcome dinner, pizza parties with professors and study abroad workshops. For more information, please call 901.678.2690. La Casa Hispana Housing La Casa Hispana Housing is a Spanish language immersion that gives students an opportunity to improve fluency and accuracy while exploring Hispanic culture. Members are required to take a three credit hour Spanish culture related course. Students have an opportunity to engage with the local Hispanic community and study relevant Hispanic social issues. La Casa Hispana Housing provides a space for students to live in a full-time Spanish-speaking community. Scholars are able to connect with others who share similar interests, academic and personal goals. For more information, please call 901.678.2507. Music Scholars Housing Music Scholars Housing provides students with formal and informal activities to advance their musical and academic development along with real-world interaction with faculty. Members are encouraged to evaluate the place and purpose of music in their lives as a career, creative outlet, lifelong avocation or a means of serving their community. Students living in Music Scholars Housing have a 24/7 musical experience with lots of learning at home and in the classroom. Music Scholars are required to take Music Theory I and II, a music history, applied music lessons, and large ensembles. For more information, call 901.678.3018. Pre-Health Professions Housing Pre-Health Professions Housing provides a vibrant, interactive environment for students pursuing a career in healthcare. Members explore various health professions through guest speakers, readings, discussions, and workshops through an integrated systems approach. Pre-Health Professions Housing gives students extra support and access to additional advising from a dedicated advisor. For more information, please call 901.678.5454. ROTC Housing ROTC Housing facilitates a strong sense of connection and belonging, and lays the foundation for successful learning and intellectual growth. ROTC Housing offers a unique curriculum, positive atmosphere and rewarding environment to help members have a first-class collegiate experience. All military branches offered under the College of Arts and Sciences are represented. Residents participate in out of class activities to further their development into "Global Officers." For more information, please call 901.678.4025. Living on Campus Living Learning Communities Sorority Living Where to live? What to bring? Apply for Housing Apply now and secure your place on campus Campus Living Join a Living Learning Community Housing Policy Make sure you know the rules Meet the Staff Who to know and where to go Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .