#http://www.memphis.edu/tentcity/share-your-story.php
Share Your Story - Tent City: Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Tent City: Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee The Movement People Issues Organizing Resources Home Tent City: Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Share Your Story Do YOU Have a Story to Share? Adding to the Tent City story... This website covers the main events and some of the questions surrounding this important Civil Rights Era movement, but we don't know what kinds of stories, photos, journals, and creative works there are to discover out there in your family's histories and attics and memories. To enrich this story and to include a variety of perspectives, we ask you to contact us about any anecdotes or related material you may have about Tent City and/or the events leading up to it. We believe this website can grow, inspire, and uplift people today—sixty years after these events took place—who are experiencing a lack of basic human rights. Beyond Fayette County... We also believe the stories and materials gathered here have meaning beyond Fayette County. The struggle for justice is not unique to this region and here. As elsewhere, it highlighted deep divisions within the community while forcing everyone who lived in the area to think about what change might mean for their society and for themselves as individuals. We want to understand how people live and work in a shared locale during periods of social upheaval, or how they negotiate ongoing conflict while planning for an uncertain future. Tell us your story Do you have a story to tell about a real incident or person from the Fayette County Civil Rights Era? Would you like to contribute a photo or other artifact to this website? Please contact us in a brief note below and provide your name and email as contact. First Name: Last Name: Email: Share Your Story Do You Have a Story to Share? We would Like to Hear from You Moving out of Shacks and into Tents Sharecroppers were forced out of their homes and into tents Civil Rights in the 21st Century How do experiences from the 1960s affect people's feelings, hopes, or concerns about Fayette County today? Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change Teaching, Studying, and Promoting Civil Rights and Social Change Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .