#http://www.memphis.edu/wilson/programs/slm_ms.php
Sport Commerce - Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality &amp; Resort Management - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality &amp; Resort Management Programs Admissions Students Associations Faculty Careers Contact Programs BA in Hospitality and Resort Management Minor in Hospitality and Resort Management BS in Sport and Leisure Management MS in Sport Commerce MA in Hospitality and Resort Management Home Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality &amp; Resort Management Programs Sport Commerce Sport Commerce (M.S.) Major : Health and Sport Science Concentration : Sport Commerce Degree: Master of Science Contact : Tim Ryan Develops skills essential to the production, promotion, delivery, and the consumption of sport and leisure in a highly complex and technological, global market Draws on theoretical perspectives and research techniques grounded in business, the humanities, and social sciences, emphasis is placed on practical application, critical analysis, an enhanced understanding of sport and leisure, and principles underlying economic development and industrial growth The Sport Commerce concentration is approved by the Sport Management Program Review Council, a joint initiative of the North American Society for Sport Management and the National Association for Sport and Physical Education Research Emphases Sport Marketing and Promotion Consumer Analysis for the Sport and Leisure Industries Economics of Sport and Leisure Sport and Leisure Theory Organization Theory and Behavior in Sport and Leisure Sport, Leisure, and Popular Culture Sport in the Global Marketplace Sport and Leisure in Cultural History Computer Applications for Sport and Leisure Commerce Strategic Management of Sport Organization Degree Planning Degree Sheet Course Descriptions MS ONLINE DEGREE The University of Memphis is proud to announce a new online degree in Sport Commerce. Designed to meet the needs of the current or aspiring sport commerce executive, the degree program focuses on the application of management and leadership skills in the exciting field of sport commerce. Apply now for this challenging program offered by the established and accredited University of Memphis in the flexible and always accessible online format. Designed to meet the needs of current or aspiring administrators, classes are offered via the Internet, allowing students to complete work at flexible times and locations that accommodate any busy schedule. Students may choose to complete their degree completely online or on our campus. "I've been looking for an online degree program to accommodate my hectic schedule for over 10 years. This degree from a reputable program such as the University of Memphis provides the perfect fit." Alfred B. White Associate Commissioner Conference USA eCampus Information Online MS Brochure Programs BA in Hospitality and Resort Management Minor in Hospitality and Resort Management BS in Sport and Leisure Management MS in Sport Commerce MA in Hospitality and Resort Management Apply Submit your application today Undergraduate Advising We’re here to help Looking for appointment with Academic Advisor? Look here. Graduate Advising Faculty advisors aid in your success Financial Assistance Looking for financial assistance, including scholarships? Look here. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/4/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .