#http://www.memphis.edu/cms/fin-aid-policies.php
Financial Aid, Policies and Procedures - CMS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Community Music School Programs Policies/Financial Aid Faculty Register Home CMS Financial Aid, Policies and Procedures Policies &amp; Financial Support COMMUNITY MUSIC SCHOOL 935 West Park Loop, Building 2 Memphis, TN 38152 (901) 678-4244 Phone | (901) 678-1392 Fax FALL SEMESTER (16 WEEKS) August 24 – December 19, 2015 About Financial Aid The Community Music School has a limited number of financial aid awards available to assist families in need. Financial aid awards are partial (10-30% off of tuition) and eligibility is determined by gross household income and number of household members. See chart provided . If you do not meet the income requirement guidelines but feel that you still need financial assistance in registering your child for a Community Music School program, please contact the CMS office at 901.678.4244. Financial aid awards are distributed on a first-come, first-served basis and are funded as long as there are available resources. The following rules apply: Financial aid awards are issued for tuition fees only, not for supplies or other costs. Any past due accounts must be brought current before a financial aid application is considered. Students or parents of students receiving financial aid will be expected to carry out certain duties for the school, such as assisting with performances, concert set-up, special events, etc. Application, income information and teacher letter of recommendation are required. The financial aid recipient is responsible for the remaining tuition balance. Submittal of an application is neither a confirmation into the class nor a confirmation of a financial aid award. Applicants for long-term programs will be reviewed each semester. Regular attendance and practice will be taken into consideration for award renewal; instructor or program director report may be required. A new copy of proof of income and application are required yearly. CMS allows only one discount per student per semester. If you qualify for financial aid, you will not be eligible for any other discounts (i.e. UofM, senior citizen). Applicants who falsify information or do not attend class regularly may be ineligible for future financial aid. All financial aid applications are kept confidential. The Community Music School does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, nationality, gender, ethnic origin, or religious belief in admission, retention, student aid, scholarship, and other educational policies. Notification of financial aid awards will be made in writing. Download: Financial Aid Application Application Instructions Eligibility Chart The University of Memphis is an equal opportunity/affirmative action university committed to the education of a non-racially-identifiable student body. How to register for OUR programs Three ways to register: 1. Online (credit card) Please visit: 2. Mail your registration form along with your payment to: Community Music School 935 West Park Loop, Building 2 Memphis, TN 38152-3160 Make check payable to: The University of Memphis 3. In person at the CMS office: 935 West Park Loop, Building 2 REGISTRATION FEE A registration fee of $25 per student per semester is required at the time of registration. Registration fees are non-refundable. TUITION You may choose to pay your tuition in one, two, three or four payments. If you select the two, three or four payment options, you will be charged a $5 processing fee per payment, per student. Payment must be received by due dates to avoid $15 late fee (per student). Two, three and four payment options do not apply to totals of less than $100 per semester. Payment Plan I - One payment in full due with registration Payment Plan II - Two payments (in equal installments). If you choose this payment plan, please add a $10 ($5 per payment) processing fee per student. First payment - Due with registration Second payment - Due by 9/11/15 Payment Plan III - Three payments (in equal installments). If you choose this payment plan, please add a $15 ($5 per payment) processing fee per student. First payment - Due with registration Second payment - Due by 9/11/15 Third payment - Due by 10/9/15 Payment Plan IV - Four payments (in equal installments). If you choose this payment plan, please add a $20 ($5 per payment) processing fee per student. First payment - Due with registration Second payment - Due by 9/11/15 Third payment - Due by 10/9/15 Fourth payment – Due by 11/13/15 RETURN CHECK SERVICE CHARGE A Return Check Service Charge of $30 will be applied to each check/draft or credit card returned unpaid by your financial institution. This fee will also be assessed if a keying error on your part results in your financial institution's failure to honor the draft. PHOTO/VIDEO RELEASE Students are occasionally photographed or video recorded during CMS activities. These photos or videos may be used to advertise or promote the CMS program. By enrolling in the CMS program, you agree to this policy. However, if you do not want your child's photographs or videos to be used for CMS publications, please submit a written notice of this upon registration. TUITION ASSISTANCE &amp; DISCOUNTS Tuition Assistance: CMS has a limited number of financial aid awards available to assist families in need. Financial aid awards are partial (10-30% off of tuition) and eligibility is determined by gross household income and number of household members. Financial aid awards are distributed on a first-come, first-served basis and are funded as long as there are available resources. Financial aid information is available on our website ( For more information, please call the CMS office at 901.678.4244. - Senior Citizens (60+) Discount: 10% - U of M Employee/Dependent Discount: 5% - Lesson/Group Combo Package Discount: $100 off if enrolled in private and group instruction (excluding Suzuki Group Classes and Play For Fun Crash Course). Senior discount, U of M discount and financial aid awards apply to tuition only and are limited to one discount per student. Other fees such as: registration fee, parking permit, accompaniment fee, CMS tote bag/t-shirt, two, three and four payment plan fee, and late fee must be paid in full. REFERRAL CREDIT When a currently enrolled CMS student refers a friend, and he/she enrolls, both the referring student and the newly enrolled student will receive a $25 credit. This credit can be applied towards tuition or any other fees. The more friends a CMS student refers, the more credits they can receive. Note: One referral credit per newly enrolled family. Referred families must be new to the CMS program (never enrolled before). For more information, please call the CMS office at 901.678.4244 ATTENDANCE/MAKE-UP POLICY Students are expected to attend each class and/or lesson. Lessons will not be made up if cancelled by a student nor will there be an adjustment made to tuition. Lessons will be made up if cancelled by the teacher. WITHDRAWALS If a student withdraws prior to the beginning of the semester, a refund of tuition, less $30, will be made. No refunds, partial or full, will be made after the official start of the semester. A full refund will be made if a group class is cancelled due to insufficient enrollment. Students that have chosen the payment plan option (two, three or four payment plan) are obligated to pay the full tuition cost if the student withdraws after the official start of the semester. INCLEMENT WEATHER The Community Music School follows the University of Memphis schedule for inclement weather. Lessons missed due to inclement weather will be made up only if the University cancels classes. Call the UM hotline at 678-0888 for closing verification. BUILDING USE Due to insurance issues, all CMS students must be taught at the University or an approved satellite location. Teachers may not teach CMS students in their homes or any other non-approved locations. PARKING All vehicles parked in General Parking on the U of M Campus (including Park Avenue Campus) before 7:00 pm must display a parking hangtag. Hangtags may be purchased at the time of registration for $30 and will be mailed. You may also park in the Innovation Drive Garage for $2/hr. If you have any questions about parking, please call 901.678.4244. Students taking lessons at Lane Music and Circle Music Center do not need parking permits. NO CLASSES Labor Day Sep 7 Thanksgiving Break Nov 24-29 CMS Calendar For Fall 2015 Special Events Don't miss this! Contact Us Let us hear from you Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .