#http://www.memphis.edu/msci/people/mwierdl.php
Máté Wierdl - Math Sciences - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Mathematical Sciences About People Undergraduate Graduate Research News People Research Faculty Instructors Visitors &amp; Postdocs Graduate Students Staff A-Z List Home Math Sciences People Máté Wierdl Máté Wierdl Professor Email mwierdl@memphis.edu Office Dunn Hall 369 Curriculum Vitae Research Interests Ergodic theory, almost everywhere convergence, number theory, foundations of thermodynamics How do you pronounce my name? Ma-tay Veer-dl. (Long "a" in the "Ma", like in "March".) What am I doing presently? I am organizing a major conference in Norway together with two colleagues, one is from Norway and the other colleague is from Russia but is working in England. The vast majority of the speakers are from Europe and Israel, But there will be some Americans as well such as Terry Tao (well, at least he is US based). Generous funds from NSF will enable us to support the participation of a good number of junior US mathematicians. The webpage for the conference is . How do I work? While I have lots of unsolved problems, I prefer to pick a difficult problem, and work on it for years, if necessary. I have quite a few collaborators, and many of them are in foreign countries. In fact, ergodic theory is most popular in France, Israel and Russia. Save public education Please help save public education. Resist corporate influence on our and your campus: taxpayers (your) money goes into private hands with no public oversight, with no input from profs. Public education was hard fought for by your great-great grandparents. Don't let corporations turn back the wheels of time claiming this is the 21st century way. Completely false . The American college system became the envy of the World when it was taken out of corporate control 150 years ago . If you are a student and you are willing to help, please contact me by email. Research Description The ergodic theorem in its simplest form can be described as follows. Take a cup of water, and suppose you'd like to figure out the average speed of the water molecules. What you would have to do is measure the speed of each molecule, and then take the average of the measurements. This average, taken over all molecules in the cup, is called the space average . The ergodic theorem says, that instead of calculating the space average, we could calculate the average speed of any single molecule. More precisely, pick any molecule, measure its speed at 1 second, 2 seconds, ... N seconds, and then calculate the average of these N measurements. If you take the measurements longer and longer, so N gets larger and larger, these averages we can call time averages get closer and closer to the space average. The "real" ergodic theorem is much more general: it applies to any measurements made on any physical system, as modeled in phase space, and it says that the time averages get closer and closer to the space average. This unexpected theorem has two serious drawbacks when it comes to trying to apply it to practical situations. One, it doesn't tell you how long you have to take the time averages, and two, it doesn't tell you what happens with the time averages if instead taking the measurements at exactly 1s, 2s, ..., etc., you take them at more realistic times, such as random times . One of my main research projects is to address the two problems above. Quite pleasingly, these two basic problems with the ergodic theorem led me to questions that reside in several other branches of mathematics, such as fourier analysis, probability and number theory. Foundations of thermodynamics, thermokinetics With my old Hungarian friend, Károly Oláh, we try to clarify and popularize his beautiful and fundamentally simple theory, called thermokinetics, that puts thermodynamics on entirely new foundations: finally those steam engines and other old fashioned items are replaced by differential equations — thermodynamics finally looks like a modern science. The main idea of the description of thermodynamic systems can be easily understood — yet again by taking a cup of water. The classical theory presents an equation that describes how the water evaporates over time from the cup. Thermokinetics, on the other hand, recognizes that what we call evaporation is, in fact, the net result of two processes which we can call absolute evaporation and absolute condensation . Absolute evaporation is caused by those molecules that leave the surface of the water, and absolute condensation is caused by those molecules that enter the cup of water from the air. These two absolute processes are dramatically faster than their net process: if you eliminated the possibility of molecules to enter the water, ie. the absolute condensation, the water would disappear from the cup in a matter of few minutes even at room temperature. The thermokinetics description of thermodynamics via two dual processes is similar to how trade is described between two countries. The trade balance between two countries — say, the US and China — is the difference between export and import. In economics, nobody would just talk about the trade balance alone: export and import are studied separately. The classical (macroscopic) thermodynamic theories, on the other hand, correspond, in scope, to describing only the trade balance, and ignoring the fact that it's the difference between two massive "processes", export and import. People Research Faculty Instructors Visitors &amp; Postdocs Graduate Students Staff A-Z List Contact Us How to contact us, and whom to contact about what. Student FAQ Student resources for advising, tutoring, and registering for classes. ALEKS Information on the ALEKS computerized placement test. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .