#http://www.memphis.edu/presweb/leadership/bov.php
Board of Visitors - Office of the President - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Office of the President About Mission and Plan Communications Leadership Contact Leadership Team President's Council Key Administrators Board of Visitors Alumni Association Board of Directors President's Staff Related Offices Home Office of the President University Leadership Team Board of Visitors Board of Visitors In 1989, a group of prominent Memphis business and community leaders, led by Robert Fogelman, formed a board to guide the president of The University of Memphis in attaining excellence and national recognition for the University. This group, known as the Board of Visitors (BOV), was the first of its kind in the state. They were charged with raising the University's national stature and enhancing the school's relationship with the local community. Among its activities, the BOV works to enhance the image of the University and was supportive of the successful name change to the University of Memphis in 1994. It also was actively involved in the selection of the last two presidents. In addition, the BOV sponsors the Eminent Faculty Award that encourages excellence in research, teaching and outreach. This prestigious award, that comes with a $20,000 stipend completely funded by the BOV, was renamed in 2006 as the Willard R. Sparks Eminent Faculty Award after former Chairman Willard Sparks. In 1999 the board was restructured and began assisting the University in the areas of programs, fundraising and strategic planning. The full board meets approximately four times each year in addition to its task force meetings. BOV OFFICERS Chairman Mr. Tom Kadien Vice Chair Mr. Ben Bryant, Jr. Treasurer Mr. George Johnson Secretary Ms. Rita Sparks BOV MEMBERS Mr. Michael Bruns Bruns Holdings, Owner Mr. Benjamin C. Bryant, Jr. University of Memphis FedEx Institute of Technology Executive in Residence Mr. Pace D. Cooper Cooper Hotels President and CEO Mr. Hilliard R. Crews, Jr. Shelby Group International Inc. Chairman Mr. Doug Edwards Edwin M. Jones Oil Company President Mr. Willie H. Gregory, Sr. Nike Inc. Director Global Community Impact Ms. Helen S. Gronauer Shelby Ventures LLC Ms. Carolyn C. Hardy Chism Hardy Investments LLC President/CEO Mr. Donald Hutson U.S. Learning Chairman/CEO Ms. Karen Fields Isaacman Armstrong Relocation Co-Chairman Mr. Larry Jensen Cushman &amp; Wakefield/Commercial Advisors President &amp; CEO Mr. George T. Johnson BJB Administrative Services LLC President Ms. Elise Jordan FedEx Express Sr. Vice President &amp; Chief Financial Officer Mr. Thomas G. Kadien International Paper Senior Vice President of Human Resources, Communications, and Government Affairs Mr. Michael Kisber FTN Financial President Mr. James D. Lackie Rhyton Capital Management LLC CEO Mr. James E. McGehee, Jr. McGehee Realty and Development Co. Chairman Mr. Dave North Sedgwick Claims President Mr. David C. Perdue DS Partners, CEO Mr. John Reid Russel Metal Corporation Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Mr. Stephen C. Reynolds Baptist Memorial Health Care Corporation President and CEO Emeritus Dr. Trish Calvert Ring Consulting Psychologist Mr. Gary S. Shorb Methodist LeBonheur Healthcare President and CEO Mr. Harry L. Smith HNB Partners Mr. Stefan M. Smith Lexus of Memphis Owner, President and COO Ms. Rita Sparks Mr. Richard A. Spell Raymond James and Associates Managing Director Ms. Susan Springfield First Horizon Bank Executive Vice President &amp; Chief Credit Officer Mr. Mitchell D. Spurlock Power Transport and Power Freight, Founder and Chairman Aqua Chempac, Founder and Chairman Magnolia Paper, President Mr. John W. Stokes, Jr. Raymond James and Associates Vice President Ms. Laurie A. Tucker Calade Partners LLC Co-Founder/Chief Strategy Officere Mr. James L. Vining Vining Sparks IBG Chairman Emeritus Mr. J. Thomas Watson Armstrong Relocation Co-Chairman Mr. David Wedaman Re Trans Inc. President Mr. C. Kemmons Wilson, Jr. Kemmons Wilson Companies Principal BOV BY VIRTUE OF POSITION Mr. Kim Barnett Tennessee Board of Regents Mr. Charles G. Burkett UofM Consultant First Tennessee Bank President Emeritus Mr. Gregory M. Duckett Tennessee Board of Regents Dr. Barbara U. Prescott Tennessee Board of Regents Ms. Rebecca Reeves Tennessee Board of Regents Dr. M. David Rudd University of Memphis President Ms. Leigh A. Shockey Tennessee Board of Regents Mr. David G. Zettergren University of Memphis VP for Business and Finance HONORARY VISITORS Mr. Robert F. Fogelman Fogelman Investment Company Former President The Honorable Mark H. Luttrell Shelby County Government Mayor The Honorable AC Wharton, Jr. Memphis City Government Mayor LIFE VISITOR Dr. Thomas G. Carpenter University President, Emeritus Mr. Frank L. Flautt, Jr. Flautt Inc., President Leadership Team President's Council Key Administrators Board of Visitors Alumni Association Board of Directors President's Staff Related Offices Dashboard UofM steps towards success Year of Service Initiative Learn how your service hours can provide scholarships for students! President's Blog News, stories, videos and more Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .