#https://umdrive.memphis.edu/g-training/UMdrive/Managing_FilesFolders_UMdrive.pdf
Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 1 of 6 umDrive: Managing Files and Folders File Management There are two ways to access the file management options within um D rive: the Toolbar button and using right - click. Management options include features such as file summary information, sharing access to your files via the permissions option, and tagging files to assist in searching. Files using the Toolbar Button 1. Select a file by clicking on it once. It will become highlighted with a gray bar and a checkmark will be placed in the box to the left of its name. 2. In the toolbar, click the Manage button; a dropdown menu will display. Select a Manage option from the menu. Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 2 of 6 Files using Right - Click 1. Right - click on the file you would like to Manage. The fly - out menu will display. Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 3 of 6 2. Within the fly - out menu, place your cursor over Manage and you will see additional options appear; select an option from those new choices. Folder Management Folders can help you organize and more effectively manage your files. There are two ways to access the folder management options within um D rive; the Toolbar button and using right - click. Management options for folders are similar to files and include features such as folder summary information and sharing access to your folders via the permissions option. Creating a Folder 1. From the Home screen, click the New Folder button on the right side of the toolbar. The New Folder wizard will begin. Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 4 of 6 2. Type a name for the folder. You can click Next to set additional folder options, or Finish to create the folder and return to the Home screen. If you click Finish , the newly created folder will now be visible on your home screen. If you click Next , additional information about creating new folders using the wizard can be found in the New Folder Wizard guide. You will be able to share the folder with selected users/groups, determine the permissions for those users/groups, and email those people about their access. Folders using the Toolbar Button 1. Select a folder by clicking on it once. It will become highlighted with a gray bar and a checkmark will be placed in the box to the left of its name. UMdrive: Updated: 06/04/2014 Page 5 of 6 2. In the toolbar, click the Manage button; a dropdown menu will display. Select a Manage option from the menu. Folders using Right - Click 1. Right - click on the folder you would like to Manage. The fly - out menu will display. UMdrive: Updated: 06/04/2014 Page 5 of 6 Updated: 06/04/2014 Page 6 of 6 2. Within the fly - out menu, place your cursor over Manage and you will see additional options appear; select an option from those new choices.