#https://umdrive.memphis.edu/g-training/UMdrive/Uploading_Files_UMdrive.pdf
Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 1 of 5 um D rive: Uploading Files There are two modes of upload, Basic and Advanced . Basic upload allows you to browse one file at a time, until you have compiled a list of files to upload. Advanced upload allows you to drag - and - drop files or folders onto the Advanced upload screen. The upload mode can be easily switched at any time by clicking either the Basic Upload or Advanced Upload links on the Upload screen. Whichever mode you choose will be displayed the next time you upload files. NOTE : Advanced Upload mode requires version 1.5 or higher of the Java plugin available from . If you have the Java plugin installed but it is not version 1.5 or higher, you will experience problems when attempting to use the Advanced Mode. If you do not wish to download and install the Java plugin, use Basic Upload. Advanced Upload NOTE : If you want to upload an entire folder of files it is best to use the Advanced Upload option. You can drag and drop the entire folder all at once using the Advanced method rather than individual files as you have to in the Basic Upload. 1. Navigate to the folder to which you wish to upload files. Double click on it to open. 2. Click the Upload button. Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 2 of 5 3. If in basic mode, click on the Advanced Upload link. If you receive a message asking if you would like to Run, click Run . Remember, if nothing happens or you receive an error after clicking Advanced Upload you will need to click on the Java, version 5 or higher link first, before continuing on to Advanced Upload. 4. Once the Advanced Upload has loaded, you can either drag and drop files and folders onto the drag - n - drop area or you can click Browse and select files from your local machine. Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 3 of 5 5. Click Submit . You will see the files begin to upload and the status of each one. Once the files are uploaded you will be taken back to the folder and be able to view your newly uploaded files/folders. Basic Upload NOTE : If you want to upload an entire folder of files you it is best to use the Advanced Upload option. You drag and drop the entire folder all at once using the Advanced method rather than individual files as you have to in the Basic Upload. 1. Navigate to the folder to which you wish to upload files. Double click on it to open. Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 4 of 5 2. Click the Upload button. 3. If in advanced mode, click on the Basic Upload link. 4. Browse to the file you wish to upload. Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 5 of 5 5. If you wish to upload more files, click Add Files (A) and Browse (B) to the file. Repeat this step for as many files as you wish to upload. 6. Click Start Upload . Once the file(s) are uploaded you will be taken back to the folder and be able to view them within the folder. .