#http://www.memphis.edu/bursar/info/financial-aid.php
Financial Aid Disbursement Information - Bursar's Office - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Bursar's Office Staff Directory Fees Calendars Students Parents Campus Card Other Student Info eRefund Sign-up Financial Aid Disbursement Bookstore Advance Payment Plan Student Financial Appeals 1098-T Tax Information Ask TOM FAQs Home Bursar's Office Other Student Info Financial Aid Disbursement Information Financial Aid Disbursement Information Your financial aid award(s) must actually be completed and credited to your account (not estimated awards), and you must have a credit balance in your account after fees have been satisfied for the semester before receiving a refund of excess aid. See the Bursar's Office Calendar for disbursement dates. Refund by e-Refunds (Direct Deposit) Excess financial aid/scholarships for Spring 2016 will be direct deposited to your bank account beginning January 15, 2016 (Law School - January 12, 2016) and daily thereafter through the end of the semester for financial aid/scholarship awards that are disbursed after the initial eRefund noted above. It is important that you sign up for eRefund on TigerXpress by January 11, 2016 (Law School - January 6, 2016). If you receive financial aid/scholarship award amounts in excess of fees, you need to sign up online on TigerXpress to have your refund deposited directly to your bank account. Note that direct deposit authorization submitted to the Payroll Office is separate from direct deposit authorization for financial aid/scholarship disbursement. Refund by Check If you do NOT sign up for eRefund, check refunds will be mailed beginning January 22, 2016 (Law School - January 15, 2016), and every Friday thereafter through the end of the semester for financial aid/scholarship awards that are disbursed after the initial mailing noted above. Download the Fall 2015 Refund by Check Schedule Download the Spring 2016 Refund by Check Schedule NOTE: For students who do not receive their refund checks in a timely manner, a stop payment (initiated through the Bursar's Office) cannot be processed until 2 weeks from the mail date of the check. The stop payment, re-issuance, and mailing of the replacement check takes approximately 10 days. It is recommended that you sign up for direct deposit to avoid this possible 3-4 week delay. eRefunds are the fastest way to receive your excess financial aid/scholarship funds! Financial Aid Disbursement Information for Students with Outstanding Debt Federal regulations require authorization from the student to use Title IV funds (i.e. federal financial aid) to pay prior term charges and current non-educational charges (e.g. parking tickets, library fines, etc.) within the same award year as the Title IV funds. Without your authorization, your federal aid will pay only current tuition, fees, Dining Dollars and dorm room charges. Federal regulations prohibit using current Title IV funds to pay any prior award/academic year outstanding charges. Your account will remain on hold until you pay all past due charges owed to The University of Memphis. Access and complete the Title IV Authorization Form online and submit to the Financial Aid Office, 103 Wilder Tower. Failure to do so will require payment in full of any outstanding charges and may result in a delay of processing financial aid excess refunds and/or deletion of classes. In addition to the Title IV Authorization Form, a repayment agreement may be required to be completed with the Bursar's Office. If above conditions are satisfied and/or if receiving non Title IV funds to pay outstanding charges, registration holds will be released beginning August 1 for Fall terms, December 1 for Spring terms, and May 1 for Summer terms. Grades/Transcript holds will not be released until account balance is paid in full. State Law prohibits the release of a registration hold for any student who owes debt to the University. NOTE: First Time Borrowers must have completed an entrance interview and master promissory note in order for your funds to be disbursed to your student account and any excess to be refunded to you. For additional information, please contact the Financial Aid Office . Other Student Info eRefund Sign-up Financial Aid Disbursement Bookstore Advance Payment Plan Student Financial Appeals 1098-T Tax Information Ask TOM FAQs TigerXpress View your statements and pay fees online in TigerXpress. Tuition Estimator How much will your courses cost? Get an estimate online! Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the U of M Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/11/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .