#https://umdrive.memphis.edu/g-training/UMdrive/FileSharing_Permissions_Tickets_UMdrive.pdf
Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 1 of 12 umDrive: File Sharing, Permissions, & Tickets Sharing Files and Folders um D rive allows you to share your files and folders with other users. Sharing makes it possible for multiple users to have different levels of access to your files without requiring you to maintain multiple copies of the files. Within um D rive, there is a column labeled Shared With . This column identifies the following: None : Only you can see this file or folder. Some : Other users can view or manage this file or folder, but not all users. Everyone : The public or all users with an account on um D rive can view or manage this file or folder. File Sharing Wizard The Sharing Wizard can help guide you through the process of adding permissions to a file or folder. You may follow each step of this wizard, skip through to the desired step or end the wizard at any time. 1. Navigate to the file or folder you wish to share. Place a check in the box next to its name. Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 2 of 12 2. Right - click the selected file or folder > select the Share option from the fly out menu. You are now in the Sharing Wizard screen. Choose Users 3. Choose users with whom you would like to share the file or folder. Enter the names of people you wish to share the file/folder in the user information box (A). Select their name from the popup listing that appears. Be patient as it may take a few seconds for the list to appear. I f you are unsure of the official name or are getting no results in the popup listing , another option is to the Search for Users button (B). All users and/or groups you have selected will appear in the box (A). Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 3 of 12 4. Click Next . Assign Permissions 5. Select your preferred sharing option: Viewer : These users have read - only access to your file or folder. Viewers cannot modify the properties or content of files and folders. Contributor : Users can modify the file and add content to a folder. Contributors have read, write, and delete access on a file. Full Access : Full Access users can modify files and add content to folders. 6. Click Next . Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 4 of 12 Send Email 7. Click Finish at the bottom of the screen. This will send an email to the shared users with instructions how to access the files, including how to create a bookmark. NOTE : If you do not want to send an email be sure to uncheck the box next to Send the below email, then click Finish. Modifying Existing Permissions 1. Navigate to the file or folder you wish to modify permissions. Place a check in the box next to its name. Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 5 of 12 2. Right - click on the file or folder name and select Manage (A) from the fly out menu, then Permissions (B). An alternative way to access the Permissions screen is to click the Manage button (A) in the Menu bar and select Permissions (B). Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 6 of 12 To add a user/group: 1. Select the Add User/Group button in the right corner. The Sharing Wizard will begin and walk you through the process. 2. Once you are done adding permissions, click Exit in the bottom right corner. Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 7 of 12 To change a user/ grou per missio ns : 1. Place a check in the box next to the user or group name (A), then select the radio button for the new permission level (B). 2. Click Apply (C). 3. A confirmation screen with your changes will appear. Click OK . 4. Click Exit in the bottom right corner. Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 8 of 12 To remove all permissions for the user/group : NOTE : If you remove all permissions a user or group will not be able to access the file or folder in any capacity. 1. Place a check in the box next to the user or group name (A). 2. Click the Remove Access button (B). 3. A Confirmation screen will appear. Click OK . 4. Click Exit in the bottom right corner. Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 9 of 12 Tickets Tickets allow both non - UofM and UofM users access to your files and folders . By using the ticket functionality, you may allow specific access to your folders, their sub - folders, and the files within. A folder ticket can be thought of as a direct online link to a folder. The person with whom you'd like to grant access to the file or folder will receive an e - mail with the online link. When the link is clicked, the user is taken to the um D rive interface and the folder's file and sub - folder listing displays just as you would see it in its regular folder listing screen. When granting access to files and folders through tickets, you must define the type of access or permissions the user(s) should receive. In addition to setting access/permissions for your ticket, you may also password protect the contents. When the user receives the ticket link via e - mail, they will be prompted for a password when attempting to access the link. If a user is granted Read and Write permission for a ticket, however they are not provided the password then they will not be able to access the contents of the ticket. Creating a Ticket 1. Navigate to the file or folder you wish to manage tickets. Place a check in the box next to its name. 2. Right - click on the file or folder name and select Manage (A) from the fly out menu, then Tickets (B). Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 10 of 12 An alternative way to access the Tickets screen is to click the Manage button (A) in the Menu bar and select Tickets (B). 3. Click the New Ticket button. Updated: 10 /10 /2014 Page 11 of 12 4. A new window will appear with default ticket values. You will need to address the following fields as they apply to your file/folder for this ticket: Name : It is suggested to leave this at the default value. Define Permissions : Select the level of access you would like for people associated with this ticket. Lifetime : The duration of this ticket. Password Enable this Ticket : Place a check in the box if you would like to password protect the ticket. This is not required but does give an extra level of security. Ticket Password and Confirm Password : These two fields are required if you decide to Click OK . You will be taken back to the Tickets list. Emailing Tickets 1. From the Tickets screen, place a check in the box next to the ticket and click the Email button. Updated: 10 /10 /2014 Page 12 of 12 2. In the To field enter the names of people you wish to email the ticket information. Select their name from the popup listing that appears as you type. Be patient as it may take a few seconds for the list to appear. Another option, if you are unsure of the official na me or are getting no results in the popup listing, is to click the To button and use the search feature. All users and/or groups you have selected will appear in the To field. 3. Click Send . Note about Password Protection and Tickets: If you password protected a ticket and emailed that link, you must separately provide your e - mail recipients the correct password. The password will not be sent within the email.