#https://umdrive.memphis.edu/g-training/UMdrive/Bookmarks_UMdrive.pdf
Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 1 of 5 umDrive: Bookmarks What are Bookmarks? Bookmarks are shortcuts to folders within your u mDrive account. Using Bookmarks, you can conveniently create shortcuts to your most frequently accessed folders and files. You can also create shortcuts to other users' folders and files you have been allowed to access. Where can I access my Bookmarks? Navigate to your bookmarks at any time by clicking the Bookmarks link in the upper left corner of the home screen. After clicking Bookmarks , a drop - down menu with your current bookmarks and an option to Manage them will be displayed. Bookmarks Bookmark a File or Folder There are two ways to create a bookmark: Right - click and from Manage Bookmarks . Right - click is recommended and is a new way available with the latest upgrade. Right - click Option 1. Navigate to the file or folder you wish to bookmark. 2. Right - Click the selected file or folder. Select the Bookmark option. Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 2 of 5 3. The New Bookmark window will appear. In this window: Bookmark Name : This will be populated with the file name but you may provide a different one. Bookmark Location : Click the arrow to expand the field and select the location. This is the bookmark folder which is to be used. Bookmark menu is the location provided by default. Select this location if you created any other folders. Bookmarked File/Folder : This field is pre - populated based on the file or folder which has been selected. It is recommended to leave it at the default value. Click OK . Manage Bookmarks Option 4. Click Bookmarks in the upper left corner of your screen, then Manage Bookmarks . Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 3 of 5 5. Click the New Bookmark button. 6. Fill in the Name , Location , and File/Folder name and click OK . NOTE : If you are adding a bookmark that points to a file or folder owned by another user, you must have access to that file or folder in order to bookmark it. Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 4 of 5 Working with Bookmark Folders What is the difference between a bookmarked folder and a bookmark folder? A bookmarked folder is a resource you have created a shortcut to or bookmarked. This resource will appear in your list of Bookmarks. A bookmark folder is the name of a folder which contains a list of bookmarks you have created and stored in the specific folder. Creating a Bookmark Folder 1. On the Home screen, click the Bookmarks link in the upper left corner. 2. Select the Manage Bookmarks option; the Manage Bookmarks screen will appear. 3. Click the New Bookmark Folder button. Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 5 of 5 4. Provide a Name for the bookmark folder (A). Provide a Bookmark Location , or click the expand icon to select the location (B). This is where the new bookmark folder will reside. Click the Ok button. Managing Bookmark Folders To Edit, Delete, or Move a Folder: Click on the title of the folder once; a checkmark will appear in the box next to its name. Depending on the function you would like to perform, the Delete , Edit and Move buttons will be available above the folders on the left side. NOTE : When deleting a bookmark folder, all bookmarks contained within that folder shall also be deleted and cannot be undeleted.