#https://umdrive.memphis.edu/g-training/UMdrive/NewFolderWizard_UMdrive.pdf
Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 1 of 4 um D rive: New Folder Wizard The New Folder Wizard guides you through creating, sharing, configuring, and emailing your new folder. You may follow each step of this wizard, skip through to the desired step or end the wizard at any time. 1. From the Home screen or within another folder, click the New Folder button. The wizard will open. Displayed across the top of each wizard page is a progression line so you can see where you are in the creation of the folder. Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 2 of 4 2. Enter a Name for the folder in the Folder Name field. If you do not need to share the folder with other users, click Finish If you would like to set up permissions in order to share the folder with others, click Next . 3. Choose users with whom you would like to share the file or folder. Enter the names of people you wish to share the file/folder in the user information box (A). Select their name from the popup listing that appears. Be patient as it may take a few seconds for the list to appear. If you are unsure of the official name or are getting no results in the popup listing, another option is to the Search for Users button (B). All users and/or groups you have selected will appear in the box (A). Click Next . Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 3 of 4 4. On the Verify Permissions screen, be sure to review the permissions set for each user or group you have added. Each one can have a role with a different level of access for the folder. Additional information about Permissions can be found in the File Sharing, Permissions, & Tickets guide. Click Next . 5. On the Configure screen you can select your preferred options or leave settings at their default. More information about versioning, logging, and subscriptions can be found at: What is versioning for um D rive files and folders? What is logging for um D rive files and folders? What are subscriptions in um D rive? Click Next . Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 4 of 4 6. On the Send Email screen, click Finish at the bottom of the screen. This will send an email to the shared users with instructions how to access the folder, including how to create a bookmark. NOTE : If you do not want to send an email be sure to uncheck the box next to Send the below email, then click Finish. Your folder has now been created and you will be taken back to your document/folder directory.