#http://www.memphis.edu/shs/programs/exss.php
Exercise and Sport Science - SHS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Health Studies About Programs Students Faculty Research Centers News Contact SHS Programs Undergraduate Dietetics Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Healthcare Leadership Physical Education Teacher Education Graduate Clinical Nutrition Environmental Nutrition Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Nutrition Science Physical Education Teacher Education Sport Commerce Home SHS Programs Exercise and Sport Science Exercise and Sport Science Introduction The concentration in Exercise and Sport Science provides a comprehensive exposure to the field of exercise science, with coursework in areas such as kinesiology, physiology, biomechanics, motor behavior, and exercise programming. Graduate study is complemented by coursework in research design, scientific writing, and statistical analysis. Both undergraduate and graduate students have internship opportunities (required for undergraduate students; optional for graduate students), in addition to the opportunity to work as a research assistant within faculty-directed laboratories. Upon graduation, students wishing to pursue more advanced training in exercise science or related areas (e.g., physical therapy, medicine, nutritional science) can do so. Students are well-prepared to seek certifications offered by professional organizations such as the American College of Sports Medicine and the National Strength and Conditioning Association. Major Health and Human Performance Concentration: Exercise and Sport Science Degree: BSEd Health and Sport Science Concentration: Exercise and Sport Science Degree: MS The undergraduate and graduate programs in EXSS are endorsed by the National Strength and Conditioning Association. Careers Students graduating with a BSEd or MS degree are well-prepared to attend graduate school within the following areas*: Physical Therapy Occupational Therapy Medicine (Medical Doctor, Physician Assistant) Exercise Science and associated disciplines (MS or PhD level) Bioenergetics Biomechanics Exercise Physiology Nutrition Science Strength and Conditioning Etc. *Note: Students should seek the guidance of the Academic Services Coordinator, the pre-health professional advisor, faculty mentors, and/or the school of interest with regards to needed pre-requisite courses for graduate school admission. Students are also well-prepared to begin employment within the following areas: Health/Medical Research (MS degree typically required) Clinical Exercise Physiologist (MS degree typically required) Corporate Wellness Health Club Facility Management Personal Training Group Fitness Instruction Fitness and Wellness Coaching Strength and Conditioning Coaching Student Testimonials "Throughout my graduate studies within the School of Health Studies, I was provided an education that is second to none. I learned the skills required to reach my academic goals as well as the skills needed succeed in the field as an educator and researcher. As a current doctoral student in Kinesiology, it is clear that my education within HSS fully prepared me to face the demands of PhD studies and beyond. Without question, much of the success I have had, as well as my potential for future success, is a credit to my graduate education in the School of Health Studies." John R. Harry MS, CSCS, 2014 “The knowledge I acquired throughout my graduate career with the School of Health Studies is invaluable. I had the opportunity to experience vast academic growth in the classroom, author/co-author several research publications, work daily in multiple labs, and achieve my ultimate goal of gaining admittance into medical school. I am forever grateful to the faculty of this department for truly inspiring me to reach my full potential and aiding in my future success as a physician.” Trint A. Gunnels MS, 2014 “I have gained much valuable research experience in the School of Health Studies under the guidance of many distinguished mentors. The knowledge I have gained allowed me to be a step ahead of my peers in medical school and there is no doubt that I will be a better physician someday as a result of my experiences.” Moe Kabir MS, 2012 "The graduate program in the School of Health Studies helped prepare me for a career in biomedical research. Through the program I was further educated in an applied science while also taking courses in the basic sciences. The research focus of the program has equipped me with physical and analytical knowledge that will not only help in my career, but in life as well." Rick Alleman Jr . MS, 2012 "My time spent obtaining my MS degree within the Department of Health and Sport Science exceeded my expectations. I was surrounded by some of the most respected scientists within the exercise/sport science field, which allows for some great collaboration on different projects. The skills I acquired were beyond advantageous, for which propelled me into a doctoral program. I know my time spent within the Department of Health and Sport Science will only help me to excel within my doctoral studies, as well as any future endeavor I pursue." Tyler Farney MS, 2011 "Performing undergraduate research in the School of Health Studies was a great learning experience. The faculty and staff are helpful, knowledgeable, and inspiring. Being able to publish scientific papers and perform clinical science research gave me a competitive edge when applying for graduate school." Zach Bell BSEd, 2011 "Through the School of Health Studies, I was able to develop my skills in all facets of scientific research including subject recruitment and screening, data collection and statistical analysis, blood collection and processing, manuscript writing/poster preparation, exposure undertaking biochemical assays, and collaboration with other graduate students. Above all else though, I was mentored on the scientific process and how to undertake it in a research environment. These enabled me to progress onto a premier biomedical institution and research laboratory." Cam McCarthy MS, 2011 Human Performance Labs Within the School of Health Studies, a collection of faculty-directed laboratories is available devoted to the scientific study of human health, performance, and fitness. The laboratories and their respective directors are listed here . Numerous studies of varied foci are conducted each year within the laboratories. Faculty members within EXSS secure external funding to support their research and their work is published in both national and international peer-reviewed journals. For more detailed information, please see the individual laboratory websites Both undergraduate and graduate students have opportunities to participate in faculty-directed research, through their acting as a participant. Students also work within the various labs as volunteers, interns, or graduate research assistants SHS Programs Undergraduate Dietetics Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Healthcare Leadership Physical Education Teacher Education Graduate Clinical Nutrition Environmental Nutrition Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Nutrition Science Physical Education Teacher Education Sport Commerce Apply Submit your application today Undergraduate Advising We’re always here to help Graduate Advising Faculty advisors aid in your success Degree Sheets Review the courses you’ll be taking Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/5/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .