#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/econ/2015FECON2020004.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus E CON - 202 0 - Sectio - 004 Principles of Macroeconomics Fall 2015 3 Credit Hours Instructor: Dr. Rejeana M. Gvillo E - mail: Rgvillo@memphis.edu Classroom: Fogelman Classroom Building 12 7 , TR 5:30 - 6:55 Website: - management website, ecourseware, to stay in contact with you and to report your grades. The syllabus can also be found at this website. Office Hours: Tuesdays and Thursday , immediately after class Course Overview Econ 2020 is an introductory course in Microeconomic Theory. Throughout the course, we will analyze changes in the behavior of individuals and firms in response to changes in the constraints they face. The course covers the fundamental microeconomic concepts and analysis relating to opportunity cost, demand and supply analysis, externalities, elasticities, theories of the firm and individual behavior, competition and monopolies. This course will stress on the applications of elementary economic theory to r eal world issues and problems. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: There are no prerequisite courses per se. However, we will be using basic tools of graphs and a very little bit of algebra. To make sure you are comfortable with them I will be giving an extra credit homework assignment based on the Appendix to Chapter 1 of the text. Required Texts (and Related M aterials ): Hubbard, R Cour se Objectives : 1. The student should be able to define scarcity, opportunity costs, demonstrate how they affect economic decisions, and identify those costs in a given economic decision. 2. The student should be able to explain and apply marginal benefits and marginal costs to determine optimal economic decisions for both consumers and firms, and relate them to the Benefit - Cost Principle. 3. The student should be able to explain how markets allocate scarce resources via the interaction of supply an d demand; how supply and demand are represented by supply curves and demand curves, respectively; and what factors cause supply or demand to change. 4. The student should be to explain how the interaction of supply and demand can create shortages and surpl uses, and how this can cause price and quantity to change. 5. The student should be able to describe effects of government policies like taxes, subsidies, and/or price controls on prices and output, and define deadweight loss in this context. 6. The studen t should be able to define elasticity for different variables in the demand or supply function (e.g. own, cross, income, etc.), and should be able to describe the effect of a given elasticity on economic outcomes (e.g., revenues, tax burden, policy choices , etc.). 7. The student should be able to discuss how marginal cost helps determine the overall level of output produced within a market, and how much each individual firm produces. Using variable cost, fixed cost, and total costs, the student should be ab le to discuss other aspects of production, such as the level of economic profit, the decision to shut down or stay in business, and how these costs vary in the short run and long run. 8. The student should be able to identify how competition affects market outcomes, such as economic profit, the level of output, and price mark - ups, and how different types of markets have different such outcomes based on their level of competition. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree These are the AACSB lear ning outcomes for the BBA: Course Methodology The course will be taught on - site Grading and Evaluation Criteria In - Class Quizzes: There will be in - class quizzes. The quiz in which your score is the lowest will be dropped. There will be NO makeup opportunities for any of the quizzes. In case you miss more than one quiz with a University approved excuse, you will receive your averag e quiz score for the missed quizzes. This is dependent upon your showing me a University approved excuse at the next class period. Exams: Two midterm exams and one final comprehensive exam will be given during the semester. If you miss any exam, you m makeup exams will be given unless you have missed an exam for University - approved reasons such as an emergency visit to a doctor, a University - sponsored trip, athletic events or conferences. You must provide the supporting documents before rescheduling the exam. Grade Weights Midterms (2) 50% (25% each) Final (Comprehensive) 25% Quizzes 25% Final Course Grades 95 100 A+ 73 75 C+ 90 94 A 70 72 C 85 89 A - 67 69 C - 82 84 B+ 64 66 D+ 79 81 B 60 63 D 76 78 B - < 60 F Course Topics See S chedule of Activi ti es Schedule of Activities Week Date Topics Chapters Quiz/Exam 1 Aug. 25, 27 Introduction, Supply & Demand 1, 3 2 Sept. 1, 3 Elasticity 6 3 Sept. 8, 10 Consumer Choice 10 4 Sept. 15, 17 Economic Efficiency 4 5 Sept. 22, 24 Exam I Week (Review, Exam I) Exam I 6 Sept. 29, Oct. 1 Trade - Offs 2 7 Oct. 6, 8 Externalities 5 8 Oct. 13, 15 Fall Break, Technology 11 9 Oct. 20, 22 Technology 11 10 Oct. 27, 29 Exam II Week (Review, Exam II) 11 Nov. 3, 5 Perfect Competition, Monopolistic 12 12 Nov. 10, 12 Monopolistic Competition 13 13 Nov. 17, 19 Oligopolies 14 14 Nov. 24, 26 Monopolies, Thanksgiving 15 15 Dec. 1, 3 Review, Study Day 16 Dec. 10 Final Exam Final Exam Schedule The final exam for this class will be scheduled according to the academic calendar website . It is scheduled for December 10 , from 5:30 7:30. Course Policies E - MAIL: Please email me at my Memphis.edu email via your Memphis.edu email. Communicating through eCourseware is not recommended. Attendance : Attendance will be taken periodically but will not directly factor into your grade. Regularly attending class is important and will ultimately affect your final grade. If you miss a class, you are responsible for the material you have missed. Adding/Dr opping : The drop date for the fall semester is October 16. Academic Integrity: Expectations for academic integrity and student conduct are described in detail on the website of the Office of Student Judicial and Ethical Affairs ( ) . Please take a look, in aware of these guidelines and to conduct themselves accordingly. Any incidents of academic for the course. Participation: Students are encouraged to participate i n classroom activities. Classroom or Online Behavior: [Y our expectations relating to Classroom Behavior .] Late Assignments: There will be no make - up exams or quizzes without a University approved excused absence. Please contact me prior to the absence, during, or upon your first day return to schedule the make - up. Inclement Weather: In the event of a University closure or an unplanned absence, you should check your University student email account for instructions from me. If a class is cancelled for any reason, the material or exams that would have been covered or given will be covered or given on the day we resume class. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance