#http://www.memphis.edu/nso/information/nso_faqs_spring.php
Frequently Asked Questions - New Student Orientation - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. New Student Orientation Orientation Information Meet Your Guides Contact Us FAQ NSO Information Spring 2016 Orientation Register for Orientation Prepare for Orientation Explore Your Options Home New Student Orientation NSO Information Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions What’s New Student Orientation all about? Am I required to attend Orientation? What should I bring to Orientation? How do I register for classes? Will I have my Student ID made at Orientation? Do I have to attend the entire program? Should my parents come with me? If I plan to live on campus in the spring, can I move in at Orientation? What’s New Student Orientation all about? New Student Orientation is a college experience guaranteed to help you get off to a good start at the UofM. At Orientation, you will: Meet other students, faculty, and staff Discover activities and services Learn more about the Financial Aid process Have your student ID made Tour the campus Am I required to attend Orientation? No. Attendance is not mandatory for incoming Spring students. However, it is strongly encouraged for you to sign up to learn more about the resources available to you as a student. What should I bring to Orientation? See also: Preparing for Orientation Copy of immunization records Driver’s license or state-issued photo identification Umbrella Light jacket How do I register for classes? All incoming students should schedule an advising appointment with their respective academic advisors. Please contact your academic department to set up an advising appointment and register for classes prior to attending spring orientation. Will I have my student ID made at Orientation? Yes! Photo ID cards will be made at the end of the orientation program day. You must bring your driver’s license or other photo identification to receive a student ID. Do I have to attend the entire program? You should attend all of the scheduled activities. Make plans to participate in the entire session and arrange your work schedule and travel plans accordingly. Although you may finish earlier, please be prepared to stay until 5:00 p.m. on January 13th. Should my parents come with me? Definitely! You can encourage your parents to attend orientation although it is not mandatory for them. We are ready to address all of their questions and concerns. If I plan to live on campus in the spring, when can I move in to my residence hall? Our Residence Life staff is prepared to move you into your residence hall after your orientation session on Thursday, January 14th. Please make plans to attend the breakout session about living on campus to receive more information about the move-in process and meet members of the Residence Life staff. Please direct any other questions to (901) 678-5513. NSO Information Spring 2016 Orientation Register for Orientation Prepare for Orientation Explore Your Options Register for Orientation Register to attend one of the orientation sessions. Be Prepared Things you need to know before your orientation. Explore Your Options Important information to help you during orientation. Meet Your Guides See the guides who will be available to assist you. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/17/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .