#http://www.memphis.edu/music/fac-staff/bios/jiang-p.php
Pu-Qi Jiang - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Faculty and Staff Alphabetical Applied Music Brass Keyboard Percussion Strings Vocal Arts Woodwinds Class Piano Composition and Theory Conducting Jazz Music Education Music History Music Industry Home Music Faculty and Staff Pu-Qi Jiang Pu-Qi Jiang (D.M.A.) Conducting Phone (901) 678-3775 Email pjiang@memphis.edu Fax (901) 678-3096 Office MU 243 Office Hours Contact Dr. Jiang for appointments. About Pu-Qi Jiang Pu-Qi Jiang, (pronounced Poo-Chi Jiang) is the recipient of the University of Memphis Faudree Professorship Award and the Germantown Arts Alliance 2011 Distinguished Arts and Humanities Medal for Performing Arts. He has enjoyed an active international conducting schedule as well as all levels of orchestral and conducting teaching for the past twenty years. Since 1990, he has conducted many professional orchestras in the United States, China, Austria, Germany, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Jordan, Macedonia, and the United Kingdom. He has led university faculty and student ensembles on concert tours in Beijing, Nanjing, Shanghai, Salzburg, Prague and Vienna. He conducted the University of Memphis Symphony Orchestra in performance of Mahler's Symphony #2 (mov. I, IV and V), which won the second prize in the American Prize Orchestral Performance (college/university) Competition in 2011. Maestro Jiang began his career at an early age as both violinist and choirboy in Shanghai. In 1956, he entered the Music Middle School affiliated with the Shanghai Conservatory of Music where he majored in violin. He was selected for admission to the conducting department of the Shanghai Conservatory of Music at the age of 18. His professional career began in 1968 after his graduation from the conservatory. After conducting many professional orchestras and ensembles in China for more than eighteen years, Maestro Jiang came to the United States in 1986. Having been awarded full scholarships by the University of Cincinnati and the United Board for Christian Higher Education in Asia, he studied advanced conducting at the College-Conservatory of Music (CCM) of the University of Cincinnati with Maestro Gerhard Samuel. At CCM, Jiang received his M.M. and D.M.A. degrees in Orchestral Conducting. Jiang was named the Assistant Conductor of the Cincinnati Philharmonia Orchestra in 1989. From 1991 to 1992, Professor Jiang worked as the Conducting Assistant to Maestro Jesús López-Cobos, Erich Kunzel and Keith Lockhart at the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra. Prior to his University of Memphis appointment, he was the Music Director and Conductor at Penn State and Ohio University, where he conducted three orchestras and taught advanced orchestral conducting for both graduate and undergraduate students. Dr. Jiang's M.M and D.M.A orchestral conducting programs have attracted talented young conductors from Australia, Canada, China, Columbia, Germany, Jordan, Korea, Russia, Taiwan, and the United States. Some of his students have won the Solti Foundation U.S. Award, the fellowship for American Academy of Conducting at the Aspen Music Festival and School, and the honor citation for the Orchestral Conducting Competition in 2010 from the America Prize. Dr. Jiang also has a passion for sharing his music experience with young music lovers under age of 18. He is the founder of the Germantown Performing Arts Centre Youth Symphony Orchestra. He led this young group to a very successful concert tour to China in the summer of 2011. Faculty and Staff Alphabetical Applied Music Brass Keyboard Percussion Strings Vocal Arts Woodwinds Class Piano Composition and Theory Conducting Jazz Music Education Music History Music Industry Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .