#http://www.memphis.edu/msci/ugrad/abm.php
Accelerated BS/MS Program - Math Sciences - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Mathematical Sciences About People Undergraduate Graduate Research News Undergraduate Admissions Honors Program Accelerated BS/MS (ABM) Advising Scholarships Courses &amp; Syllabi Cantor Sect Home Math Sciences Undergraduate Accelerated BS/MS Program Accelerated BS/MS Degree Program The department offers an Accelerated BS/MS degree program, with concentrations in Applied Mathematics, Mathematics, and Statistics. This program allows outstanding undergraduates to complete both a Bachelor of Science degree in Mathematical Sciences and a Master of Science degree in Mathematical Sciences within a total of five years, as opposed to the minimum of six years normally required. Students admitted into the program will follow a carefully designed program of study which allows them to begin course work for the Master of Science program during their senior year. Interested students are encouraged to consult with their undergraduate advisor in the Department of Mathematical Sciences and to begin planning to enter the accelerated BS/MS degree program early in their undergraduate career. Through careful coordination with their undergraduate and graduate advisors students will be able to graduate with both a bachelor's and master's degree within a five year period. To apply, students must have finished 18 credit hours of course work in mathematics by the end of the semester of their application. Applicants must have a cumulative GPA of 3.00 (on a 4.0 scale) as well as a GPA of 3.30 (on a 4.0 scale) in their mathematics courses. The initial application for the accelerated BS/MS degree program consists of the following two parts: A letter of intent including two letters of reference and a copy of the applicant's transcript to be submitted to the Department of Mathematical Sciences Application with the Graduate School for "combination senior" status To continue in the program beyond the bachelor's degree, students must also apply for full admission into the Graduate School and be accepted into the master's program by the Department of Mathematical Sciences. Up to 9 hours of graduate course work may be applied to both the undergraduate and graduate programs. Details on courses that can be applied will be available in the Department of Mathematical Sciences. However, any graduate course work will not be used to calculate the undergraduate GPA. Undergraduate Admissions Honors Program Accelerated BS/MS (ABM) Advising Scholarships Courses &amp; Syllabi Cantor Sect Contact Us How to contact us, and whom to contact about what. Student FAQ Student resources for advising, tutoring, and registering for classes. ALEKS Information on the ALEKS computerized placement test. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .