#http://www.memphis.edu/chucalissa/teacher-resources/eduationflyer15.pdf
CHUCALISSA EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS A RESOURCE FOR EDUCATORS (901) 785-3160 or chucalissa@memphis.edu Our Educational Info Packet is available here: Native American Music offers an in-depth look into musical traditions of Southeast Native Americans and cultures around the world. The program includes a presentation and a hands-on activity where students play instruments and participate in a drumming circle or a storytelling activity. Prehistory to Trail of Tears teaches students about the history of Native Americans in our region from 10,000 years ago to the present. The program highlights the prehistoric mound-building cultures and the contemporary Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations. Mystery Box provides an introduction to archaeology through a hands-on activity where students sort, inventory, and interpret a set of prehistoric and historic artifacts. Trash Talks is another hands-on archaeological program where students sort, inventory, and interpret items typically found in modern trash. The program emphasizes the need for conservation of cultural resources. Native American Sports & Hunting is a program offered to all students and provides an opportunity to play and learn about traditional sports and games. This program includes spear throwing as a hands on activity!African American History complements our recently installed exhibit, African American Cultural Heritage in Southwest Memphis. The interactive program chronicles events, people, and life in Southwest Memphis from the Civil War to the present day. Prehistoric Stone Tools & Weapons is a truly unique program in the Mid-South that teaches students about artifacts such as arrowheads, drills, and scrapers. Comparisons are drawn between past and present technologies, and students engage in dart throwing using an atl atl! What is Archaeology? is a new program that allows students to interpret the very same artifacts as archaeologists in reconstructing the lives of past cultures . The program is ideal for learning about lifeways ranging from prehistoric hunter-gatherers to the garbage left behind by contemporary society. 1987 Indian Village Drive Memphis, Tennessee 38109 (901) 785-3160