#http://www.memphis.edu/mscm/faculty/rgrover.php
RAJIV GROVER - MSCM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Marketing &amp; Supply Chain Management Welcome Programs Students Faculty PhD Students Publications FCBE Welcome Programs Students Faculty MKTG Faculty SCM Faculty PhD Students Publications Home MSCM Faculty RAJIV GROVER RAJIV GROVER Dean, Chair of Excellence Sales and Marketing, Department of Marketing &amp; Supply Chain Management Phone 901.678.3633 Email rgrover@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2685 Office BA 432 Office Hours by appointment Biography Dr. Rajiv Grover is the Dean of the Fogelman College of Business and Economics and the holder of the Sales and Marketing Chair of Excellence at the University of Memphis. Prior to his appointment as the Dean, he was the holder of the Terry Chair of Excellence and the Head of the Marketing Department at the University of Georgia. As the Dean, he is committed to satisfying the needs of the business, not-for-profit, and governmental communities, who he considers to be his customers, by supplying excellent students, who he considers to be his products. Based on this philosophy, the faculty and staff of the Fogelman College have been able to introduce several new, creative and innovative programs at a rapid pace at the Fogelman College. The College has been able to reengineer and develop curricula, course content and delivery, funding mechanisms, processes and policies, and communication vehicles. Dean Grover believes in the holistic development of students that encompasses intellectual, emotional, social, physical, and societal development and has set forth systems to achieve those. In the process of developing students on all these dimensions, the College has engaged the campus community; e.g., other schools and colleges, student services, and athletics; business and political communities; chamber of commerce; and other economic and social NGOs of the city of Memphis and the county. Dean Grover strives to motivate and inspire individuals both within the college and the university and beyond to reach higher goals by believing in themselves and working for a better tomorrow while synergistically managing the PR function and the media to promote the college and its programs. During his tenure, some of the noteworthy achievements by the faculty and staff have been: 1. Endowment and Revenues : a) breaking of fund-raising records for several years in a row; and b) devising creative means to overcome the unique challenges posed by the economic and environmental setting to garner significant dollars annually for executing the vision and strategic plan. 2. Vision and Strategic Plan : developing and executing a vision comprising customized and relevant training of MBAs; holistic development of students; community engagement for its economic development; enhancement of expectations for and delivery of research and teaching based on the portfolio model of faculty contributions; and communication of college goals and achievements to build the brand. 3. MBA Curricula and Innovative MBA Programs : a) incorporating soft-skill courses in the MBA programs b) forming partnerships with area businesses to launch the Customer-Driven MBA Program wherein companies sponsor students for the full-time MBA program and commit to internships and employment upon graduation; c) launching of and raising funds for the Entrepreneurship MBA Program; and d) launching the Online MBA Program. 4. Holistic Development of Students : creating and offering the Fogelman Promise Initiatives consisting of the 4Cs (Creativity, Critical Thinking, Communication and Emotional Control), Fogelman Fit, Etiquette, Toastmasters, Know Good – Do Good – Thrive, Professionalism First!, Fogelman Feeds, Women in Action, Against All Odds, Suits for Success and other programs through the recently established Avron B. Fogelman Center for Professional Career Development. 5. Online Education : training and certifying faculty and incorporating online teaching in standard work-load resulting in all majors being made available online. 6. Brand-building and Communication : significantly enhancing media presence, brand-equity and top-of-mind awareness of the College through outlets such as Fogelman Focus, Fogelman Flash e-Newsletter, Fogelman Features and through several types of stakeholder meetings. 7. External Relations : forming energetic supportive boards at the departmental and college level and compellingly engaging executives in enrichment activities for students. 8. AACSB Accreditation and Rankings : receiving unusually positive reviews during re-accreditation and being ranked for the first time in history by US News and World Report and others. Dr. Grover has held academic positions at Penn State, University of Pittsburgh, and the University of Georgia. He has been a visiting professor at Johns Hopkins, Duke and Stanford. He has also held corporate positions including the one of being a Senior VP at a Silicon Valley start-up that was engaged in software development in the e-commerce area. Dr. Grover’s area of expertise is marketing with specific capabilities in the interface of marketing research and marketing strategy. His accomplishments span research, teaching, executive development, editorships, consulting, expert witness engagements and authorship. He has published in top academic journals such as Marketing Science, Journal of Marketing Research and Journal of Marketing and has been on the editorial board of Journal of Marketing Research and Journal of Marketing. He has authored the book Theory and Simulation of Market-Focused Management (Dryden) and was the founding editor of The Journal of Market Focused Management. He has edited The Handbook of Marketing Research: Uses, Misuses, and Future Advances (Sage). He is currently leading a group of top scholars to create a graduate level Marketing Management textbook to be published by Prentice Hall. Dr. Grover's notable achievements in research, teaching and administration include: The prestigious O'Dell award for the best paper in the Journal of Marketing Research The Hugh O. Nourse Outstanding MBA Teacher Award The Lifetime Achievement Award in Marketing Research from Frost &amp; Sullivan The Choice Award for Outstanding Academic Title for the Handbook of Marketing Research The first ever ranking of the Marketing Department at the University of Georgia in The US News and World Report for two years in a row (20th/21st ranks – 2005 and 2006) The inclusion of Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics to the category of Tier I In addition to these achievements, he has consulted with and conducted executive education programs for leading organizations such as AT&amp;T, ALCOA, KPMG, PNC Bank, PPG, Texas Instruments, Citibank, IBM, Microsoft, Heinz, HP, and Eli Lily. Dr. Grover received his PhD from the University of Massachusetts, MBA from Indian Institute of Management and Electronics Engineering degree from the Indian Institute of Technology. Some useful URLs include: Some Press Articles: City's Contributors Inside the Newsroom: Cal's Real Legacy is City's Fertile Field Customer-Driven MBA Program at UofM aimed at Reducing Cost of Hiring Graduates Entrepreneurship Mastered: New UofM Program Supports Big Ideas UofM MBA Program Designed to Create New Businesses UofM course helps students polish skills for social side of the business world Fogelman Family Gives $2 Million Rajiv Grover to CCIM: Find ways to grow Memphis business pie Should Local Business Leaders be More Involved? Customer-Driven MBAs Win-Win For Students, Employers Fogelman College of Business focuses on wellness, soft skills True blue: Fogelman business college alumni help to lift the UofM brand University of Memphis Fogelman College volunteers assemble meal packets, build ties to city Avron Fogelman pledges $1.25M to University of Memphis business school University of Memphis Fogelman College of Business and Economics secures accreditation Dream big, go make it happen Fogelman donation builds career development program UofM failures don't include lack of passion University of Memphis Undergraduate business program ranks in top 100 for first time Rajiv Grover on the Cover of MBQ Magazine Geoff Calkins: A primer for Robert Pera -- 50 things to know about Griz and Memphis MBA applications rise in Memphis, dip nationally as confidence in job market wanes Johnson donates money to establish faculty, staff excellence program at FCBE Fogelman College of Business at UofM implementing a winning business model New scholarship keeps Catholic High grads in Memphis University of Memphis business school installs first Hall of Fame New lab at UofM will give students real-world financial trading experience University of Memphis establishing stock trading lab The Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics Videos PBS PAN IIT FCBE Alumni Luncheon 2009 CDMBA student video CDMBA employer video Best Business Schools 2011 Fogelman Promise Some Articles on Research and Teaching Philosophy Founding Editorial: Journal of Market-Focused Management Article: Marketing or Marketers: What or Who needs Reforming? BOOK CHAPTERS The Handbook of Market Research: Uses, Misuses, and Future Advances (Sage) INTRODUCTION : TRUSTED ADVISOR: HOW IT HELPS LAY THE FOUNDATIONS FOR INSIGHTS STRUCTURING MARKET RESEARCH DEPARTMENT AND PROCESSES FOR OPTIMAL IMPACT Essentials of Marketing Management PREFACE CHAPTER 1 V10 CHAPTER 10 SEGMENTATION 09 Other What Faculty, Students and Community are Saying Letter: UofM exceeds expectations Welcome Programs Students Faculty MKTG Faculty SCM Faculty PhD Students Publications Majors &amp; Minors See how a MSCM degree can benefit you! MSCM Internship Program Want to gain “real world” work experience related to your academic studies? Look no further! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/26/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .