#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/resources/howmdc.php
Masters Degree Candidacy Form Instructions - Graduate School - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate School Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Programs Events Resources Home Graduate School Resources Masters Degree Candidacy Form Instructions Master's Degree Candidacy Form Instructions REMINDER: All degree seeking students or students completing a graduate certificate must " Apply to Graduate " (located in the MyMemphis portal) AND must also submit candidacy forms. Failure to complete both the graduation application and a candidacy form will delay your graduation until the next semester. Please read instructions carefully When filing for graduation, students must have a cumulative GPA of 3.00 on all graduate work undertaken at The University of Memphis whether or not the courses are listed on the degree candidacy form. A minimum of 70% of the total required hours for a master's degree program must be 7000-level courses. No more than 12 hours of workshop courses and independent study courses may be applied to a master's degree. No more than seven (7) hours of C, C+, or C- grades will be counted toward degree requirements. Grades of D or F are not accepted for credit for graduation purposes, but the grades are computed in the overall cumulative GPA. Do NOT include undergraduate level courses, courses completed for "Audit" credit, or courses dropped or withdrawn. Course titles listed on the candidacy form may be abbreviated and should be no longer than 100 characters long for both letters and spaces between words. If you are currently enrolled in course work, include those courses on the candidacy form. Do NOT list excess hours beyond the number of hours required for your degree program. This is especially important for students in the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences who plan to earn Master's +30 Hours. List only graduate level course requirements, including all electives. If another course was substituted for a required course or for an elective, your major advisor must complete an Approved Course Substitution Form and attach to the candidacy form. If transfer credit has already been posted to your U of M record, complete and attach an Approved Transfer Credit form to the candidacy form. If you have transfer credit from another graduate institution that has NOT been posted to your U of M record, complete and attach an Evaluation of Transfer Credit Form to the candidacy form. Failure to submit the correct form will delay processing of your application, so please be sure the correct form is attached to your degree candidacy form. Students who hold a master's degree from The University of Memphis may pursue a second master's degree with a different major or degree. No more than six (6) semester hours of the first degree may be applied toward the second degree. Please place an asterisk on the candidacy form behind the "course title" for each applicable course. Also, please be aware that your time limitation for the second master's degree begins with the course work applied from the first master's degree. If you have previously completed a Credit by Examination/Course Validation Examination or are planning to complete either type of examination in your intended term of graduation, indicate the type of credit on your candidacy form in parentheses AFTER you have listed the course title, e.g., LDPS 7130, Microcomputer Application (CBE) or ICL 7001, Fundamentals of Curriculum (CBV). If you are completing a master's thesis, please list only the maximum number of hours allowed for the thesis, i.e., 3 or 6 hrs. It is NOT necessary to list all semesters you have enrolled in thesis credit. One entry is sufficient. REMINDER: Master's degree candidates completing a thesis must register for thesis credit each semester (fall and spring) until the thesis is completed. You must also be enrolled in the summer semester but only if the thesis will be defended and completed at that time. Failure to continuously enroll in thesis credit will result in the student being charged back tuition in additional to late fees for each semester he or she did not enroll. If you do not complete your thesis in your intended term of graduation, your graduation application in your MyMemphis portal will be automatically updated by the Graduate School. Upon completion of the candidacy form, print it out, obtain the necessary signatures from your academic advisor, graduate studies coordinator and the College Director of Graduate Studies . Students will be certified for graduation only when all requirements are met, including the removal of all I or IP grades from a previous semester. Printing Instructions: If this form does not print correctly on two pages, go to the Page Setup box under the File menu of your Internet browser and change page margins to the following specifications: Netscape: 0.30 for all margins -- L,R,T,B, Font Size: 11 Explorer: 0.50 for all margins -- L,R,T,B, Font Size: 11 If you have questions concerning the completion of the candidacy form, contact the Graduation Analyst, Michelle Stout , in the Graduate School for further information. Get More Information Request information about a specific program of interest. Graduate Catalog Learn more about our programs. Apply Now Submit your application today. Support Graduate Education Your gifts make a difference! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .