#http://www.memphis.edu/cepr/cpsy/
Counseling Psychology - CEPR - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Counseling, Educational Psychology &amp; Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Ed Psych &amp; Research Faculty Research Counseling Psychology Menu Admissions Application Faculty Program Highlights Forms for Current Students Prospective Student Information Student Admissions, Outcomes, and Other Data Diversity Training Statement Diversity Committee CPSY Doctoral Student Handbook Links Forum Graduate Bulletin Graduate School Research Teams Home CEPR Counseling Psychology Counseling Psychology The Ph.D. in Counseling Psychology at The University of Memphis is a full-time program designed to train psychologists who promote human development in the areas of mental health, emotional and social learning, career development, and decision-making in a rapidly changing environment. Students entering with a master's degree typically complete three years of coursework and a fourth year of predoctoral internship. The majority of the students complete their dissertations prior to or during the internship and graduate at the end of their fourth year. The program is administered through the Department of Counseling, Educational Psychology and Research, College of Education, Health and Human Sciences. The program was accredited by the American Psychological Association* effective October, 1989*. Philosophy Training is organized around the scientist-practitioner model of critical thinking and program faculty strive for an equivalent emphasis on developing both clinical understanding and skills and facility with research. The program emphasizes responsibility and commitment to human welfare. Didactic and experiential activities and coursework are designed to anchor students firmly within the discipline of psychology. The department has a strong commitment to training professionals to work with diverse populations in urban settings. Program Goals and Objectives In accordance with the missions of the University, College, and Department, the Counseling Psychology program prepares professional psychologists who, upon graduation, are expected to become licensed and assume leadership roles in their communities. Students are expected to acquire: (1) a knowledge and skills base in psychology, research, counseling, psychological evaluation, and ethical, legal, and professional standards; (2) an identity as a counseling psychologist; and (3) the cultural competence needed for working in a diverse environment. The program is individualized to meet the students' goals. Graduates are prepared for positions in various settings including university counseling centers, community mental health centers, medical centers, independent practice, academia, and business. More detailed information on program goals, objectives, and competencies can be found here . Faculty Research Teams As with all doctoral programs, the Ph.D. in Counseling Psychology places a strong value on engaging in the research process. Faculty supervise research teams that provide students with opportunities to gain experience with the research process, present at conferences, and publish. Current teams are studying GLBT issues, international issues, multicultural and early family career issues, wellness, animal-assisted therapy, and masculinity. For examples of collaborative research, see the Program Highlights and Research Team links in the left sidebar. Student Information The program admits 7-8 students each year. Applicants are admitted once each year and are expected to begin coursework in the Fall semester; applicants for Spring admission are not considered. Students entering with a master's degree are expected to spend a minimum of three years in residence in Memphis and then complete a predoctoral internship in their fourth year. Students complete 78 hours of coursework in the substantive areas of psychology and counseling psychology, 12 hours of dissertation credit, and 9 hours of internship credit. Clinical Training Opportunities The Memphis urban area provides a wide variety of field training sites including mental health centers, hospitals/medical settings, college counseling centers, prisons, rehabilitation agencies, and independent practices. Students typically enroll in their first practicum placement in the summer of their first year. Most students enroll in four or five practica semesters during the program. Student Financial Aid Support is available through Graduate Assistantships in research, teaching, or administrative work. The Department Chair, Dr. Doug Strohmer, makes assistantship assignments. Selected community training sites appropriate for professional counseling psychologists offer paid external placements that provide experience, training, and monetary stipends through University-funded grants for some students. A limited number of scholarships are available through the Graduate School. Details are available in the Graduate Catalog. Eligible students may also apply for available grants and loans. Admission Requirements and Application Procedures Applicants to the doctoral program in Counseling Psychology typically hold a Master's degree (or equivalent) in counseling, psychology, or a related mental health field and often have had substantial supervised counseling work experience. The following master's level courses (or their equivalents) are typically completed as part of master's level training in counseling or psychology programs. However, if these were not completed in masters' programs, they are prerequisite to full admission in the doctoral program: Group Processes Theories of Counseling Career Counseling Assessment Techniques Pre-Practicum techniques/Practicum Statistics/Research Individuals without master's degrees are considered for admission only if they have substantial post-bachelors academic, clinical, or research experience. Applications for both the Graduate School and Department program must be completed. Please refer to the Graduate School for the Graduate School admissions information or contact: Office of Admissions The University of Memphis Administration, Suite 215 Memphis TN 38152 (901) 678-4212 Please click on the link below to download the application form and instructions. Counseling Psychology Application Form Email the completed Application Form as a .pdf (preferred) or .doc to CPSY@memphis.edu . Please write the following in the subject line: "CPSY Application- [First and last name]." Instructions for letters of recommendation can be found in the application form. All applications must be received no later than December 5, 2015 to be considered for the fall 2016 admission date. For more information regarding the Counseling Psychology program, please contact Dr. Suzanne Lease . Counseling Psychology Program Dept. of Counseling, Educational Psychology and Research The University of Memphis 100 Ball Hall Memphis TN 38152 (901) 678-2841 *For information on accreditation, please visit the APA website at: Or contact them at: Office of Program Consultation and Accreditation American Psychological Association 750 First Street, NE Washington, DC 20002-4242 Phone: 202 336-5979 Fax: 202 336-5978 email the Office at: apaaccred@apa.org Additional Information Memphis, with a population of approximately one million, is one of the South's largest and most attractive cities, offering an array of affordable housing, cultural attractions, and a variety of opportunities for training and professional development. More detailed information about the program and the city's cultural and recreational opportunities is contained in the current Graduate Catalog and at Portal Memphis . Counseling Psychology Menu Admissions Application Faculty Program Highlights Forms for Current Students Prospective Student Information Student Admissions, Outcomes, and Other Data Diversity Training Statement Diversity Committee CPSY Doctoral Student Handbook Links Forum Graduate Bulletin Graduate School Research Teams Admissions Current Students Student Organizations Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .