#http://www.memphis.edu/records/faq.php
Frequently Asked Questions - HR Records Management - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. HR Records Management Staff Directory Services Deadlines FAQs Faculty Calendars Human Resources Home HR Records Management Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Do temporary employees receive holiday pay? No. Temporary employees do not receive pay for holiday, bereavement, annual or sick leave. Will I need to go through the Office of Institutional Equity (OIE) to hire a temporary employee? No. The Compensation section of Human Resources does consult, however, with OIE to ensure compliance with all regulations regarding the hiring of temporaries, especially in the case of annual salary greater than specified limits and nepotism. How much may I pay a temporary employee? Use the university's pay plan as a guideline. Specified rates have to be approved by HR Compensation. May a departing faculty member be paid all deferred money and longevity, if due, in a lump sum payment? Yes, with the approval of the Provost. May I use my University office address as my permanent address? No. A permanent/home address is needed for several reasons, not the least of which is that in the case of emergency; the University needs to know where to reach an employee and/or their family. Further, any mail addressed to a University office, i.e. department office, can be considered University business and subject to being opened even if it has an employee name on it. May someone review my employee record maintained in the Human Resources Records office? Yes. The employee's supervisor may review the record at any time. In addition under Tennessee Public Records laws, any citizen of the State of Tennessee may review and even purchase copies of employee personnel files. Notwithstanding, however, under the same laws certain personal information may not be reviewed. These are unpublished telephone numbers; bank account information; social security number; driver license number except where driving or operating a vehicle is part of the employee's job description or job duties or incidental to the performance of the employee's job; and the same information of immediate family members or household members. Where may I obtain a copy of my W-2? Current employees may retrieve and print a copy of past W-2 forms via the myMemphis Portal, Employee Tab. Previous employees without Portal access should contact the Payroll Department in Room 272 of the Administration Building or by calling 678-3841 to obtain a printed copy. Where do I go to change my W-4 or Direct Deposit? Forms are available online. You may also go in person to the Payroll office, located in the Administration Building, room 272. How may I find my U-Number (aka, University ID#, Banner ID#)? Your U-Number is your unique University identification number. It consists of the letter "U" followed by 8 digits. You should include this number, rather than your social security number, in all correspondence with the University. Do not supply your social security number unless specifically asked by a University employee who has a legitimate need to know it. Your U-Number is also referred to as your University ID#, Banner ID#, or even Student ID#. There are two methods you may use to find this information, the myMemphis portal or iAM. Directions to both are listed below. MyMemphis Portal Login to the myMemphis portal . Students : Click on the "Student" tab. Faculty: Click on the "Faculty" tab. Students: Click on a link in the Registration Tools channel (try Registration Status). Faculty: Go to one of your Faculty Self Service links (Faculty Detail Schedule, Attendance Reporting, Final Grades, etc.). When the page appears, look in the upper right-hand portion of the screen: you should see your "U" number and name above the term and the day's date/time: IAM information Use iAM to find your U-Number: Go to iam.memphis.edu . Login with your U of M UUID (Username) and Password. The main menu page for iAM appears. Look in the upper right-hand corner of the screen. Your U-Number appears in parentheses behind your UUID in the "Logged in as" line: Miscellaneous Info Direct Deposit The first direct deposit to your account will usually be the second payroll after the Payroll Office has entered your authorization. If you make a change to your direct deposit, your next check will be manual and will need to be picked up at the Bursar's teller windows with picture identification. Part-time Instructor Payment Spring part-time instructors are paid in February, March, and April. Fall part-time instructors are paid in September, October, and November. Employee Separation &amp; Clearance System For use with voluntary clearances only HR Partners HR's campus-wide communication group Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the U of M Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .