#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/news/archive_memo/2014s/01_deansmessage.php
Greetings from Fogelman College! - FCBE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty &amp; Staff Research News News News Current News News Archive Events College Publications Fogelman Focus Fogelman Flash Memo: Memphis Fogelman Features Department Newsletters Home FCBE News Greetings from Fogelman College! Greetings from Fogelman College! Over the past few years, the Fogelman College of Business and Economics has experienced a significant change in its culture. The result of this change has been improved performance of our students, faculty, and staff. In my opinion, such a positive shift is the result of the development and implementation of the culture of student centeredness. In this message, I would like to share some of what we are doing to inculcate student centeredness in our culture. Student centeredness implies that we focus specifically on developing positive attributes in our students. Students are our products, not our customers. To instill desirable characteristics in our students, we are making a change in the way they are being educated. We have taken to heart that there is a difference between the traditional manner of teaching students and preparing students for their life-long journey. Hence, we are not only providing our students with a solid academic foundation, but we are also preparing them for what comes after college. To help us achieve this proactive goal of complete preparation, we have implemented 1) new teaching techniques and 2) new programs specifically designed to make our students more real-world ready. In this e-newsletter, we showcase one of the jewels in our student-centeredness crown, the Complete Professional Program. This program is designed to teach students the necessary skills to succeed in a professional environment. It is offered through the College’s Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center. The Complete Professional Program’s philosophy is to holistically prepare students for a career in the real world and, hence, provide them with a competitive edge. The program emphasizes the importance of a strong educational foundation and also trains students to become ethical, polished, healthy, and community-oriented professionals. Some of the programs that help polish students include business etiquette, communication (presentation and written skills), emotional control, critical thinking, creativity, inspiration for peak performance, discipline-specific coaching for careers, and individualized attention to applying for and preparing for job interviews. I hope you enjoy this snapshot of some of the programs we are initiating at Fogelman. If you want to know more, or if you have any questions, please feel free to call me at (901)-678-3633 or email rgrover@memphis.edu. I would love to discuss our College’s programs with you in greater detail. Thank you, Rajiv Grover, Dean. News News Current News News Archive Events College Publications Fogelman Focus Fogelman Flash Memo: Memphis Fogelman Features Department Newsletters Apply to our Undergraduate Programs &gt; Enroll at the university and engage yourself with our six different departments, student enrichment, and more. Apply to our Masters Programs &gt; Earn your degree with one of our six MBA tracks or with one of our four specialized Masters programs! Apply to our Doctoral Programs &gt; Interested in a Ph.D.? Start the journey towards your Ph.D. here! Contact Us &gt; Have questions? Call or email today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .