#http://umwa.memphis.edu/umpolicies/UM1496.htm
UM1496 - Corporate Credit Cards - The University of Memphis The University of Memphis Corporate Credit Cards POLICIES Issued:&nbsp September 15, 2005 Responsible Official:&nbsp Vice President for Business & Finance Responsible Office:&nbsp Human Resources Policy Statement Policy Statement The University makes available to eligible employees a corporate credit card for job-related travel expenses. Employees are to use their corporate credit card to charge business-related travel expenses. The University will only issue cash advances for travel purposes on an exception basis. Reimbursement will be made to the employee for actual expenses upon proper submission of a claim for travel expenses. The use of the corporate credit card must be limited to job-related travel expenses. The employee is solely responsible for all charges made to the card. Purpose &nbsp To set forth eligibility, usage and reimbursement of expenditure requirements for the corporate credit card Contents Procedures Eligibility Application Reimbursement of Expenditures Lost or Stolen Card Separation from Employment FAQs How do I contact the issuing bank? Whom do I contact for further information? Where is information about car rental insurance? Links Application for Corporate Travel Card University Travel Policy Car Rental Information TBR Travel Guidelines Procedures Eligibility Regular full-time faculty or administrative/professional staff who travel at least once a year to business-travel functions or spend more than $300 a year for local business-related travel and/or entertainment are eligible to apply for a corporate credit card. Regular clerical/support and part-time employees are eligible to apply for a corporate credit card, provided their department head approves the application and their salary is at least $15,000 annually. Application Corporate Credit Card application form may be obtained online or from the Department of Human Resources. Eligible employees should mail or fax a completed application to the issuing bank address on the application. When processing is complete, the issuing bank will mail a corporate credit card directly to the applicant. Reimbursement of Expenditures All charges made to the corporate credit card will be billed directly to the employee. The employee must submit a travel claim to the Accounting Office for reimbursement of expenses. Reimbursement for expenses incurred while on travel status will be made in line with the University Travel policy and TBR guidelines. Employees should pay the issuing bank directly for all charges made on their corporate credit card. Lost or Stolen Card The employee should notify the issuing bank promptly in the event a card is lost or stolen. Separation from Employment Employees leaving the employ of the University must surrender their corporate credit card to the Department of Human Resources and pay any outstanding balances. The Department of Human Resources will then notify the issuing bank to cancel the employee&rsquo;s account. FAQs How do I contact the issuing bank? Contact information for the issuing bank is available on the Application for Corporate Travel Card form at Whom do I contact for further information? Contact the Department of Human Resources at hr@memphis.edu . Additional contact information is available online at: Where is information about car rental insurance? Contact the Department of Human Resources at hr@memphis.edu . Additional information is available online at: Links Application for Corporate Travel Card University Travel Policy Car Rental Information TBR Travel Guidelines Revision Dates &nbsp UM1496 Rev.1 - Updated: September 15, 2005 UM1496 - Issued: June 19, 2003 - supercedes policy number 2D:05:11B Subject Areas: Academic Finance General Human Resources Information Technology Student Affairs &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp