#http://www.memphis.edu/financialaid/index.php
Financial Aid - Financial Aid - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Financial Aid Undergraduate Graduate Law Scholarships Student Employment Home Financial Aid Welcome! The Office of Financial Aid administers federal, state, and institutional aid programs to qualified students. To receive financial aid, qualified students must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) . U.S. citizens, lawful permanent residents and qualifying non-citizens are eligible for federal financial aid. The 2015-2016 FAFSA is On-Line Now! The 2015-2016 FAFSA is now available at . 003509 is the school code for the University of Memphis. Please note the priority deadline for the Fall 2015 Semester is March 1, 2015 . Note : Financial aid awards for Summer 2016 require the results from the 2015-2016 FAFSA. HOW TO ACCEPT/DECLINE YOUR AWARD OFFER(S) Log on to your myMemphis account Click on the Account$ tab Scroll down, then click on the Financial Aid Awards link NOTE: If you do not have this link/"channel", call the ITD Help Desk at 901-678-8888. Select the Aid Year 2015-2016, then Submit Read the information under the General Information tab (note that the Accept Award Offer tab is not yet clickable/activated) Click on the Terms and Conditions tab, then scroll down to 'Accept' (the Terms and Conditions) Click on the Accept Award Offer tab, then scroll down Click on the drop down box next to your award OFFER and select an option. Need help with the 2015-16 FAFSA? Check out these online tutorials: Another useful tutorial, the 5-Minute FAFSA Overview: (Clicking the above links opens a new window to the UC Santa Barbara website where the tutorial is hosted.) Students must also submit any other required documents in order to complete the application prior to being awarded. That information is posted for students on myMemphis . Sign up online NOW for eRefunds to receive excess financial aid and fee refunds. Contact Us: Office of Financial Aid Phone: 901-678-4825 103 Wilder Tower Fax: 901-678-3590 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152-3520 E-Mail: financialaid@memphis.edu Office hours are: Monday - Friday 8:00am - 4:30pm. Financial Aid Forms Check your myMemphis account for missing documents. Financial Aid Checklist Some things you need to know to receive financial aid Frequently Asked Questions Some of the most common financial aid questions Links of Interest Some important links to get you started Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .