#http://www.memphis.edu/vpbf/standcom/facscom.php
Facilities and Services - Vice President for Business &amp; Finance - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Vice President for Business &amp; Finance Staff Directory Meet the Vice President Standing Committees Records Management Standing Committees Facilities and Services Fee/Refund Appeals Public Records Traffic and Parking Home Vice President for Business &amp; Finance Standing Committees Facilities and Services Facilities and Services Standing Committee The University Facilities and Services Standing Committee report to the Vice President for Business and Finance. The Committee is responsible for reviewing and advising on all matters relating to buildings and grounds, parking, campus security and safety, and other staff services as they relate to the use of University facilities and the academic programs of the University. Charge The Vice President for Business &amp; Finance will annually appoint members to The University Facilities and Services Standing Committee. Its functions shall include, but not be limited to: Reviewing staff services relating to maintenance of buildings and grounds to ensure consistent support of academic programs and accessible use of University facilities. Advising the Vice President for Business and Finance concerning ways to improve buildings, grounds, and other staff services to the University community. Assisting the University Budget Task Force in establishing priorities by advising the committee on renovations, extraordinary maintenance, and deferred maintenance projects. Reviewing recommendations for building identification information before forwarding to the Vice President for Business and Finance for endorsement and submission to the President for approval. Advising Campus Planning and Design regarding the Campus Master Plan and the University Signage and Graphics Program. Advising Physical Plant and Campus Planning and Design on University Policies and Procedures as they relate to University facilities and services. Providing a means of enhancing communications among Physical Plant, Campus Planning &amp; Design and University faculty, students and staff. All formal recommendations and decisions of the Committee are advisory. They should be submitted to the Vice President for Business &amp; Finance for review, discussion with the President, and action. MEETINGS: The first meeting should be held early in the new school year, preferably in September. Thereafter, meetings will be held as necessary to fulfill the committee's function(s). COMPOSITION: The Vice President for Business and Finance will appoint the chair of the committee. Two faculty members will be appointed from Faculty Senate recommendations and two staff members will be appointed from Staff Senate recommendations. Student representation will include a member of the SGA Student Services committee, an undergraduate, and a graduate student. Other members will include the Assistant Vice President for Physical Plant, the Assistant Vice President for Campus Planning and Design, Director of Student Disability Services, Director of Police Services, Director of Residence Life, Manager of Environmental Health and Safety, Chair and Co-Chair of the Space Policy Council. The Space Planning Director and the President's Liaison to the University Neighborhood will serve as ex-officio members. REPORTS TO: Vice President for Business and Finance. ANNUAL REPORT: Due on or before July 15 and shall contain at least the following information: activities, issues, and proposed solutions discussed by the committee; an outline of unresolved issues which might be considered, discussed, and acted upon during the next year; a report on contributions of committee members; and any recommendations for membership on the following year's committee. Membership FY 2013 - 2014 Appointee Notes Fiscal Year Appointed Rank/Title Department E-Mail Address Dr. Michael Hagge Chair (effective FY 2014-15) 2014-15 Assoc Professor Chair Architecture mdhagge@memphis.edu Tony Poteet 1998-99 Assistant Vice President Campus Planning &amp; Design ppoteet@memphis.edu Al Simpson 2001-02 Director Environmental Health &amp; Safety asimpson@memphis.edu Bruce Harber 2001-02 Assistant Vice President Administration/Chief Police Services bharber@memphis.edu Dr. David Cox 2001-02 Professor Public Administration davidcox@memphis.edu Edwina Washington 2003-04 Assistant Vice President Business Services etwshngt@memphis.edu Susan Te Paske 2003-04 Director Disability Resources for Students stepaske@memphis.edu Dean Hansen 2013-14 Assistant Vice President Physical Plant dlhansen@memphis.edu Richard Irwin 2014-15 Interim Vice Provost Academic Innovation rirwin@memphis.edu Thomas Carrier 2014-15 Assistant Athletic Director Athletics tcarrier@memphis.edu Dr. Linda Brice 2013-14 Clinical Associate Professor Lambuth lrbrice@memphis.edu Peter Groenendyk 2011-12 Director Residence Life petercg@memphis.edu Jan Brownlee 2013-14 Interim Chief of Staff Office of the Provost jbrownle@memphis.edu Monique Savage 2011-12 Director Conference Planning &amp; Operations mlsavage@memphis.edu Kathy Johnson ex-officio, non-voting 2012-13 Director Space Planning &amp; Utilization kjhnsn36@memphis.edu Ashley Holloway Staff Senate Representative 2012-13 Administrative Associate I Counsel Education Psych Research anhollwy@memphis.edu Sharon Harber Staff Senate Representative 2012-13 Administrative Associate College of Arts &amp; Sciences dcummngs@memphis.edu Perveen Rustomfram Faculty Senate Representative 2014-15 Assoc Professor Library prstmfrm@memphis.edu Genae Strong Faculty Senate Representative 2014-15 Assoc Professor Nursing gdstrong@memphis.edu Student Members Notes Fiscal Year Appointed Classification Major E-Mail Address Annika Bailey Junior Health Services Adm abailey@memphis.edu Timothy Heard Junior Sport and Leisure Management theard2@memphis.edu Sam Hedge Sophomore Management jhedge1@memphis.edu D'Onna James Junior Marketing/Communication ddjames2@memphis.edu Colton James Sophomore Undecided cbjames@memphis.edu Abigail Marbibi Junior Human Development amarbibi@memphis.edu Standing Committees Facilities and Services Fee/Refund Appeals Public Records Traffic and Parking Process Improvement The Vice President of Business &amp; Finance is an executive sponsor of the University's Process Improvement efforts. Crisis Management Crisis Management is responsible for developing and implementing programs in emergency preparedness. Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .