#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/Univ_college/asian.php
Asian Studies and International Trade - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Asian Studies and International Trade Asian Studies and International Trade A. General Education (35-41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. Students who have completed one year of American History in high school are exempted from the six credit-hour History General Education Program requirement; otherwise, students will have to meet the History requirement. For the Humanities requirement, HIST 1120 is highly recommended. For the Social and Behavioral Sciences requirement, ECON 2010 and 2020 fulfill this requirement. B. Asian Studies for International Trade Concentration Students must complete the requirements in each of the following three groups: Group 1: Foreign Language (9-21 hours) Requirement: 9 hours at the 3000-level or above. Students with previous background in the chosen language (Chinese or Japanese) must take the placement test to determine in what course they should enroll. Students with no previous background in the chosen language will enroll in CHIN 1010 or JAPN 1010. Group 2: Area Studies (6 hours) Students must complete 6 hours from the following: HIST 3290 - Traditional Asia HIST 3291 - Modern Asia HIST 4292 - History of Modern China HIST 4294 - History of Modern Japan HIST 4295 - Intellectual History of East Asia Group 3: International Economics and Business Studies (24 hours) ECON 2010 - Introduction to Macroeconomics ECON 2020 - Introduction to Microeconomics 18 Additional hours of business courses: FIR 3410 - Financial Management FIR 4550 - International Finance MGMT 3110 - Organization and Management MGMT 4810 - International Management MKTG 3010 - Principles of Marketing MKTG 4530 - International Marketing NOTE: Any other non-economics business course can count towards these 18 hours. C. College Requirements (9 hours) Thematic Studies (6 hours) Recommended choices: ESCI 4307UNIV 4506 - Thematic Studies in China Senior Project (3 hours) UNIV 4995 - Senior Project (3 hours) All sections of UNIV 4995 are taught online. Students will be assigned to a specific section based on the topic they select. D. Recommended Electives (hours vary) ANTH 3200 - Peoples and Cultures of the World ANTH 3511 - Culture, Kin and Family ANTH 4413 - Anthropology of Tourism ANTH 4414 - Culture and Transnational Processes COMM 4373 - Interracial Communication COMM 4375 - Intercultural Communication CSED 2101 - The Family in Global Perspective ESCI 1301 - Survey of World Regions ESCI 1401 - Introduction to Cultural Geography ESCI 3430 - Economic Geography INTL 3700-09 - Special Topics in International Studies INTL 4601 - Seminar in International Studies JOUR 4712 - Mass Media and Cultures PADM 4401 - Comparative Public Administration POLS 1301 - Governments of the World POLS 1501 - International Relations POLS 3310 - Politics of the Developed World POLS 3320 - Human Rights in World Politics POLS 3325 - Politics of the Developing World POLS 3330 - Politics of Globalization POLS 3505 - International Organizations POLS 3506 - American Foreign Policy POLS 3509 - Contemporary Problems in International Relations POLS 4307 - Government and Politics of Communist China POLS 4504 - International Law POLS 4506 - Problems of American Foreign Policy POLS 4508 - Theories and Concepts in International Relations POLS 4510 - Politics of the Global Economy POLS 4511 - International Conflict SOCI 2100 - Sociology of International Development SOCI 4413 - Globalization, Culture, and Information Technology Experiential Learning Credit Students may be granted credit for college-level knowledge related to their major area of study that they have gained from work experience, life experience, or non-college instruction. Students who would like an assessment of such learning must prepare a portfolio that describes and documents their learning experience. Portfolios are assessed by faculty who teach in the student's field of study. Assessment by Portfolio is reserved for knowledge and competencies that do not readily fit into the Credit by Examination procedures. For more information please visit the Experiential Learning website at College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .