#http://www.memphis.edu/rsp/sponsored_programs/advance_account.php
Advance Account - RSP - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Division of Research and Sponsored Programs Vice President Compliance Sponsored Programs Research Development Sponsored Programs Contract Services Grant Services Find Funding Intent to Submit Prepare Budget Prepare Proposal Submit Proposal Advance Account Award Acceptance Award Set-Up Monitoring Close Out Institutional Information Educational Resources Agency/Sponsor Links Research Resources Grants &amp; Contracts Accounting Home RSP Sponsored Programs Advance Account ADVANCE ACCOUNTS Overview An Advance account provides the Principal Investigator/Project Director (PI/PD) with an opportunity to initiate sponsored research projects and begin incurring associated expenses prior to institutional acceptance of an award. Advance accounts allow PI/PD's and departments to record and track expenditures and eliminate the need to charge other unrelated accounts and perform cost transfers at a later time. Requesting an Advance Account The PI/PD initiates a request by submitting an Advance Account Request Form (AARF) to the Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) through his/her department or school. All requests must have a valid submitted proposal through OSP and a high expectation that the project will be awarded. Advance Account Request Form (AARF) The Advance Account Request Form (click here) is a fillable PDF which you can download to your computer. If your browser does not support fillable forms, download the form to your computer and use Adobe Acrobat open it in fillable format and enter your information. Establishing an Advance Account and Possible Negotiation Issues and Risk In the majority of cases, OSP will establish an advance account upon request because the University has an established history with the sponsor and the issues to be reviewed prior to executing the requisite agreement are routine. There are some cases, however, where significant negotiation of areas of concerns to the PI/PD, the department and/or school, and the University may be required. In these instances, prior to establishing the account, the Director of OSP will identify areas of concern and the associated financial and non-financial risks, to the extent these risks can be identified, to ensure the PI/PD and his/her department or school are aware of the risks they are accepting. Examples of negotiation issues include, but are not limited to, control of scope of work and key personnel; subaward issues; publication restrictions and confidentiality requirements; lack of criteria for acceptable performance; intellectual property terms; termination and default clauses; and indemnification. In requesting and accepting an advance account on behalf of a PI/PD, the department or school assumes the financial risk in the event the award is not made, not accepted, or if the terms of the award deem certain expenditures to be unallowable. The OSP will use its best efforts to finalize an award, but cannot guarantee a successful outcome of any award negotiation. Time Period Ordinarily, an account may be in advance status no more than 120 days from the start date of the advance account budget period. Advance accounts that have not been converted to active status within 120 days of the start date of the budget period may be subject to closure and expenditures transferred to an appropriate unrestricted account. Using Advance Accounts Advance accounts should be used prudently. Only those costs that are incurred: Within the project period; In accordance with applicable regulations, e.g., OMB Uniform Guidance 2 CFR 200, PHS Grants Policy Statement, sponsor specific regulations, and; Depending on the sponsor, have been included in the approved budget should be charged to the account. As stated previously, any expenditure incurred while an account is in advance status is made at the department's or school's risk. At the time of initial account request, the department or school designee is required to agree in writing to cover any expenditure if the award is not made or if sponsor awarded conditions preclude reimbursement for expenses that precede the award start date or are otherwise deemed unallowable and to provide an account number should it be necessary to transfer expenses. Pre-Award Spending and Advance Accounts While PI/PD's may also use the AARF to request pre-award spending, i.e., approval for costs to be incurred prior to the starting date of the award, authorization of pre-award spending should not be confused with authorization of an advance account. The AARF can now be used to request simultaneous approval of pre-award spending, an allowable cost on many federal awards, and establishment of an advance account. Before incurring pre-award expenses, the PI/PD should consult with the Director of OSP to confirm whether pre-award expenses are permissible under the applicable sponsor regulations or terms. Monitoring Advance Accounts On a monthly basis OSP will provide each school with a report that lists all advance accounts and includes account number, PI, sponsor name, projected budget period, funding amount authorized for pre-award expenses, and cumulative expenditures. Based on these monthly reports, accounts in advance status beyond their effective dates will be identified for discussion with the PI and school or department to identify reasons for the delay and possible solutions. Throughout the advance account period it is the responsibility of the PI and department/school to keep each other apprised of developments regarding award notification, acceptance, and negotiation. Removing an Account from Advance Status Upon acceptance of the award by the University, the account will be removed from advance status by the Office of Sponsored Programs. The department/school is responsible for removing expenditures from the advance account if the award is not made, not accepted, or if the terms of the award deem expenditures to be unallowable. If expenditures are not removed from the advance account within 30 days of written request of their removal, Grants Accounting/Business &amp; Finance will transfer the expenditures to the designated account provided by the department/school at the time the advance account was established. Signature Requirements Prior to submission to OSP, the following signatures are required on the AAFP: Principal Investigator or Project Director Department Chair or Designee College Dean or Designee When required for internal department and/or college procedures: Lab Director Department or College Administrator Sponsored Programs Contract Services Grant Services Find Funding Intent to Submit Prepare Budget Prepare Proposal Submit Proposal Advance Account Award Acceptance Award Set-Up Monitoring Close Out Institutional Information Educational Resources Agency/Sponsor Links Research Resources Grants &amp; Contracts Accounting Forms Forms and other useful information Staff Staff of Research and Sponsored Programs and Grants Accounting Resources Institutional information and resources for the researcher Research Portal Research Portal Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .