#http://www.memphis.edu/bursar/info/bapp.php
Bookstore Advance Payment Plan - Bursar's Office - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Bursar's Office Staff Directory Fees Calendars Students Parents Campus Card Other Student Info eRefund Sign-up Financial Aid Disbursement Bookstore Advance Payment Plan Student Financial Appeals 1098-T Tax Information Ask TOM FAQs Home Bursar's Office Other Student Info Bookstore Advance Payment Plan Bookstore Advance Payment Plan (BAPP) To utilize BAPP you must have the following: Excess Aid of at least $300 University ID Card Title IV authorization on file What is BAPP? The Bookstore Advance Payment Plan (BAPP) is a program that will allow qualified student to use their excess authorized financial aid at the University Bookstore to buy textbooks and school supplies prior to the date that financial aid will be released to students. What is excess aid? Excess authorized aid is the aid that will be available after all university fees are paid. When will BAPP be available? FALL 2015 DATES Undergraduate: Starts August 3, 2015, Ends August 14, 2015 Graduate: Starts August 3, 2015, Ends August 14, 2015 Law: Starts July 27, 2015, Ends August 7, 2015 Why would I want to use the BAPP? During this time period, qualified students are allowed to buy early and be prepared for class — all while taking advantage of lower priced used textbooks before they fly out the door. How do I qualify? You qualify if your excess aid is at least $300 and you have a Title IV authorization on file. How do I sign up? You do not need to sign up. Excess aid between $300 and $1,300 is transferred to the plan automatically. Can I decide how much I want to transfer to the plan? No. Excess aid between $300 and $1,300 will be transferred to the plan automatically. How do I use the money to buy my books and supplies? You will access these funds at the University Bookstore using your Campus (ID) Card through a fund called “Bookstore Fin Aid Advance.” For the bookstore's hours of operation, please select one of the following: Main Campus Bookstore Lambuth Campus Bookstore Law School Bookstore * Please note: The Bookstores will have special hours after the semester ends and during the holidays. Be sure and check the store hours on their website during this time. Where can I buy my books? This advanced fund may only be used to purchase textbooks and school supplies at the University Bookstore. Please Note: Law and Lambuth students can utilize BAPP at the bookstore on their campus as well as the Main Campus bookstore. How do I know how much is available on the “Bookstore Fin Aid Advance?" Log on to your Campus Card account during the dates listed above. Your BAPP funds will be visible under “Your Card Transactions” as “Bookstore Fin Aid Advance” and amount will be indicated under “Current Balance.” Please Note: The posting of the “Bookstore Fin Aid Advance” is not an automatic process. It may take up to 24 business hours after your authorized aid has been posted to your UofM account to be available at the bookstore. What if I choose not to take advantage of the Bookstore Advance Payment Plan? BAPP is not mandatory. If unused, your excess aid will be refunded by direct deposit (if you have signed up) or a check will be mailed to you following the normal refund schedule . What if I add or drop classes or move into the dorm or lose my aid? Available “Bookstore Fin Aid Advance” may be adjusted due to subsequent changes in your account. What if I make adjustments to my account and I’ve already spent the money at the bookstore? At the end of the period listed above, a charge will be placed on your UofM account for the amount that you charged at the bookstore. When financial aid is released to pay your tuition and fees, the bookstore charge will also be paid. If the aid is not enough to pay the bookstore charge due to reduction in aid and/or added classes or other new charges, then you will be liable for payment of the bookstore charge and you will have a Bursar financial hold placed on your account until your account is paid in full. If you have questions about your UofM account status, please check TigerXpress . For information on excess financial aid/scholarship refunds, please visit the Financial Aid Office . Other Student Info eRefund Sign-up Financial Aid Disbursement Bookstore Advance Payment Plan Student Financial Appeals 1098-T Tax Information Ask TOM FAQs TigerXpress View your statements and pay fees online in TigerXpress. Tuition Estimator How much will your courses cost? Get an estimate online! Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the U of M Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .