#http://libguides.memphis.edu/bands
Home - Microsoft Bands - LibGuides at University of Memphis Libraries University Libraries LibGuides Microsoft Bands Home Microsoft Bands: Home This is a brief overview of the Microsoft Bands and how to use them. Home Creating your Health Dashboard Resetting Microsoft Bands Band Sizing Developers Circulation Policies CHECK OUT AT THE MCWHERTER LIBRARY CIRCULATION DESK Microsoft bands may be borrowed for 3 Days The bands may not be renewed. 24 hour wait period before you can check the band out. You must fill out a form each time you borrow MD2K The Microsoft Bands are provided in conjunction with the research of the University of Memphis MD2K NIH Center for Excellence. For more information on the research of the center, click on the icon above. What is a Microsoft band A Microsoft Band is a wrist bracelet that allows you to capture biometric data about your daily activities. This data can be exported to a Microsoft health account and downloaded. In order to use a Microsoft band you must have a Microsoft Health account . Click here for instructions on setting up an account. Important Information! These notes are included for the benefit of users: USER NOTE: Band is water resistant but not waterproof; do not immerse in liquids of any kind nor wear while swimming or in the shower. USER NOTE: In most cases, a full Microsoft Band battery will provide two days of use. This is based on one hour of exercise tracking and eight hours of sleep tracking per day. Battery life will vary depending on how the Microsoft Band is used, as some features use more battery than others like GPS. USER NOTE: Microsoft Band will reach a full charge in approximately 90 minutes, and can reach nearly 80% within 30 minutes of charging. It&rsquo;s recommend that the user charge the Microsoft Band during routine periods of downtime. USER NOTE: If using Cortana on a Windows Phone 8.1 mobile device, notifications for voice texts and notes, calendar scheduling, email configuration, weather, reminders, and more will show up on the band . Microsoft Band provides cross-platform functionality, and works with Windows Phone 8.1 update, iOS 7.1, 8 and Android 4.3-4.4 phones with Bluetooth. Band features include an Optical heart rate sensor, 3-axis accelerometer, Gyrometer, GPS, Ambient light sensor, Skin temperature sensor, UV sensor, Capacitive sensor, Galvanic skin response. To get the full Microsoft Band experience, user must pair the device with a smartphone. However, even without a paired mobile phone, the user can still enjoy some of the fitness functionality of Microsoft Band such as: steps, calories burned, heart rate measurement, basic running, exercise, and sleep summaries. The Microsoft Band &rsquo;s watch functionality also works independent of a smartphone, including stopwatch, timers, and alarms. Other Microsoft Band &rsquo;s features, such as access to Cortana (when paired to a Windows Phone 8.1 device) and guided workouts, can only be experienced when paired to a smartphone. User must pair the device with a smartphone at least once to complete setup via the mobile app. Download the free Microsoft Health app from the Windows Store, Play Store, or App Store. Box includes band with rechargeable Lithium ion battery, USB charging cable, Safety and Warranty Guide, and Quick Start Guide. Microsoft band (fitness tracker) Activity tracker Fitness &amp; activity monitor View the Item Record Microsoft Health In order to use the Microsoft Band you must have a smartphone and a Microsoft Health application. Use the links below to download the application. For IOS For Android Connecting When connecting to a mobile phone, be sure to use the application to pair. If you are connecting to a second band, be sure to remove the previous band from your bluetooth settings Librarian Cody Behles Subjects: Help/How-To Guides Next: Creating your Health Dashboard &gt;&gt; Last Updated: Sep 30, 2015 3:08 PM URL: Print Page Login to LibApps . Report a problem . Subjects: Help/How-To Guides