#http://www.memphis.edu/cepr/faculty/
CEPR Faculty - CEPR - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Counseling, Educational Psychology &amp; Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Ed Psych &amp; Research Faculty Research Home CEPR Faculty CEPR Faculty counseling Pamela A. Cogdal, Ph.D ., Southern IL. University-Carbondale (1989). Career and work-life balance, practice outcomes, assessment, suicide prevention and couples/relationship issues. Richard K. James, Ph.D ., Indiana State University (1974). Crisis intervention, elementary school counseling, and anger management. Chloe Lancaster ,Ph.D., Texas A &amp; M University (2009). Program Evaluation, career and college counseling, school counseling and creativity, efficacy of group interventions, foster care and adoption research. Daniel Lustig , Ph.D., University of Wisconsin, Madison (1995). Family adjustment and adjustment to disability. Dewaine Rice ,Ed.D., Memphis State University (1980). Moral development of young adults, student affairs issues and clinical hypnosis. Eraina Schauss , Ph.D., (2011) George Washington University. Child cognitive, behavioral, emotional and neurodevelopment, family systems therapy, career development and coaching. Stephen Zanskas , Ph.D., Michigan State University (2007). Development of consultation skills in graduate rehabilitation counseling education programs, the psychosocial aspects of disability, professional issues and ethics. counseling psychology Sara K. Bridges , Ph.D . , The University of Memphis (1999). Interests include counselor training, couples and family therapy, human sexuality, and constructivist theory. Elin Ovrebo , Ph.D., The University of Memphis (2009). Current interests are international issues in Counseling Psychology, LGBT counseling, social justice, and gender. Suzanne H. Lease , Ph.D., Southern Illinois University-Carbondale (1989). Current interests are: career counseling with racial and ethnic minorities, masculine ideologies and relationships, multicultural counseling, and health promoting behaviors. Click for more information on the Masculinity Research Team . Richard Lightsey , Ph.D., University of Maryland (1992). Interests: resilience, the relationship between stress and depression, stress and coping strategies. Laura Reid Marks , Ph.D., Purdue University (2015). Interests include: career development in disadvantaged college populations (e.g., first generation college students, racial/ethnic minorities), sexual health disparities, and immigrant mental health. Chrisann Schiro-Geist , Ph.D., Northwestern University (1974) . Interests include: international, vocational, and disability-related issues in counseling psychology. Current research projects are in the areas of vocational psychology, as it relates to return-to-work for incarcerated persons, and transitions to work for high school seniors with disabilities. The research team is examining the role of animal-assisted therapy in the prison and academic settings. In addition, theTigerLIFE program has a focus on working with young adults attending the University of Memphis in a post-secondary transition program. Graduate students are working with these post-secondary transition students as they accomplish career decision -making for persons with special needs. A "systems approach "to the team’s work addresses the individuals’ characteristics, as well as environmental barriers. Douglas Strohmer , Ph.D. Dr. Strohmer has stepped down from his department chair duties and rejoined the faculty full-time. His interests include: clinical judgment and decision-making, medical decision-making and the Internet, personality assessment, counseling process, professional identity, men in counseling, and disability issues. educational psychology &amp; research Joe M. Blackbourn , Ph.D., Mississippi State University (1985). Behavior Analysis; Single Subject Research Designs; Learning and Metacognition; Psychology of Leadership; Descriptive Psychology; Philosophy of Science. Alison A. Happel-Parkins , Ph.D., Georgia State University (2011). Qualitative methodology; Post-structural, post-colonial, and feminist theories; Ecojustice and ecofeminist education. Leigh M. Harrell-Williams, Ph.D., Virginia Tech (2009). Statistics and quantitative research methods; instrument development; Rasch, IRT and SEM applications with educational and psychological data; K-12 math teacher efficacy to teach statistics; assessment of behavioral and emotional risk in K-12 students. Yeh Hsueh , Ed.D., Harvard University (1997). Development of young children; Cross-cultural early childhood education; Development of developmental psychology in the United States; Children and media. Michael M. Mackay , Ph.D., The University of Memphis (2013). Statistical and methodological consultant for the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences. Research interests include employee engagement; student engagement; survey construction and psychometrics; meta-analysis. Christian E. Mueller , Ph.D. University of Kentucky (2006). Developmental trajectories of intrapersonal, interpersonal and environmental factors influencing achievement motivation in at-risk students (e.g., adolescents, gifted, minority); Measurement issues (e.g., Rasch modeling) in education and psychology. Program Coordinator for Educational Psychology. Vicki Sallis Murrell , Ph.D., University of Memphis (2005). Toxic stress and its impact on behavior and learning; Use of constructivism and cognitive-learning theories in online-mediated teaching and learning; Impact of evolving technologies on cognitive processes; Training faculty for online teaching. Program website developer. Susan Naomi Nordstrom , Ph.D. The University of Georgia (2011). Poststructural and post humanist theories, onto-epistemology, Deleuze, feminist new materialism, qualitative research methodology. Ernest A. Rakow , Ph.D., University of Chicago (1974). Teacher evaluation; Innovative uses of statistics. Interim Dean of the College of Education. Karen Weddle-West , Ph.D., University of Tennessee (1982). Cultural diversity; Minority teachers; Child psychology; Infant development; Adolescent pregnancy; At-risk children. Provost of the University of Memphis. Denise L. Winsor , Ph.D., University of Nevada, Las Vegas (2008). Child development; Development in context; Early epistemological thinking; Technology in preschool-age children. Teacher beliefs and the use of strategies for high-order thinking. Liason for undergraduate programs. Yonghong Jade Xu , Ph.D., University of Arizona (2003). Multivariate statistics and quantitative research methods; Gender disparities in STEM disciplines; Structural equation modeling; Big data analysis with statistical and data mining approaches. Chia-chen Yang , Ph.D., University of Wisconsin-Madison (2014). Adolescent development; Social media use, social relationships, and identity development among youth. Admissions Current Students Student Organizations Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/10/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .