#http://umwa.memphis.edu/umpolicies/UM1460.htm
UM1460 - International Travel for University of Memphis Students - The University of Memphis The University of Memphis International Travel for University of Memphis Students POLICIES Issued:&nbsp August 22, 2012 Responsible Official:&nbsp Provost Responsible Office:&nbsp Center for International Programs and Services Policy Statement Policy Statement All travel out of the country for University of Memphis student-related programs such as studying abroad, internship or student teaching must be approved by the Center for International Programs and Services (CIPS). This policy applies to both credit and non-credit activities, and includes internships and student teaching. Purpose &nbsp To assist University of Memphis students traveling overseas on University sponsored activities. Through pre-departure orientation, to minimize any risks or inconvenience that might be caused by improper documentation or inadequate preparation for travel. Procedures International Travel with Students and Non-Students All formal University sponsored trips to international sites, whether for-credit or not-for-credit, must be registered with the Study Abroad Office at the Center for International Programs and Services before the trip or program is authorized to be announced. Travel arrangements must be made in consultation with the Study Abroad Office. All student fees associated with the travel must be collected by the Center for International Programs and Services. Students must complete all required application forms. Any student who does not submit the required forms or does not provide proof of adequate insurance for the duration of the proposed overseas stay will not be permitted to participate in the program. Students must attend pre-departure orientation sessions conducted by the Study Abroad Office and sign a Statement of Responsibility and Assumption of Risk form. The Study Abroad office will identify faculty/staff trip leader(s), when the destination and number of students travelling indicate that a trip leader is warranted, in consultation with the relevant academic or administrative department. Faculty/staff leading such trips must review all materials provided by the Study Abroad Office and be familiar with safety and security issues and with University of Memphis Study Abroad crisis protocols. Student eligibility for all international travel on University programs or University sponsored activities includes maturity and good academic standing. Those students enrolled in credit-bearing programs must also have, at minimum, a 2.0 cumulative grade point average. Any exceptions to the eligibility requirements related to academic standing must be approved by the Study Abroad Office and the Academic Status and Retention Office. Insurance for Travel Abroad All University of Memphis students traveling abroad on a university sponsored program must be covered by health, medical evacuation and repatriation of remains insurance. Students will be required to show proof of insurance before departure. Brochures on insurance for students on study abroad may be obtained from the Study Abroad Office and the Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services. Suspending or Cancelling Programs Due to Health and Safety Concerns Various sources are constantly monitored in order to keep abreast of situations in the world that might affect the health and safety of students during their time abroad. The University of Memphis will review these situations on a case by case basis, and may take precautionary measures that modify a given study abroad program itinerary or cancel a program altogether when a significant health or safety concern is raised. These health and safety concerns may arise from a number of sources such as natural disasters, warnings from governmental or non-governmental health organizations, or other indicators of potential health or safety threats. Key factors in determining the risks to which an international traveler may be exposed to include mode of transport, destination(s), duration and season of travel, purpose of travel, standards of accommodation, food hygiene and sanitation, behavior of the traveler, and the underlying health of the traveler. Other travel-related risks of consideration include disease transmission in destination or travel plans, containment measures of disease, quality of surveillance of disease, and quality and accessibility to medical care in travel destination. The University may decide to suspend or cancel a program before it starts or while it is in process. Suspension and/or cancelation of a program will be decided by a committee comprised of University Legal Counsel, the Vice Provost for Academic Affairs, the Chair of the International Programs advisory board, and others appointed by the Provost. In an emergency situation, where it is impractical for the committee to meet, the Provost or designated official may take immediate steps to have students removed from a country, region or area. Travel to countries with which the U.S. does not maintain diplomatic relations is permitted only under guidelines offered by the U.S. Department of State. The University of Memphis will not be responsible for a full refund of expenses incurred by students should the University cancel a program based on a safety or health issue. Students will receive a full refund of maintenance and application fees paid to the University of Memphis. However, payments made to an airline or travel agent to secure transportation and/or housing will be refunded based on that provider&rsquo;s refund policy. Students are therefore encouraged to purchase travel insurance policies that will issue refunds for travel cancelations related to natural disasters, travel warnings, epidemics etc. Travel Warnings The U.S. Department of State and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) are two key sources for safety and health updates regarding specific countries and regions. The highest level of travel alert that the State Department issues is a &ldquo;Travel Warning.&rdquo; These Travel Warnings warn against all travel or recommend that U.S. citizens consider deferring non-essential travel to the country in question. Similarly, the highest level of alert issued by the CDC is a &quot;Travel Health Warning,&quot; indicating that CDC recommends against nonessential travel to the area because the risk for the traveler is considered to be high. For a current list of countries that are under a travel warning please refer to the U.S. Department of State website at: and the CDC website at: . The University of Memphis will not sponsor international travel for research, work, travel and study abroad to any country or region for which the U.S. Department of State or the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has issued a travel warning. Accordingly, the University of Memphis will not allow students to apply for scholarship awards or any other University funding to travel, study, intern, perform research, or engage in any other University-related business in countries or regions for which the State Department or CDC has issued a Travel Warning prior to the start of the program or trip. If a Travel Warning is issued while a University of Memphis program is in progress, the program will be suspended and students will be required to return home or withdraw from the program. The University of Memphis strongly discourages international student travel for research, work, travel and study abroad to any country or region for which the U.S. Department of State or the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has issued a travel warning. Accordingly, the University of Memphis will not allow students to apply scholarship awards, institutional financial aid or any other University funding to travel, study, internships, research trips, or University-related business in countries or regions for which the State Department or CDC has issued a Travel Warning prior to the start of the program or trip. Travel Alerts and Travel Health Precautions The U.S. Department of State and the CDC also issue &quot;Travel Alerts&quot; and &quot;Travel Health Precautions&quot; to disseminate information about short-term conditions that pose significant risks to the security of U.S. citizens in specific countries or regions. Natural disasters, terrorist attacks, coups, anniversaries of terrorist events, election-related demonstrations or violence, disease outbreaks, and high-profile events, such as international conferences or regional sports events, are examples of conditions that might generate a Travel Alert or Travel Health Precaution. As opposed to Travel Warnings, the University will not automatically suspend a program in a country or region where a Travel Alert or Travel Health Precaution has been issued by the U.S. Department of State or the CDC. The University of Memphis will review Travel Alerts and Travel Health Precautions on a case by case basis. Final decisions in regard to suspending/cancelling a program in an area with Travel Alerts or Travel Health Precautions will be made by the Director of International Program and Services. Students will be required to sign a Liability Release before travel to the country that is under the Travel Alert or Travel Health Precaution will be permitted. Appeals Process Appeals to reinstate a suspended or canceled program or to permit the use of University funds towards travel to a country under a Travel Warning or Travel Alert and Travel Health Precaution may be made, in writing, to the Director of the Center for International Programs and Services. Appeals will be considered by a committee composed of University Legal Counsel, the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Programs, the Chair of the International Programs advisory board, and others appointed by the Provost. This committee will make a recommendation to the Provost for final determination by the President. If a program is approved upon appeal, that approval may be revoked based on safety concerns at any time prior to or during the duration of the program abroad. FAQs Where do I obtain International Travel Forms? Contact the Center for International Programs and Services. via email: studyabroad@memphis.edu on the web: Whom do I contact with additional questions? Contact the Study Abroad Office in the Center for International Programs and Services: via email: studyabroad@memphis.edu on the web: Links Study Abroad Application Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Travel Warnings U.S. Department of State Travel Warnings University Travel Revision Dates UM1460 - Issued: August, 22, 2012 Subject Areas: Academic Finance General Human Resources Information Technology Student Affairs &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp back to editor