#http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/resources/hb_academics.php
Parent Handbook: Academics - Parent &amp; Family Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parent &amp; Family Services About Events Communication Resources Get Involved Give Back Visit UofM Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Home Parent &amp; Family Services Resources Parent Handbook: Academics Parent Handbook: Academics at UofM There are 12 different Schools and Colleges at the University of Memphis Main and Lambuth Campuses, plus off-campus locations including: Collierville, Cordova, Germantown, Millington, Whitehaven, and Dyersburg. Students seeking a degree are admitted to a school or college and not the University itself. Consequently, most academic policies, rules, and regulations are unique to the specific school or college to which a student applies. Each student should familiarize themselves with their specific school or college’s policies and degree requirements. Those students who are non-degree seeking must apply to the University. These students should be aware that students can take only up to 1/3 of a degree requirement’s load before having to apply to a school or college. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law College of Arts and Sciences College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education Fogelman College of Business and Economics Graduate School Herff College of Engineering Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Loewenberg School of Nursing School of Communication Sciences and Disorders School of Public Health University College Academic Calendar Academic year calendars mark the major activity dates (class start/end dates, exam dates, and commencement) of each term and its parts. Each Academic Year begins with the Fall term and ends at the conclusion of the Summer term (Ex, Fall 2010- Summer 2011). Students wanting registration, add/drop, fee payment, etc., dates and deadlines for a particular, immediate term should review the Dates &amp; Deadlines Calendar for that term. Academic Support for Students At The University of Memphis, our vision is that academic advising will empower students, impact decisions, and exceed expectations. Academic advising is one of the ways that each new student can have one-on-one contact with a supportive member of the University community. Each undergraduate student will be required to meet with an academic advisor every semester. This meeting can be an important opportunity to assess the freshman student's adjustment to college. Freshmen meet with their academic advisor for the first time at New Student Orientation . The first advising appointment is a chance to meet the advisor and get acquainted. In addition, freshmen will plan for the first semester of classes during this meeting. Registration is completed at New Student Orientation. Future meetings with the academic advisor will help the student clarify academic, career, and personal goals. The relationship with the academic advisor is enhanced by the active participation of the student. Read more about student and advisor responsibility in academic advising. What is Advising? The purpose of academic advising is to facilitate the intellectual and personal development of our students, to enhance their academic performance, and to ensure student progress toward graduation by assisting them in achieving the following objectives: Choosing, clarifying, planning and achieving their life goals; Exploring academic options so that they can make meaningful short- and long-term decisions Identifying a major program to achieve educational, career, and life goals Selecting courses that integrate their educational and personal goals Assuming responsibility for current information about University degree requirements, including General Education, academic policies, practices, programs and support services. Academic Advising Tutoring Services: Educational Support Program provides academic assistance for classes that students are currently taking at the UofM. ESP free services are available to graduate and undergraduate students. Tutoring is offered both on campus at one of our Educational Support Program Centers and online. Currently, the University offers online tutoring in Math, Statistics, Biology, Chemistry, Physics, and Writing. Educational Support Program 901-678-2704 Academic Regulations As with all colleges and universities, students are bound by academic regulations. For more information on each of the topics, please click the link. Class Attendance Adding and Dropping Courses Withdrawal from the University Enrollment Transactions Classification of Students Credit Hours, Full-Time Classification Maximum Load Academic Standards Grades and Quality Points Grade of Incomplete In Progress Grade Changes “T” Grade Grade Reports Withholding of Grade Reports Repetition of Courses Audit Courses Credit/No-Credit Courses Undergraduate Grade Appeal Procedure Purpose Procedure Computing Grade Point Average Academic Fresh Start Academic Status and Retention Recognition of Academic Performance Dean’s List Graduation with Distinction Transfer Credit from Other Institutions Transfer Credit from Previous Instruction Earning Transfer Credit after Enrollment at the University of Memphis Transfer Credit from Distance Education Additional Means of Earning Credit Advanced Placement Credit International Baccalaureate Program Credit for Instruction in the Armed Services Credit for Non-collegiate Sponsored Instruction Credit by Examination CLEP and DANTES Standardized Examinations Departmental Examination Upper Division Credit by Validation Examination Credit for Course Placement and Completion Credit for Experimental Learning by Assessment Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Contact Us Got questions, comments, or concerns? We're here to help! Parent &amp; Family E-news Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News. Parent &amp; Family Handbook Learn about opportunities and services available to students. In the Now: September FAQs What you need to know this month to help you help your student Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .