#http://www.memphis.edu/cresh/frequentquestions/
Frequent Questions - MemphisCRESH - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. MemphisCRESH About CRESH Who Can Apply Frequent Questions Sponsors Home MemphisCRESH Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Q1. What is the purpose of CRESH? Inspire pre-collegiate students to consider a science research education and learn about the impact of science and research on our community. Q2. Is previous research experience required? No. CRESH seeks to provide the initial research experience. Q3. What grade level is eligible? Juniors or Seniors Q4. What coursework is prerequisite? Math (ex. Algebra, Calculus, and Trigonometry) and sciences (ex. Chemistry, Physics, and Biology) Q5. What is the qualifying Grade/GPA? Minimum of a B in math and science courses Q6. From what area are students recruited? Commutable distance to UofM campus Q7. Is there a required essay? Yes, a career essay explaining why and how the CRESH program can help them in their future Q8. Are recommendations required? Yes, three letters of recommendation Q9. What is the cost? The cost of the program is a) $1,500 fee and b) 6 weeks of your summer. Financial aid is available (download Financial Aid form). Q10.What does program fee cover? Lunch tickets for every day, printing of the student’s research poster, lab materials, parking pass, program T-shirt and participation in the professional lecture series Q11. What about refunds? What if I must cancel? Information will be provided on the day of registration. Please contact the program director for details. Q12. How can I apply? First you must have an endorsement from your high school counselor. Then download the application form, fill it out and email or fax it to Q13. What are the dates and times? The CRESH program will run from (Summer 2015 dates to be announced). Q14. How will CRESH benefit me? Participants will experience what it is like to engage in research on a professional level. The students will potentially make lasting connections for career networking at the UofM and beyond. Completion of the program will be documented with a certificate and reseach poster. The poster will be showcased on the program website for all to see. Q15. How long are students expected to remain on campus during the day? 9am-5pm daily Q16. What about transportation? Students responsible for their own transportation If your questions have not been answered, please contact the Director: Dr. Firouzeh Sabri | fsabri@memphis.edu | 901-678-2126 Student Work Examples From cancer research, to solar energy, to materials for space applications, view examples of previous years of students' work. Forms and Materials Application, Financial Aid and Teacher Endorsements forms Department of Physics and Materials Science MemphisCRESH is an outreach program through the Department of Physics and Materials Science Contact Us Main contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .