#http://www.memphis.edu/leadership/social/
LeaderShape® - UofM LEAD - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UofM LEAD Emerging Leaders TLI Conferences Professional Development Social Change Social Change LeaderShape® Overview Brochure Curriculum FAQs Application Leadership Exchange Overview Application Home UofM LEAD Social Change LeaderShape® How to apply for LeaderShape®? LeaderShape® Online Application The next session of The LeaderShape Institute at the University of Memphis is May 8-13, 2016. Even though the session does not start until mid-afternoon on the 10th, please be reminded that is Mother's Day and you may need to plan accordingly. The application has several parts and can be saved and completed over multiple occasions, but you must submit a finished copy by April 13th. Follow-up communication about selections will not occur until after the deadline. What is LeaderShape®? The LeaderShape® Institute is an intensive, energizing, integrity-based educational experience designed to equip young adults to become extraordinary leaders. The University of Memphis session will be comprised of 50 students and have a curriculum that is presented by a group of facilitators, who are able to serve as excellent role models for the students. Much of the week's work is done in small groups called "Family Clusters," which create a safe, supportive learning environment that allows participants to work together, form close friendships, and benefit from new perspectives. Each student in the cluster works to define his/her personal vision - an extraordinary commitment to changing or contributing to the world in a positive way. Based on that vision, participants then develop a blueprint for the action that they will undertake when they return home - with the objective of effecting meaningful, measurable change in their organization during the next 9-12 months. With the guidance of LeaderShape® facilitators, participants complete a blueprint that identifies the goals, relationships, and action steps that are essential to the project's success. Dynamic, challenging, and exciting, the week is intended to produce a breakthrough in the leadership capacity of participants - benefiting the students themselves, their respective organizations, and the institutions that they will go on to lead and serve in the future. Click HERE to see a Brochure about LeaderShape®. Questions? Please direct any questions about the Memphis session to Kay Barkoh at kbarkoh@memphis.edu or (901) 678-8679. You are also welcome to stop by our office in room 211 of the University Center. Please visit for additional information about The LeaderShape® Institute. Social Change LeaderShape® Overview Brochure Curriculum FAQs Application Leadership Exchange Overview Application Contact UofM LEAD Find out more about the variety of opportunities we offer you! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .