#http://www.memphis.edu/presweb/communications/february15md2kupdate.php
MD2K Update - Office of the President - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Office of the President About Mission and Plan Communications Leadership Contact Communications from the President's Office President's Report Home Office of the President Communications MD2K Update The U of M's first NIH Center of Excellence — the Mobile Sensor Data-To-Knowledge Center — is just a few months old, but it is already creating a culture of research excellence at the University of Memphis. The NIH awarded the University a prestigious $10.8 million Center of Excellence grant that will focus on the exploding mobile health (mHealth) field. The grant is part of a $32 million NIH investment that establishes 12 Centers of Excellence across the country that each will tackle specific data science challenges. The Centers are developing new strategies to analyze and leverage the increasingly complex biomedical data sets, often referred to as Big Data. The U of M's work entails collaboration among 27 investigators from 11 universities: Cornell, Georgia Tech, University of Michigan, Rice, Northwestern, Ohio State, UCLA, UC-San Diego, UC-San Francisco, University of Massachusetts and the U of M. The U of M Center will spend the next four years developing innovative tools to make it easier to gather, analyze and interpret health data generated by mobile and wearable sensors. It will directly target reducing hospital readmission in congestive heart failure patients and preventing relapse in abstinent smokers. Its lead scientist, U of M computer scientist Dr. Santosh Kumar, provides an update on recent developments at the Center: Since its launch last October, the NIH Center of Excellence for Mobile Sensor Data-to-Knowledge (MD2K) has witnessed several exciting new developments: The MD2K Center is using five sources of mobile sensor data to reduce hospital readmission in congestive heart failure patients and to improve smoking cessation. The first source is a wearable chest-band called AutoSense that collects electrocardiogram (ECG), respiration and accelerometry and can be used to monitor stress (continuously from ECG and/or respiration) and smoking (from respiration). Second is a smart-watch with inertial sensors that can infer smoking and eating events by tracking arm movements of an individual. (The MD2K Center is negotiating with several large technology vendors to use their recently released programmable smart-watches that have a display and vibration capabilities.) In addition to monitoring eating and smoking behaviors, the display or vibration of a smart-watch can also be used to deliver sensor-triggered intervention. The third source is a radio frequency (RF) based micro-radar sensor, called EasySense, which can non-invasively measure heart activity and lung fluid volume in congestive heart failure patients. Fourth is a smart eyeglass that captures video in the direction of a wearer's gaze. This is used to detect exposure to smoking cues, such as seeing a cigarette advertisement, and simultaneously assessing the state of the person (e.g., fatigue) by monitoring the eye itself. Finally, data from the smart-phone's Global Positioning System can be used to infer geo-exposure for factors such as proximity to point-of-sale for tobacco or proximity to fast food (sodium rich) restaurants. MD2K is developing innovative tools to make it easier to collect, integrate, manage, visualize, analyze and interpret health data generated by mobile and wearable sensors such as the ones mentioned above. The goal of the big data solutions being developed by MD2K is to reliably quantify physical, biological, behavioral, social and environmental factors that contribute to health and disease risk. Such comprehensive measurements (when combined with other data sources, such as genomics and electronic health records) can herald a new future of medicine — known as precision medicine — where treatments and drugs can be tailored to each person to have maximum efficacy with minimum side effects. The Precision Medicine Initiative that was announced by President Obama in January is targeted toward realizing this vision of improved precision medicine. More than a million participants are being recruited from across the country to collect and contribute comprehensive data about themselves. (In February, Dr. Kumar and fellow MD2K team member Dr. Kevin Patrick from the University of California, San Diego, were a part of a small group of scientists invited to Washington, D.C., to participate in an NIH-sponsored workshop to present their recommendations on incorporating mobile technologies in the Precision Medicine Initiative.) New hires: Since the launch of the MD2K Center last October, we have recruited five key new members: Dr. Vivek Shetty, a professor of oral and maxillofacial surgery at UCLA, joined MD2K as the lead of its training activities; and four leaders from academia and industry joined MD2K as members of its Executive Advisory Board: Dr. Steven M. Dubinett, director of the Clinical and Translational Science Institute at UCLA; Dr. Eric Fain, Group President of St. Jude Medical Group; Dr. Harry Shum, Executive Vice President for Technology and Research, Microsoft; and Dr. Victor Strecher, Director for Innovation and Social Entrepreneurship at the University of Michigan. Upcoming software releases, events By the end of this summer, the MD2K Center plans to release the first version of its mobile phone software for collecting mobile sensor data from wireless wearable sensors. At the same time, it is scheduled to release data analytics software (free, open source) for processing mobile sensor data and converting it into information, knowledge and, ultimately, action. In August, MD2K will organize a weeklong training institute to prepare young scientists for trans-disciplinary collaborations in mobile health. MD2K also will launch a comprehensive web-based resource library called mHealthHUB, which will be an online community where mHealth researchers can share the latest research, new products, datasets, software, news, meeting and job opportunities — as well as a place to exchange ideas. Visit the MD2K webpage ( ) for the latest updates and more information on MD2K. A video summarizing MD2K is available at: (Barbara Burch Kuhn, MD2K director of communications and media, contributed to this story.) David Rudd | President Andrew Meyers | Interim Vice President for Research Communications from the President's Office President's Report Dashboard UofM steps towards success Year of Service Initiative Learn how your service hours can provide scholarships for students! President's Blog News, stories, videos and more Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .