#http://www.memphis.edu/parking/blueline/severeweather.php
Severe Weather Blue Line Procedures - Parking &amp; Transportation Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parking and Transportation Services Staff Directory Permit &amp; Other Parking Lambuth/Millington Parking Resources The Blue Line Information Vote For Your Favorite Blue Line Driver Track the Blue Line here! Download the Blue Line mobile app here! Blue Line FAQs Special Event Shuttle Reservation FAQs Special Event Shuttle Reservation Form Severe Weather Blue Line Procedures Your opinion matters: Take The Blue Line Survey Home Parking &amp; Transportation Services The Blue Line Severe Weather Blue Line Procedures Severe Weather Blue Line Procedures Tornadoes are generated from powerful thunderstorms and appear as rotating, funnel clouds that extend to the ground with winds around the vortex that may exceed 300 mph. Tornadoes normally travel 30-40 mph. If you and your passengers are caught in a tornado warning, the supervisor on duty will issue specific instructions via two-way radio. Alerts are issued by the National Weather Service and are classified in two major areas: TORNADO WATCH This means conditions are such that storms capable of producing a tornado may develop. TORNADO WARNING This means that either a tornado has been sighted or that it is highly probable that one will develop. A warning will be signaled by the outdoor warning sirens. TigerText, social media and email alerts will be activated. Alert employees and students in your immediate area. Keep tuned to local radio if it is available. Supervisor and Shuttle Driver Preparedness Guidelines Remember your priorities: Protect life Preserve property Maintain service Remain calm, be prepared to make decisions quickly Monitor local radio as the weather system develops and keep the two-way radio traffic to a minimum to receive instructions In the event that the National Weather Service issues a Tornado Warning and the outdoor sirens are activated all buses must be evacuated in a safe and timely manner. Per severe weather protocol outlined in the University of Memphis Crisis Management Plan, please adhere to the following procedures: All routes: Never try to outrun a tornado. Passengers must be informed of the situation and advised to exit the shuttle immediately upon stopping. Park the bus in any area and ensure the bus is not obstructing emergency vehicle traffic. Take shelter in the basement of the closest building, if a basement is not available, find shelter in an interior room or hallway. Stay away from windows! If there is no time to get indoors, get out of the vehicle immediately and take shelter in a ditch or low-lying area between the vehicle and the tornado. Do not take shelter in a ditch that is downwind of the vehicle. Use arms to protect your head and neck. Once the bus is evacuated the driver must: Verify all passengers are evacuated Obtain a numerical count of passengers Notify your supervisor of your location Activate the 4-way hazard signals Turn off the bus and secure the door Seek shelter All Clear Procedure: Once the supervisor on duty has verified an all clear has been issued by the National Weather Service: All bus drivers will wait on instructions from the supervisor on duty Once advised, drivers will be instructed to board passengers and resume service Verify number of passengers and notify supervisor of discrepancies Report any passenger injuries Be alert for any road debris or downed power lines If bus is damaged and deemed unsafe for passengers, notify supervisor and remain at location for additional instructions Have a question we didn't answer? Send us an e-mail . The Blue Line Information Vote For Your Favorite Blue Line Driver Track the Blue Line here! Download the Blue Line mobile app here! Blue Line FAQs Special Event Shuttle Reservation FAQs Special Event Shuttle Reservation Form Severe Weather Blue Line Procedures Your opinion matters: Take The Blue Line Survey TigerPark Don’t wait in line…Go online! The Blue Line The Blue Line shuttle at the University of Memphis. Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place. Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .