#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/
Degree Planning - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Degree Programs and Courses Graduate and prospective students are responsible for being thoroughly familiar with the rules, regulations, and degree requirements of the Graduate School and of the academic departments. The Fogelman College of Business and Economics, the College of Education and the Herff College of Engineering have additional college degree requirements. For infofmation regarding specific degree program requirements and courses available, click on the appropriate links below. Click here for a complete listing of all degree program contacts including web pages, telephone numbers and e-mail addresses COLLEGE OF ARTS and SCIENCES Anthropology Bioinformatics Biological Sciences Center for Earthquake Research and Information Chemistry Computer Science Earth Sciences English Foreign Languages and Literature History Mathematical Sciences Philosophy Physics and Material Science Political Science Psychology Sociology School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy City and Regional Planning Criminology and Criminal Justice Public Administration Social Work Graduate Certificate Programs African American Literature Bioinformatics Cognitive Science Geographic Information Systems Information Assurance Local Government Management Museum Studies Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership Teaching English as a Second Language Women's and Gender Studies FOGELMAN COLLEGE OF BUSINESS and ECONOMICS School of Accountancy Business Information Technology Economics Finance Management Marketing and Supply Chain Management Graduate Certificate Programs Business Information Assurance Business Intelligence and Analytics Business Project Management Software Testing COLLEGE OF COMMUNICATION and FINE ARTS Architecture Art Communication Journalism Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Theatre and Dance Graduate Certificate Programs Artist Diploma in Music Entrepreneurial Journalism COLLEGE OF EDUCATION Counseling, Educational Psychology and Research Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Leadership Graduate Certificate Programs Autism Studies Career and College Counseling Community College Teaching and Leadership Disabilities Studies Instructional Design and Technology Literacy Leadership and Coaching Qualitative Studies in Education Quantitative Studies in Educational Research STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) Teacher Leadership Teaching in Diverse School Populations Urban Education HERfF COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Biomedical Engineering Civil Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Engineering Technology Mechanical Engineering Graduate Certificate Programs Applied Lean Leadership Image and Signal Processing Packaging Engineering LOEWENBERG SCHOOL OF NURSING Graduate Certificate Programs Family Nurse Practitioner Healthcare Informatics Leadership Nursing Administration Nursing Education Nursing Informatics SCHOOL OF COMMUNICATION SCIENCES AND DISORDERS SCHOOL OF HEALTH STUDIES SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH Health Administration Public Health Graduate Certificate Programs Population Health UNIVERSITY COLLEGE Liberal Studies Professional Studies Graduate Certificate Programs Liberal Studies Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/1/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .