#http://www.memphis.edu/financialaid/undergraduate/aidprog1.php
Aid Programs - Financial Aid - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Financial Aid Undergraduate Graduate Law Scholarships Student Employment Undergraduate When to Apply How to Apply Aid Programs Eligibility Study Abroad National Student Exchange New Student Orientation Home Financial Aid Undergraduate Aid Programs Aid Programs - Undergraduate Students Once financial aid eligibility is determined, the Financial Aid Office offers students a Financial Aid Package which is posted on their myMemphis account. It may be a possible combination of grants, loans, scholarships, and employment - to meet as much of the student's need as possible. Enrolled hours, residency classification, cumulative grade point average, and other financial assistance already received will affect the amount and type of financial aid students can receive to meet their financial need. Grants Federal Pell Grant A non-repayable, federally funded program for undergraduate students pursuing a first Bachelor's degree. Awards vary in amount each year and are based on financial need and hours of enrollment. Pell Grant is awarded based on full-time status but will be adjusted and disbursed based on actual hours enrolled. Students receiving full time Pell Grant awards for the fall and spring semesters will have no remaining eligibility for summer. Effective for the 2012-2013 Award Year, the duration of a student's eligibility to receive a Federal Pell Grant will be limited to 12 semesters, or until a bachelor's degree is earned, whichever comes first. This limitation includes the percentage of Federal Pell Grant the student has received from all post-secondary institutions, for a maximum of 600%. For example: Students who enroll full-time during the fall and spring semesters will receive 100% of their Pell Grant eligibility. Students can receive 12 semesters (or 600%) of Pell Grant based on full time enrollment. Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (SEOG) A non-repayable, federally funded, university-based program for undergraduate students pursuing a first Bachelor's degree. Priority consideration is given to early applicants who are pell eligible, demonstrate the most financial need and have the lowest Expected Family Contribution (EFC) on the Student Aid Report. Tennessee Student Assistance Corporation ( TSAC ) A non-repayable state grant program available to undergraduate Tennessee residents pursuing a first Bachelor's degree. This award is contingent upon Pell Grant eligibility, state funding and early submission of the FAFSA. To receive priority award consideration, complete a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) on line by March 1st. A separate letter will be mailed from the state agency regarding program eligibility. Loans Subsidized Stafford Loan A variable interest loan available to degree seeking students enrolled at least half-time, based on financial need. The interest rate changes every July 1st and is paid by the government while the students are attending school. Repayment of principal and interest begins 6 months after enrollment ceases to be at least half-time. The current interest rate on this loan is 4.29% . Unsubsidized Stafford Loan A variable interest loan available to degree seeking students enrolled at least half-time, not based on financial need. Eligibility for the subsidized loan must be determined before an unsubsidized loan can be considered. The interest rate changes every July 1st and will be charged from the time the loan is disbursed until it is paid in full. The interest can be paid while the student is still in school. Repayment of principal and interest begins 6 months after enrollment ceases to be at least half-time. The current interest rate on this loan is 4.29% . MAXIMUM LOAN LIMITS for an ACADEMIC YEAR: Undergraduate Academic Year Loan Limits Base LoanSub/Unsub AddlUnsub Extended LoanUnsub only* Total Loan* Freshman (0-29 hrs) $3,500 $2,000 $4,000 $9,500 Sophomore (30-59 hrs) $4,500 $2,000 $4,000 $10,500 Junior/Senior (60+ hrs) $5,500 $2,000 $5,000 $12,500 Undergraduate Aggregate Loan Limits Base Loan Base + Extended $31,000 $57,500 *available to students classified as independent for financial aid purposes only NOTE: Borrowing the maximum amount for Fall and Spring leave zero eligibility for Summer at the same grade level. The amounts given above are the maximum yearly amounts you can borrow in both subsidized and unsubsidized loans, singly or in combination. However, you cannot borrow more than your cost of attendance minus other aid for which you are eligible. This means you may receive less than the annual maximum amounts. Loans are awarded per academic year and students are not eligible to receive more than half a year's limit in one semester. For example a freshman student may not receive more than $1,750 in Subsidized Loans (half of $3,500) during one semester. Monitor your loan history on the National Student Loan Data System here . Federal Direct Parent Loan for Undergraduate Students (PLUS) This program allows the parent with a good credit history to borrow to pay the cost of education for a dependent undergraduate student enrolled at least half-time. The yearly limit is equal to the student's cost of attendance minus any other financial assistance expected or received. The current interest rate for PLUS loans is fixed at 6.84%. There is no grace period for this loans. Interest begins to accumulate at the time the first disbursement is made. Repayment of both principal and interest will begin 60 days after the full loan amount has been disbursed. Parents can apply for the Parent PLUS loan on-line at studentloans.gov . Federal Perkins Loan A low-interest loan for degree seeking students with exceptional financial need. This program is federally funded and administered by the university. Priority is given to early applicants with a 2.5 cumulative grade point average (GPA), enrolled at least half time. Repayment begins 9 months after enrollment ceases to be at least half-time. Work Programs Federal Work Study and Regular Student Employment For more information, you may view the Student Employment web site. State Programs Tennessee Student Assistance Corporation (TSAC) For more information, visit the TSAC web site. Scholarships For more information, you may view the Scholarships Office web site. Alternative Loans Private loans are an option for students (and their parents) who do not show financial aid eligibility for other types of financial aid, or who need additional funds to meet educational expenses. Most private alternative loans require a credit check. Many of these alternative loan programs also look at what financial aid you are already receiving for that particular period. Other financial aid assistance is deducted from the cost of attendance (as determined by the institution) before aid eligibility is determined for other programs. The following link includes the names and contact information of lenders frequently used by students. Partial list of Alternative Loan Lenders NOTE: Our office does NOT endorse any particular lender. This information is only provided for your convenience and can change without notice. You should request current information directly from the lender or company offering the program. IMPORTANT NOTICES : The Federal Tax Reform Act of 1986 significantly changed the tax status of scholarships, fellowships, and grants you receive from the university. Prior to the Act, they were generally not subject to income tax. Since then scholarship, fellowship, and grant amounts exceeding tuition, fees, and course-related books, supplies, and equipment have become taxable. Financial assistance received from other sources includes vocational rehabilitation benefits, veteran's benefits, outside scholarships, employee fee waivers, teacher/child tuition discounts, graduate assistant fee waivers and any other assistance. All outside aid amounts must be considered in determining total aid eligibility. Undergraduate When to Apply How to Apply Aid Programs Eligibility Study Abroad National Student Exchange New Student Orientation Financial Aid Forms Check your myMemphis account for missing documents. Financial Aid Checklist Some things you need to know to receive financial aid Frequently Asked Questions Some of the most common financial aid questions Links of Interest Some important links to get you started Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/11/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .