#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/undergraduate/licensure.php
Licensure Program - Social Work - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Social Work About Undergraduate Graduate People Research Resources Institute Undergraduate About the Bachelor of Arts in Social Work Handbook Program Outcomes School Social Work Licensure Program DCS Tuition Assistance &amp; Certification Programs FAQs Become a Social Work Major Brochure Program Requirements Information Form Academics Degree Planning Sheet Course Sequence Semester Schedules Academic Advising Humanities Requirement Field Field Handbook Field Agencies Field Forms Field Powerpoint Phi Alpha Honor Society Student Social Work Organization (SSWO) UofM Undergraduate Catalog Access UofM Appointment Plus Virtual Career Center Home Social Work Undergraduate Licensure Program BA School Social Work Licensure Program Requirements View a slideshow detailing the UofM School Social Work Licensure Program. Admissions Requirements In addition to the admissions requirements for the University of Memphis, students seeking the school social work license must meet admissions requirements of the social work major and the school social work licensure program. The criteria for admission into the BA program in social work are: Completion of an application for admission to the social work major Personal goal statement A critical thinking essay Additional criteria for admission into the school social work licensure are: Current undergraduate GPA of 3.0 or higher. A copy of passing scores for all portions of the PRAXIS CORE examination The PRAXIS CORE test can be waived IF the student has an ACT score of 22 or above or a combined score of 1020 or above on the SAT Complete the Teacher Education Program (TEP) application: 3. Background check via College of Education, Health, &amp; Human Sciences 4. Interview at the University of Memphis College of Education Curriculum BA students will meet all requirements for Tennessee School Social Work Licensure through the completion of three courses (SWRK 4937: School Social Work, SPED 2000: Foundation/Exceptional Learn, and SPED 3803: Classroom/Behavior Management) and field placement (SWRK 4830-31). Descriptions of the three courses are provided below. Click here to view the typical four year sequence of courses leading to both the BA in social work and the school social work license. SWRK 4937: School Social Work Overview of school social work including public education system from the national, state, and local levels; examination of range of practice and policy issues related to delivery of social work services in school settings. Special emphasis on understanding current federal and state laws as they relate to practice with school-age children and their families. PREREQUISITE: SWRK 2010, 2911, and 3920. SPED 2000: Foundation/Exceptional Learn Current research and practices concerning physical, cognitive, emotional, and social characteristics of individuals with exceptionalities; special education laws, educational needs, cultural diversity, inclusion in general education classroom. Field Hours: 4 SPED 3803: Classroom/Behavior Management Advanced strategies for managing social behaviors of learners with mild to severe disabilities; techniques for eliminating maladaptive behaviors, managing aggressive and antisocial students, and teaching appropriate social skills. Field Hours: 8. PREREQUISITE: SPED 2000. SWRK 4830/4831: Field Placement BA students are required to complete a minimum of 460 clock hours of field placement in an assigned agency (180 hours in SWRK 4830 and 280 hours in SWRK 4831). Students complete these hours by enrolling in SWRK 4830-4831: Field Instruction Social Work I-II and SWRK 4840-4841: Integrative Field Seminar I-II. BA students must apply and be accepted into the Teacher Education Program. In addition, they must obtain a background check and at least 1 million/3 million dollars professional liability insurance via a reputable organization or company that provides coverage for social workers prior to placement in the field. Students should also review the student field manual and handbook for information regarding the requirements for liability insurance coverage prior to placement in the field. Students completing the Tennessee School Social Work License will complete their field agency in a school district or in an appropriate agency setting to get school experience. Table 2 outlines the link between Tennessee School Social Work licensure standards, field placement course requirements, and field placement assessments. Undergraduate About the Bachelor of Arts in Social Work Handbook Program Outcomes School Social Work Licensure Program DCS Tuition Assistance &amp; Certification Programs FAQs Become a Social Work Major Brochure Program Requirements Information Form Academics Degree Planning Sheet Course Sequence Semester Schedules Academic Advising Humanities Requirement Field Field Handbook Field Agencies Field Forms Field Powerpoint Phi Alpha Honor Society Student Social Work Organization (SSWO) UofM Undergraduate Catalog Access UofM Appointment Plus Virtual Career Center Why Study Social Work? The study of social work prepares you for a career in a strong growth area News Stay connected with current and pressing social work information to students, staff, faculty, and field instructors. SUAPP The Department of Social Work is a part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy. Contact Us Main office and location information. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/14/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .