#http://www.memphis.edu/careerservices/students-alumni/resume.php
Resume/Cover Letter - Career Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Career Services About Students/Alumni Faculty/Staff Employers Students &amp; Alumni Appointments ACAD Career Unit Explore Career and Majors Going on to Graduate School Resumes Example Resumes Resumes/CVs Resume Builder Cover Letter Checklist Interview Tips Professional Dress Women Men Internships What is an Internship? Academic Internship Search Jobs/Internships TigerLink Tiger Success Institute Introduction Apply Workshop Information Home Career Services Student &amp; Alumni Resume/Cover Letter Resume/Cover Letter The sole purpose of a resume is to get you an interview!!! A resume is an advertisement of the skills and qualifications you have to offer employers. It may be your first contact with an employer, whether applying for an internship, co-op or job opportunity. Research indicates that most hiring managers make an initial decision about a resume within about 15-30 seconds. Therefore, your resume must be well-written, concise, extremely organized, and easy to read in order to be effective. There is no set guideline on how to organize your resume. Ideally, you want to organize your resume so that whatever is most prevalent is listed first. Therefore, you should customize your resume for the reader. It is a good idea to have different versions of your resume depending on the job type/industry that you want to target. General Tips: Highlight skills and achievements instead of a duty list. Use appropriate fonts (Times, Arial, Calibri, Garamond, Georgia, etc.) Font size should be between 10-12 point. Stay consistent with your formatting throughout. Quantify your descriptions and years of experience. Commonly used sections of a Resume may include: Education Skills Activities/Involvement Civic Engagement Relevant Coursework/Projects Experience Honors/Awards CURRICULUM VITAE (CV) A CV is a longer more detailed version of a resume. Most people think they need a CV when in reality a resume is sufficient. Therefore, the first thing you need to consider is do you even need a CV. CVs are mostly used in academic, scientific, or research environments and are commonly 3-10 pages in length. Other industries may not care or will not spend time reading a full CV. Check with your colleagues in your department and/or a Career Advisor before starting as different disciplines have different requirements. Commonly used sections of a CV may include: Publications Peer Reviewed Presentations Professional Committees Served Scholarly Professional Memberships Research Courses Taught References (varies on discipline) Students &amp; Alumni Appointments ACAD Career Unit Explore Career and Majors Going on to Graduate School Resumes Example Resumes Resumes/CVs Resume Builder Cover Letter Checklist Interview Tips Professional Dress Women Men Internships What is an Internship? Academic Internship Search Jobs/Internships TigerLink Tiger Success Institute Introduction Apply Workshop Information Upcoming Events &amp; Opportunities Visit this page periodically to see what might be of interest to you. Presentation Request We develop presentations tailored for your class, organization or program. C.A.R.E.S Institute Get academic support and services to improve your academic success! Contact Us Here is how to reach our department Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .