#http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/resources/hb_studentrecords.php
Parent Handbook: Student Records - Parent &amp; Family Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parent &amp; Family Services About Events Communication Resources Get Involved Give Back Visit UofM Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Home Parent &amp; Family Services Resources Parent Handbook: Student Records Parent Handbook: Student Records Student Privacy and FERPA One of the most significant changes a parent experiences in sending a son or daughter to college is the difference in privacy standards for educational records at the University. The University of Memphis is subject to a federal law called the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (also called FERPA or the Buckley Amendment [U.S. Public Law 93-579]) that sets privacy standards for student educational records and requires institutions to publish a compliance statement, including a statement of related institutional policies. The University of Memphis policies are online and on the Registrar’s website. Reference to this policy often raises questions from parents, and we have provided the answers to many of these questions below. What is FERPA (Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act)? FERPA guarantees individuals’ rights to the access of their academic record. This federal law also provides guidelines as to third party access and the appropriate security of the education record. FERPA stipulates that students have the right to: Inspect and review their academic record Control disclosure Request amendment to the educational record if an error is recorded Does FERPA give me the right to see the education records of my student in college? When your student turns 18 or enters college at any age all rights under FERPA transfer to the student. How can I see my student’s grades? Ask your student to show you his or her grades on the myMemphis portal . If this is not practical, ask your student to complete a Consent to Release Education Record form ; this completed form allows the Registrar to release a copy of his/her grades to you. If your student is unwilling to complete this form, then, as a last resort, obtain, complete, and sign a Parent Request for Disclosure of Education Record Information and Certification of Dependent Status form . The University is required to notify your student in writing that you have requested and will be given a copy of the record, so you may want to give your student some advance warning. For more information, please click here . Why do I have limited access to my student’s college records especially when I am paying the bills? Under FERPA, the access rights that parents and legal guardians had in the elementary and secondary school setting are transferred to students once a student has turned eighteen or is attending any post-secondary educational institution. Parents can be given access to their son or daughter’s records if the student authorizes the access in writing or in connection with the student’s application for, or receipt of, financial aid. Where can I find out more information about FERPA? FERPA is enforced by the U.S. Department of Education. The Department maintains a FERPA website , with links to FERPA regulations. Enrollment Verification Do you need verification that you student is enrolled for medical insurance, car insurance, or anything else? Students can request enrollment verification from the National Student Clearinghouse or from the Registrar’s office . For complete details on how to request enrollment verification, please Degree or Enrollment Verification . Office of the Registrar 901.678.2810 Directory Information Directory Information is personal student data that can be published in a Campus Telephone Directory or used to identify a student to outside agencies. Directory Information is treated in a professional manner by the University and its employees. The following pieces of student information are considered Directory Information: Student Name Student U-Number (University ID number) Address Telephone Listing E-mail address Major field of study Earned Hours Date of Birth Participation in officially recognized Activities and Sports Weight and Height - ** Members of Athletic Teams Only ** Dates of Attendance Degrees and Awards received Most recent Previous Education Agency or Institution attended Current Enrollment Status: (1) Number of Hours currently enrolled in, (2) Status (Part-time or Full-time), and (3) Classification (Freshman, Sophomore, etc.) Students have the right to prevent their Directory Information from being published in the Campus Directory or released to outside agencies. If a student elects to suppress his or her Directory Information, ALL of it will be suppressed. We cannot release some information and suppress some as well. For information on how to suppress directory information, please Release of Student Record . Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Contact Us Got questions, comments, or concerns? We're here to help! Parent &amp; Family E-news Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News. Parent &amp; Family Handbook Learn about opportunities and services available to students. In the Now: September FAQs What you need to know this month to help you help your student Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .