#http://www.memphis.edu/vpbf/pdf/fy1415_park_annualreport.pdf
Dr. Stephanie S. Ivey Director Intermodal Freight Transportation Institute 108B Engineering Science Bldg. Memphis, TN 38152 -3180 Office: Fax: 901.678.3286 901.678.3026 MEMORANDUM TO: David Zettergren, Vice President Business and Finance FROM: Stephanie Ivey, Chair, Traffic and Parking Standing Committee SUBJECT: Annual Report, Traffic and Parking Standing Committee DATE: September 23, 2015 The Traffic and Parking Standing Committee met twice during the 2014 -15 fiscal year. On February 12, 2015, the first meeting was held with fourteen members in attendance. David Zettergren introduced the charge of the committee and thanked the committee members for their service. He specifically mentioned a desire that the committee be more active this year, and noted that the committee is an advisory group responsible for comprehensive traffic and parking, and safety related issues. He describe several key projects, including the current parking study, the Gather on Southern, and a parking garage in consideration to replace spaces lost during construction of the planned new Rec Center and Land Bridge. He also indicated a need for feedback on the new parkway design for Central Avenue, and also asked that the committee consider culture change s needed on the campus to encourage more diverse transportation mode usage to and from campus. The committee also discussed possible marketing strategies for changing perceptions regarding active transportation, potential for tying in the Blue Line with M ATA, possible mechanisms for funding additional bike racks around campus to support the Tiger Bike program, and the PARCS that will upgrade technology at the gated priority/resident lots on campus. In addition, a regular monthly schedule was set and volun teers were identified for the Parking Appeals sub -committee . Finally, members recommended that a City of Memphis representative be invited to attend the next committee meeting to answer questions brought up by committee members. The second meeting was he ld on May 7, 2015. This meeting focused on updates regarding the new Rec Center, the RFP for the PARCS, the Park Avenue Project, and Alumni Lot 13. The committee also discussed a speed study that Stephanie Ivey’s students were conducting on Central Avenu e. The equipment malfunctioned and data was not recorded, so the study must be repeated. Additionally, Ivey shared that addresses are available for all faculty, staff, and students at the U of M, and that a GIS map could be created to determine the numbe r living within key buffers where walking or biking are viable modes of transportation to the U of M. These analyses will be conducted during the summer of 2015 and presented to the committee at the next meeting. Additionally, Stephen Edwards (Traffic En gineering, City of Memphis) attended the meeting and answered numerous questions of the committee. In particular, the committee was interested in a speed limit reduction on Central Avenue. Mr. Edwards explained that there is no way to do this with curren t ordinances. The committee also asked if the City of Mem phis would be wiling to let the U of M meter and enforce along the streets that directly touch U of M property. Mr. Edwards indicated that while the city is probably not willing to allow an institu tion to implement enforcement, it may allow meter collection with a profit sharing agreement. Such an agreement would have to be brought before the city council. He also indicated that if the U of M would like to convert these streets to University stree ts, the city would probably allow this. The Parking Appeals Subcommittee met 12 times within the fiscal year, and reviewed a total of 265 faculty/staff appeals. Of this total, 110 were denied, 142 upheld, 12 contingencies were issued, and 1 fine was reduced. The Committee expresses its appreciation to Parking Services staff for their excellent support and cooperation throughout the year.