#http://www.memphis.edu/economics/programs/ma_economics.php
MA Economics - ECON - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Economics Welcome Programs Faculty Research News FCBE About Programs Faculty Research News Home ECON Programs MA Economics MA Economics Admission | MA Handbook | Course Requirements The MA in Economics at the University of Memphis has two tracks, an applied track and an academic track, to meet each student's particular interests. Whichever program you choose, we have a proven track record of placing graduates in some of the best PhD programs and top corporations in the world. Program objectives are: (1) achievement of a solid foundation knowledge in economic theory and economic analysis; (2) acquisition of an advanced level of knowledge in either applied economics or academic economics; (3) acquisition of the quantitative skills to effectively address research problems and the ability to make significant professional contributions as a professional economist or within a functional area of business; and (4) ability to compete effectively for professional positions in the private or public sectors If you are interested in pursuing a PhD degree in Economics, the MA program at he University of Memphis provides an outstanding foundation in economic theory and econometrics that opens doors at the top PhD programs in the world. If you are interested in taking your degree into the business world, the combination of economic theory and analytical skills make you extremely marketable. Unlike narrower, more technical master's degrees, an MA in Economics prepares students for positions requiring a broad, general knowledge of the business environment. An MA in Economics has one of the highest salaries of any master's degrees. Contact Information: Graduate Programs Office Fogelman College of Business and Economics The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.3721 Fax: 901.678.4705 Email: fcbegp@memphis.edu Advisor: Dr. Andrew Hussey Phone: 901.678.1487 Email: ajhussey@memphis.edu A. Program Admission Students should have both a satisfactory grade point average and an acceptable performance on the Graduate Record Examination (or GMAT). In addition, they should have successfully completed the following undergraduate courses prior to admission: Intermediate Micro Economic Theory, Intermediate Macro Economic Theory, and two semesters of Business Statistics (or one semester of the equivalent graduate-level course). B. Program Prerequisites Students should have successfully completed or complete ECON 3310, Microeconomic Theory; ECON 3320, Macroeconomic Theory; ISDS 2710 and 3711, Business Statistics I and II (ISDS 7020 is an acceptable substitute for ISDS 2710 and 3711); ECON 6810 or equivalent. C. Program Requirements Each candidate has the choice of taking a written, comprehensive examination or writing a thesis at the end of course work. Regardless of which option is chosen, 15 hours of the student’s course work must be devoted to the following: ECON 7120, 7300, 7310, 7320, and 7810. Examination Option: Each candidate must complete a minimum of 33 semester hours of graduate course work, exclusive of MA program prerequisite courses and MBA Essential Foundations courses. The 33 hours must include a minimum of 21 hours of approved course work in Economics. The remaining 12 hours, with approval of the department graduate advisor, may be taken in collateral courses. At least 24 hours must be in courses designated for graduate students (7000 level or above). Each candidate must pass a written examination in microeconomic theory and macroeconomic theory. A maximum of two attempts within a year of the first attempt is permitted. Thesis Option: Each candidate must complete a minimum of 30 semester hours of graduate course work, exclusive of MA program prerequisite courses, MBA Essential Foundations courses, and Thesis Hours. The 30 hours must include a minimum of 18 hours of approved course work in Economics. The remaining 12 hours, with approval of the department graduate advisor, may be taken in collateral courses. At least 21 hours must be in courses designated for graduate students (7000 level or above). Each student will register for at least 3 hours (and not more than 6 hours), write and defend a thesis under the guidance of a faculty committee. A student who fails to complete the thesis after having registered for the maximum degree credit allowable must register for thesis credit each academic semester until the thesis is completed. NOTE: Students electing to write a thesis should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. D. Accelerated B.A./M.A. Program in Economics This program permits outstanding undergraduate majors in Business Economics to begin coursework for the Master’s of Economics during their senior year. Students interested in this accelerated program are encouraged to begin planning for it early in their undergraduate careers, in consultation with both their undergraduate advisor and the M.A. Coordinator of the Department of Economics. To be accepted into the Accelerated B.B.A./M.A. Program, students must have a grade point average of at least 3.25, and must submit two letters of reference and a copy of their transcript to the Department of Economics. Each applicant will also complete an interview with the M.A. Coordinator of the Department. After being accepted into the program, the student will work closely with his or her undergraduate advisor and the M.A. Coordinator in order to develop a carefully tailored program of study so that he or she can begin work on the M.A. as they complete the B.A. Students must also apply to the Graduate School for “combination status,” which allows them to take graduate courses in Economics. To continue the Program once they have completed the B.B.A, students must apply for full admission into the Graduate School and into the M.A. Program in Economics. Up to 9 hours of graduate coursework may be applied to both the B.A. and the M.A. degrees in Economics. Academic Placements of Recent MA Graduates London School of Economics Washington University Boston University McGill University Cornell University Florida State University Columbia University University of Texas, Austin University of Toronto Corporate Placements of Recent MA Graduates Federal Express Blue Cross/Blue Shield Investment banking houses, domestic and international First Tennessee and other national and regional banks About Programs Faculty Research News Undergraduate Programs Learn about our undergraduate offerings! Seminars Keep up with the latest Economic academic research in our upcoming seminars. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .