#http://www.memphis.edu/financialaid/eligibility.php
Eligibility - Financial Aid - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Financial Aid Undergraduate Graduate Law Scholarships Student Employment Home Financial Aid Eligibility Eligibility Determining Financial Need Satisfactory Academic Progress Repeated Coursework Aid Adjustments Return of Funds and Repayment Verification Determining Financial Need When applying for federal student aid, the information provided on the FAFSA is used in a formula, established by the U.S. Congress that calculates an Expected Family Contribution (EFC). The EFC is used in an equation to determine need-based eligibility. Cost of Attendance (as determined by the institution) - Expected Family Contribution - Other Financial Assistance * = Financial Need * Other financial assistance includes: any scholarships, fee waivers, vocational rehabilitation benefits, veterans benefits, etc. Cost of Attendance An estimate of expenses for education such as tuition, fees, room, board, books, supplies, and other related expenses. Please note that the figures listed on this website are estimates for the 2015-16 aid year and subject to change. Expected Family Contribution (EFC) The amount expected to be available for your educational expenses. The EFC is calculated from income, asset information, household size, and number in college. If you are dependent, the EFC is a student and parent contribution. If you are independent, the EFC is a student (and/or spouse) contribution. 2015-2016 Cost of Attendance – UNDERGRADUATE IN-STATE FEES TUITION ROOM/ BOARD BOOKS TRAVEL MISC. TOTAL with Parent $8,903 $3,660 $1,415 $2,484 $1,983 $18,445 On/Off Campus $8,903 $9,061 $1,415 $2,484 $1,983 $23,846 On Lambuth Campus $8,903 $8,360 $1,415 $2,484 $1,983 $23,145 250-R FEES TUITION ROOM/ BOARD BOOKS TRAVEL MISC. TOTAL with Parent $14,399 $3,660 $1,415 $2,484 $1,983 $24,941 On/Off Campus $14,399 $9,061 $1,415 $2,484 $1,983 $29,342 On Lambuth Campus $14,399 $8,360 $1,415 $2,484 $1,983 $28,641 OUT-OF-STATE FEES TUITION ROOM/ BOARD BOOKS TRAVEL MISC. TOTAL with Parent $21,615 $3,660 $1,415 $2,484 $1,983 $30,157 On/Off Campus $21,615 $9,061 $1,415 $2,484 $1,983 $36,449 On Lambuth Campus $21,615 $8,360 $1,415 $2,484 $1,983 $35,857 *Based on 12 undergraduate hours. Students who are takings less than 12 credit hours will have their tuition/fees component adjusted. NOTE: Students who are classified as out-of-state for residency purposes, but are charged the eRate for tuition/fees, will have their Cost of Attendance (COA) revised to reflect the reduced eRate tuition/fee charges. 2015-2016 Cost of Attendance – GRADUATE IN-STATE FEES TUITION ROOM/ BOARD BOOKS TRAVEL MISC. TOTAL with Parent $10,211 $3,660 $1,415 $2,484 $3,202 $20,972 On/Off Campus $10,211 $9,764 $1,415 $2,484 $3,202 $27,076 250-R FEES TUITION ROOM/ BOARD BOOKS TRAVEL MISC. TOTAL with Parent $15,161 $3,660 $1,415 $2,484 $3,202 $25,922 On/Off Campus $15,161 $9,764 $1,415 $2,484 $3,202 $32,026 OUT-OF-STATE FEES TUITION ROOM/ BOARD BOOKS TRAVEL MISC. TOTAL with Parent $18,995 $3,660 $1,415 $2,484 $3,202 $29,756 On/Off Campus $18,995 $9,764 $1,415 $2,484 $3,202 $35,860 *Based on 9 graduate hours. Students who are takings less than 9 graduate credit hours will have their tuition/fees component adjusted. 2015-2016 Cost of Attendance – LAW IN-STATE FEES TUITION ROOM/ BOARD BOOKS TRAVEL MISC. TOTAL with Parent $18,267 $3,660 $1,969 $2,484 $3,202 $29,582 On/Off Campus $18,267 $9,764 $1,969 $2,484 $3,202 $35,686 OUT-OF-STATE FEES TUITION ROOM/ BOARD BOOKS TRAVEL MISC. TOTAL with Parent $26,127 $3,660 $1,969 $2,484 $3,202 $37,442 On/Off Campus $26,127 $9,764 $1,969 $2,484 $3,202 $43,546 *Based on full-time law hours. Students who are takings less than full-time graduate credit hours will have their tuition/fees component adjusted. Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy All students who receive federal or state financial aid must be enrolled in a program leading to a degree, an eligible non-degree program, or an eligible certificate program. Students must meet federal and institutional standards for academic progress in order to establish and retain aid eligibility. Students receiving athletic or other university administered awards must also meet the satisfactory academic progress standards that have been established by the awarding entity. Academic progress for federal and state financial aid programs is based on three measures: Cumulative Grade Point Average, Pace of Progression based on credit hours completed compared to attempted, and a Maximum Timeframe for degree completion. While the Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy is a minimum requirement to maintain financial aid eligibility, students are encouraged to work closely with academic advisors and college personnel to achieve their educational goals. Good financial planning includes selecting meaningful coursework, completing all registered classes with satisfactory grades, and seeking your degree in a timely manner. The following describes the university's standards for each of these three measures, and how these standards are reviewed: Cumulative Grade-Point Average The following standards apply to the combined transfer/university cumulative GPA. Students must meet the following minimums which are consistent with the University's standard as published in the respective bulletin. Quality hours are those credits used to compute the grade-point average including grades of A, B, C, D, or F and transfer credits with a grade of incomplete. The first attempt of a course that is repeated is excluded from the quality hour computation. Undergraduate Students - must maintain a 2.0 cumulative GPA to receive federal and/or state student aid. Graduate Students - must maintain a 3.0 cumulative GPA to receive loans or work-study. Law Students - must maintain a 2.0 cumulative GPA to receive loans or work-study. Pace of Progression All students are required to complete a minimum of 67% of all credit hours attempted. Courses with a grade of "D" or better count as completed. Credit hours attempted include audits, incompletes, withdrawals, and repeated or failed classes. Maximum Timeframe Undergraduates - The maximum timeframe for the completion of an undergraduate degree is limited by federal regulations to 150% of the published length of the degree program. Most undergraduate programs at The University of Memphis are 120 hours. The maximum number of hours during which a student is eligible to receive financial aid is 180. The 180 hours includes transfer hours and all attempted hours. A student is failing the maximum timeframe standard when they reach the point that it is mathematically impossible for them to graduate before attempting 180 credit hours. Credit hours attempted include audits, incompletes, withdrawals, and repeated or failed classes. Up to 30 hours of required remedial/ developmental courses are excluded from the maximum timeframe. Graduate Students - The maximum timeframe is determined by the degree completion requirements listed for the student's academic program in the Graduate Bulletin. Law Students - The maximum timeframe is determined by the degree completion requirements listed in the Cecil C. Humphrey's School of Law Bulletin. Review of Progress Standards GPA - is reviewed upon admission as a transfer or readmitted student, and annually at the end of each spring semester. Pace of Progression - is reviewed annually at the end of each spring semester. Timeframe - is reviewed annually at the end of each spring semester. NOTE: If a student is on financial aid probation after having an appeal approved, SAP measurements will be reviewed at the end of each semester. Notification/Appeals After the end of each spring semester, the academic records of all students who are receiving or applying for federal financial aid will be reviewed. Students whose financial aid eligibility is suspended as a result of failure to meet one or more of the standards of satisfactory academic progress will be notified by the Student Financial Aid Office. Each student must complete a Satisfactory Academic Progress Appeal on the basis of: student injury or illness, death of a relative, or other special circumstances. Each student's appeal must: 1) explain why satisfactory academic progress has been failed; 2) include documentation of the aforementioned explanation; and 3)indicate what has changed in the student's situation that will allow the student to make satisfactory academic progress at the student's next evaluation. In addition, if a student is appealing due to maximum timeframe, the student must also submit a Graduation Plan signed by the student's graduation analyst. According to federal regulations, financial aid appeals can only be approved for one semester at a time. If the appeal is approved, the student will be asked to accept and follow an academic plan designed by the Financial Aid Office. After the plan is accepted, the student will be placed on academic probation, and granted an approved academic progress standing for one semester. The academic plan is designed to help students maintain financial aid eligibility while they bring their grades &amp;/or completetion rate back up to good standing. The student's grades and completion rate will be reviewed at the end of each semester. Once they have returned to good standing (see parts 1-3 above), they will no longer be on financial aid probation. If they have not regained good standing, but met their academic plan for the semester, financial aid probation will be extended for one more semester with no need for a new appeal. However, students who are also failing the maximum timeframe standard will also be required to meet the graduation date listed on their graduation plan or submit a new appeal explaining why they were unable to do so, and include an updated graduation plan that has been approved by their graduation analyst. Students who do not meet their academic plan, and do not return to good standing are no longer eligible to receive financial aid. Students are then responsible for paying their own fees and are not eligible for aid until the standards of satisfactory progress are met. Students have the following options to maintain or restore financial aid eligibility: Improve academic performance enough to meet the standards, Successfully follow the academic plan as instructed and developed by the Student Financial Aid Office, or Submit additional satisfactory academic progress appeals for different extenuating circumstances. Deadline for submitting an appeal: The deadline to submit an appeal to receive aid for a semester is the same as the posted last day to withdraw from full-semester classes for that semester, which can be found at Registrar Calendars . A student may have a maximum of three (3) satisfactory academic progress appeals during their academic career at the University of Memphis. Financial Aid Fresh Start An Academic Fresh Start cannot be treated as a Financial Aid fresh start. Students accepted under the Academic Fresh Start program may still be required to submit a Satisfactory Academic Progress Appeal to regain their financial aid eligibility. A student's cumulative GPA and completion rate - including classes that have been excluded by the Academic Fresh Start - will be taken into account when determining financial aid eligibility based on the standards explained above. Aid Affected by SAP The following is a list of financial aid programs affected when a student is not meeting the Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) policy: Federal Pell Grant Federal Supplemental Opportunity Grant (SEOG) Federal TEACH Grant Federal Work Study Federal Perkins Loan Federal Direct Loans (subsidized &amp; unsubsidized) Federal Direct PLUS Loan Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Tennessee Student Assistance Award (TSAA) Other aid as may be determined by the Financial Aid Office Repeated Coursework Effective July 1, 2011, there is a rule change regarding federal financial aid and payment of repeated coursework. If you have taken and passed a course (with a grade of D or higher), federal financial aid will now only pay for you to repeat this course one time. Should you decide to repeat a course for a second (or more) time, federal financial aid will not cover the cost of that course. If you are currently enrolled in a repeated course for the second time, and you passed the course the first time you enrolled in it, your financial aid may be revised. You should consider dropping the course and adding another course you have not taken before. If you have any questions regarding this policy, please contact the financial aid office at 901-678-4825, or e-mail us at financialaid@memphis.edu . Aid Adjustments Your financial aid award will be adjusted for the following reasons: Enrollment status is verified on the last day of the drop/add period for each semester. If you drop or add classes by this date, your Pell Grant and/or TSAC awards will be adjusted accordingly. Professors report non-attendance for any classes. Your aid, including student loans, will be adjusted if you do not attend any one of your classes (assuming the credit hours adjustment actually changes your aid eligibility). Receiving Pell Grant or Loans at two different colleges during the same academic year, which exceeds the total maximum limit for that year. Any aid may be adjusted, if you totally withdraw before the federal deadline to withdraw and you may have to repay the aid you did not earn. See more detailed information under "Return of Funds and Repayment". Lottery awards are adjusted based on hours enrolled on the census date for each semester. Direct Student loans and/or other student financial aid awards may be adjusted to prevent over award situations due to the receipt of either a fee discount, tuition aid, outside scholarship, change in residency classification, or similar assistance. Direct Student Loans will also be be adjusted or cancelled based on a check of half-time status at the beginning of the loan period. Return of Funds and Repayment RETURN OF FUNDS: Return of Title IV Aid - The Higher Education Amendments of 1998 established the concept that financial aid must be earned through class attendance. When you totally withdraw from all classes, The Student Financial Aid Office must calculate the amount of financial aid you have earned prior to withdrawing. Any Title IV aid received in excess of the earned amount is considered unearned. Unearned aid must be returned to the respective Federal Aid program(s). Return of Aid Programs - Unearned aid amounts are to be returned to Title IV financial aid programs: Federal Direct Student Loan Programs (unsubsidized then subsidized); Federal Perkins Loan Program; Federal Direct PLUS loans; Federal Pell Grant Program; Federal SEOG Program; any other programs funded by Title IV including the Tennessee Student Assistance Program; other federal, state, private or institutional aid programs. Any amount remaining after the applicable programs have been fully repaid is returned to the student. A 100% credit for the term affected will be given in the event of student death. The Return of Title IV Aid calculation will be based on the official notification of the date of death. Earned Aid - A student has not earned 100% of their financial aid until s/he has attended more than 60% of the term. If a financial aid recipient totally withdraws on or before the 60% point of the term, there is a portion of the aid that has not been earned. The percentage of earned aid is determined by taking the number of days attended divided by the total number of days in the term. For example: Days Student Attended Prior to Withdrawing 37 divided by Total Days in the Semester 100 Percentage of Earned Aid 37% Unearned Aid - The percentage of unearned aid is calculated by subtracting the earned percentage from 100%. Using the previous example: 100% Aid Percentage 100% subtract Percentage of Earned Aid 37% Percentage of Unearned Aid 63% Return of Unearned Aid Amount - Once the earned and unearned aid percentages are determined, the next step is to calculate the dollar amount of total unearned aid that must be returned. The Return of Unearned Aid Amount is determined by multiplying the unearned aid percentage by the total of all Title IV aid disbursed or eligible to be disbursed. Continuing with the previous example, the unearned aid percentage of 63% would be multiplied by the student's total aid disbursed: Percentage of Unearned Aid 63% multiplied by Total Aid Received $2345.00 Unearned Aid Amount $1477.35 Return of Fees - The unearned aid portion is repaid by both the student and the school. The school can use any fee adjustment refund generated by the withdrawal to pay the portion it owes back. However, depending on the time of withdrawal, the student may also be responsible for repaying a portion of his/her that had been previously paid by the financial aid. In almost every instance, the fee refund will be less than the total Return of Unearned Aid Amount. As a result, when a student withdraws, a balance will be created for the difference between the fee refund and the Return of Unearned Aid Amount. The student is responsible for paying this balance . Keeping with the above example, after a student completes 37 days of the term, s/he is eligible for a 25% fee refund per the Bursar's Office published calendar. This means 25% of the student's fees are credited to the student's account, which can affect the student's portion of aid owed back to the University: Unearned Aid Amount $1477.35 subtract 25% Fee Refund (*example) *$586.30 Difference on Account $891.05 Post-Withdrawal Disbursements - If a student totally withdraws from a semester and receives less federal aid than the amount earned, then the student may be eligible for a post-withdrawal disbursement. The student must have met all of the conditions for a late disbursement prior to withdrawing. Grant funds will automatically be applied towards outstanding charges created by the withdrawal. Loan funds will not be applied until written confirmation is received from the borrower. If no confirmation is received, the loan is cancelled. Non-Title IV Aid - Refunds applicable to non-Title IV funds will be distributed to the respective aid accounts in the same proportion as the aid awarded. Dropping All Classes - To avoid financial penalties and aid adjustments, make sure you drop all classes prior to the beginning of the semester. If you drop all classes prior to the start of the semester, you will not be considered a student for that semester and, thus, not entitled to received any form of financial aid. Your aid will be cancelled and returned to the appropriate program(s). If you drop all your classes close to the beginning of the semester, and you have already received financial aid, you will be required to repay the entire amount of aid disbursed to you. Once the semester starts on the first day, you have begun to earn aid and a Return of Title IV Aid calculation must be completed. Failing ALL Classes - If you fail all of your classes in a semester, you may be subject to a Return of Title IV Aid calculation. If you have "earned" at least one of your "F"s (i.e., attended class at least one course until the end of the term and received an F for poor performance), then no calculation is required. However, if you received all Fs because you stopped attending or never attended courses prior to the 60% point in the semester, then a R2T4 calculation is required. This is considered an unofficial withdrawal and the 50% point of the semester will be used as the withdrawal date. An account balance will be created if the calculation results in the return of financial aid. Future Aid Eligibility - Withdrawing may affect your eligibility to receive financial aid in subsequent terms. Upon withdrawal, you should notify the Student Financial Aid Office when you plan to return so we can make necessary adjustments to you financial aid award. Students should also review the Satisfactory Academic Progress requirements. REPAYMENT When a student receives financial aid and one of the following situations occur: (a) the student is issued a contingency fee assessment that is not honored by the fund agency involved; (b) the student receives an overpayment due to non-eligibility or administrative error; (c) the student withdraws before the start of classes or fails to pay tuition/maintenance fees, the student must repay the total amount of aid received or overpaid. Verification Verification is a federally mandated review process. The Student Financial Aid Office is required to obtain and compare information submitted on tax documents, the verification form and the FAFSA. Students selected for verification must complete the University of Memphis verification form and submit all required documents. Verification can be a lengthy process, therefore we strongly recommend that students and their families submit the form and all requested documents as soon as they are requested. Students should check their myMemphis account OFTEN for missing requirements. Any differences between information entered on the verification form or other requested documents and the FAFSA will result in a new determination of financial need. This new determination of financial need may alter the student's financial aid eligibility. Students who will be completing verification for the 2015-2016 academic year should submit copies of 2014 federal tax transcript when available . Due to new federal regulations (which began during the 2012-2013 academic year) the Student Financial Aid Office cannot accept copies of tax returns for verification. It is now required to submit copies of official IRS Tax Return Transcripts (and an IRS Tax Account Transcript if you filed an amended tax return). These can be ordered online at or by calling 1-800-908-9946. Financial Aid Forms Check your myMemphis account for missing documents. Financial Aid Checklist Some things you need to know to receive financial aid Frequently Asked Questions Some of the most common financial aid questions Links of Interest Some important links to get you started Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .