#http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/resources/hb_studentlife.php
Parent Handbook: Student Life - Parent &amp; Family Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parent &amp; Family Services About Events Communication Resources Get Involved Give Back Visit UofM Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Home Parent &amp; Family Services Resources Parent Handbook: Student Life Parent Handbook: Student Life Living On and Off Campus Living On Campus On-campus housing is defined as housing that is owned by the University. These include residence halls, apartments, and family housing. The Office of Residence Life is available to help you and your son or daughter. Residence Life has information for students and their families about residence hall life, including information about what to bring to campus, dining options, and how to get involved in residence hall activities. On-campus living is a unique experience for college students and we hope that your student will choose to have this opportunity. Important Dates for On-Campus Residents The first six weeks of school are crucial for students to become connected with the Memphis community. As a parent, you can help by encouraging your student to get involved on campus. Most traditional residence halls close for school breaks, including fall break, spring break, and winter break. There are some that do stay open. Students are restricted from going back into the dorms during winter break, with some exceptions. Eligible students can apply for housing for the next year in February. Residence Life 901.678.2295 Resident Meal Plans Students who reside in a residence hall are not required to purchase a meal plan . Resident plans are purchased through room and board charge and vary by residence hall. Students can select a 5 or 10 meals a week plan that include declining balance dollars that can be used at any dining facility and some vending machines. Tiger Dining 901.678.2295 Living Off Campus “Off-campus” housing is housing that is not owned by the University. This includes apartments, houses, and fraternity houses. Students living off campus should research housing options very carefully to see what they receive and what is expected from every option. Students interested in living off campus can find resources with Adult and Commuter Student Services , who manage a list of off campus housing options in the area. There is also an off campus housing information fair held in March of each year. When searching for an off campus residence, you and your student should keep the following in mind: Safety must be an important priority. Encourage your student to choose safe living, even if it costs a little more. The University of Memphis does not inspect or endorse any off campus rental properties. Students have to carefully check out potential housemates and thoroughly inspect rental property before signing a lease. Adult and Commuter Student Services 901.678.2644 Off Campus Housing Commuter Meal Plans Meal plans tailored specifically to commuter students are available through Dining Services . Students may also choose any of the other available meal plans. Students may also add funds to their Tiger Funds account to use at dining locations or in vending machines. Dining Services 901.678.2112 Parking and Transportation Parking on campus General parking is available on campus and a permit is included in the cost of tuition. Students will receive a permit in the mail prior to their first semester of classes. If registered before the deadline, students will receive subsequent permit stickers for the remaining semesters that they are enrolled. If students would like to park in priority lots, including the parking garages, they will need to apply for a priority parking permit with the Parking Services office. These spots are limited and students should apply as soon as possible for these permits. There is an extra charge for the priority parking permit. Parking Services 901.678.2212 Nighttime Transportation Students that are on campus at night and who do not feel comfortable walking to their car or dorm can call on Tiger Escort. Tiger Escort will pick up students all around campus and escort them to their car or to their residence hall. Normal hours for the Fall and Spring semesters are from 6:00 pm to 2:00 am seven days a week. Tiger Escort Program 901.678.4663 (901.678.HOME) Activities, Clubs, and Recreation Research highlights the positive influence of involvement outside the classroom on ways in which students grow and develop. Students who are involved in experiences outside of the classroom perform better in academics and in life. UofM offers numerous ways for students to experience leadership, diversity, community spirit, and Memphis pride. Registered Student Organizations The University of Memphis currently has approximately 170 R egistered S tudent O rganizations (RSOs) and the numbers are growing every day. RSOs offer programs, events, leadership opportunities, and activities that reflect the diverse nature of our student body. Whether your student is looking for a group that supports athletics or the arts, community service or cultural awareness, religious or political activism, the Greek community or academic scholarship, there's an RSO for him or her. Student Leadership and Involvement Office Student Activities and Community Service 901.678.2035 Fraternity &amp; Sorority Life About 10% of undergraduate population at the University are a member of a fraternity or sorority. These organizations recruit new members in the fall and spring semesters. The Fraternity &amp; Sorority Affairs office oversees all Greek organizations on campus and is ready to answer student and parent questions. Fraternity &amp; Sorority Affairs 901.678.8679 Campus Recreation The Office of Campus Recreation and Intramural Services (CRIS) manages the Student Recreation and Fitness Center and offers a variety of recreation activities. Students can participate in Fitness and Aerobic classes or sign up for personal training sessions. Intramural and club sports are offered in both the Fall and Spring semesters. CRIS also offers students the opportunity to rent outdoor gear if they would like to enjoy the great outdoors, but are unable to store their personal equipment in their dorm or apartment. Campus Recreation and Intramural Services 901.678.2811 Religious Life Most religious faiths and traditions have representatives in the Memphis area. Many of the groups maintain student centers and campus ministries concerned with ethical and spiritual issues as they touch on students’ lives and on the life of the University. For a full list of organizations on campus, please visit the religious life website. International Students The International Student Office supports the international population at The University of Memphis by providing advice on immigration matters, employment, taxation, cultural adjustment, and other practical issues. We are also responsible for maintaining University compliance with the United States Student and Exchange Visitor System (SEVIS) which reports directly to the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement office. Additionally, we conduct an international student orientation each semester, coordinate insurance information, and assist student groups in the development of International Night and other cultural functions. International Student Office 901.678.4271 Cultural Opportunities The University of Memphis is home to the Art Museum at the University of Memphis that showcases its permanent collection, world renowned artists, students, and faculty work. The permanent collection includes a one of a kind collection of Egyptian antiquities, a gift of more than 180 pieces of Sub-Saharan African art from Martha and Robert Fogelman, more than 1,000 works on paper, as well as various cultural artifacts, including two suits of Japanese armor, flintlock dueling pistols, Ethiopian spear points, ancient Greco-Roman glass, and Navaho textiles. The museum is free to students. The Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music at the University of Memphis is internationally recognized for artistic and academic excellence. Students and faculty are highly involved in the presentation of a variety of work. For a calendar of events of performances, please visit the School of Music website . The Department of Theatre and Dance also performs their work on a regular basis for students, faculty, staff and the community. All performances are held in the Communication and Fine Arts building on the main campus. For the current season, please visit the Department of Theatre and Dance website . There are also a variety of cultural opportunities in the city of Memphis. We hope that you will enjoy the city’s offerings when you come to visit your son or daughter as we believe that there is something for everyone in our city. Art Museum at the University of Memphis 901.678.5118 Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music 901.678.2541 Department of Theatre and Dance 901.678.2523 On-Campus Employment Many parents and students find that having a part-time job while in college not only provides students with much-needed spending money, but also helps them to budget their time better, and thus use their available study time more effectively. Throughout the University and the community there are many different types of employment opportunities for your son or daughter. Just about every office and department within the University, from Admissions to Psychology, hires students each year. In addition, students will find many jobs in the residence halls as resident advisors or desk clerks. Often, employed students are able to work around class and final exam schedules. For some jobs, students must be participants in the Federal Work-Study program (a type of financial aid). For others, students do not need to be participants in the Work-Study program. Most jobs are posted through the Financial Aid Office Student Employment Listings , but some are not. If there is an office or department that your son or daughter would like to work for, but nothing is 'posted,' encourage him or her to call or stop by the office to inquire. Regular Student Positions Federal Work Study Student Positions Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Contact Us Got questions, comments, or concerns? We're here to help! Parent &amp; Family E-news Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News. Parent &amp; Family Handbook Learn about opportunities and services available to students. In the Now: September FAQs What you need to know this month to help you help your student Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .