#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/news/archive_flash/2014jul/
July 2014 Issue - FCBE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty &amp; Staff Research News News News Current News News Archive Events College Publications Fogelman Focus Fogelman Flash Memo: Memphis Fogelman Features Department Newsletters Home FCBE News dean's message We've listened. We've heard you. And, we've taken your advice! A few years ago we launched this Fogelman Flash e-newsletter. Since that time, we've sent two email blasts each semester with a brief recap of what happened throughout the year. After much appreciated feedback, it appeared that this platform was well received. However, we got one piece of advice over and over – to make the Flash timelier, more frequent, and more hard-hitting. Well, we've listened to you and adapted our message structure. Read more &gt;&gt; Michael Cook Inducted as the FCBE's 13th Investor in Excellence On Wednesday, July 9th, Michael Cook, founder and CEO of SouthernSun Asset Management firm, was inducted as Fogelman College's 13th Investor in Excellence. The ceremony was held at the College in the first floor lobby. Nearly 50 people were in attendance to celebrate this recognition, including U of M President, Dr. David Rudd and three of 2013's inducted Investors in Excellence – Bill Watkins, co-founder of Watkins Uiberall, Larry Papasan, former President of MLGW and Smith &amp; Nephew, and Laurie Tucker, former SVP of FedEx Services and co-founder/CSO of Calade Partners. Many other major Memphis business moguls including Charlie McVean, Chairman and CEO of McVean Trading &amp; Investments LLC, Rudi Scheidt, former Chairman of Hohenberg Brothers Co., and Mike Cross, Senior Analyst and Principle of SouthernSun, were also present. Read more &gt;&gt; Major Faculty Changes and Promotions Announced at Fogelman We are excited to announce several major faculty changes and promotions. Dr. Lloyd Brooks, has been named Interim Associate Dean for Academic Programs. Dr. Brooks previously served as the Chair of the MIS Department. He is also holds the Jennifer and Michael Cook Professorship of Exemplary Leadership. Dr. Brooks' leadership was essential to the recent renewal of the College's prestigious AACSB accreditation. We are also pleased to announce that Dr. Robin Poston, Associate Professor, has been appointed Interim Chair of the MIS Department. Dr. Poston's excellent leadership and research records make her well-deserving of this position. Throughout the past year, she served as the Chair of the College's Strategic Planning Committee and was also the recipient of Ron Hart Emerging Leadership Award. She was also recently announced as the new recipient of the Papasan Family Professorship for Exemplary Leadership. Please join us in congratulating these professors on their significant career transitions. U.S. News Ranks FCBE at the University of Memphis in Top 25 for Online Graduate Business Programs for Veterans For the second consecutive year, U.S. News &amp; World Report has ranked the Fogelman College of Business and Economics (FCBE) at the University of Memphis in its Top 25 in online graduate business programs for veterans. Fogelman College is ranked 24th for online graduate business programs. Other universities on the list include Arizona State, James Madison, Washington State, Nebraska and Alabama. Read more &gt;&gt; Fogelman MBA Students Declared Tournament Champions A team of full-time MBA students from the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics won first place in the Next Play Venture Tournament recently. Next Play is a national competition hosted by Davidson College in North Carolina for student-led business plans with a focus on making the sports industry more sustainable. Ten university teams from across the country participated in the competition, including Duke, Wisconsin-Madison, North Carolina-Chapel Hill, Texas-Austin and Arizona State. Read more &gt;&gt; FCBE's MIS Program Honored as one of the Top 50 Programs in the U.S. The Fogelman College's MIS Department was recently ranked as one of the 50 best MIS programs in the nation by the Association of Information Systems (AIS). FCBE's MIS department captured the 46th spot on this prestigious list. These ranking are only released every four years. The schools considered for the high honor were required to meet certain criteria, including having a substantial Information Systems-centric major at the undergraduate or graduate level and being located in the United States. Furthermore, the schools selected for this list had to exhibit excellence in the U.S. News and World Report rankings, employ faculty who have published AIS journals, and support active AIS student chapters. Read more &gt;&gt; Dr. McInish's Paper Set For Publication in the Journal of Financial Economics Dr. Thomas McInish, professor of the Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate and the holder of the Chair of Excellence, is set to have his paper, "Trading Rules, Competition for Order Flow and Market Fragmentation," published in the Journal of Financial Economics, which is among the top journals of its discipline. In this paper, McInish discusses the competition taking place between traditional stock exchanges and new 'dark' trading venues while noting an important difference in regulatory treatment. A regression discontinuity design is implemented that was used to find how spread constraints have significantly weakened the exchanges' competitiveness. The paper demonstrates how a probability of subsequent order execution will increase as a result of more orders migrating to dark pools, which raises liquidity. The ability to circumvent time priority of displayed limit orders is listed as one of the causes of the rapid rise in U. S. equity market fragmentation, as well. Read more &gt;&gt; News News Current News News Archive Events College Publications Fogelman Focus Fogelman Flash Memo: Memphis Fogelman Features Department Newsletters Apply to our Undergraduate Programs &gt; Enroll at the university and engage yourself with our six different departments, student enrichment, and more. Apply to our Masters Programs &gt; Earn your degree with one of our six MBA tracks or with one of our four specialized Masters programs! Apply to our Doctoral Programs &gt; Interested in a Ph.D.? Start the journey towards your Ph.D. here! Contact Us &gt; Have questions? Call or email today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .