#http://www.memphis.edu/leadership/emerging/prospective-overview.php
Prospective Emerging Leaders - UofM LEAD - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UofM LEAD Emerging Leaders TLI Conferences Professional Development Social Change Emerging Leaders Current Emerging Leaders Overview 1st Year Obligations 2nd Year Obligations 3rd Year Obligations 4th Year Obligations Prospective Emerging Leaders Overview Application 1st Year Obligations Families Frequently Asked Questions Brochure Home UofM LEAD Emerging Leaders Prospective Emerging Leaders Prospective Emerging Leaders Our Students Who are Emerging Leaders? If you look at the student featured at the top of this page, you can learn a little more about who they are. Emerging Leaders are active and engaged students who are learning a great deal about themselves and leadership. They come from over 100 high schools and 17 states. They are leading on our campus and in the community. They are proud University of Memphis Tigers! Our Philosophy The Emerging Leaders Scholarship Program will be centralized around the Leadership Identity Development (LID) Model. Components of the program will have an academically-strengthened foundation in research, but its outcomes will be intended toward application supporting the UofM LEAD Mission and Goals and progressing students through stages of the LID. Emerging Leaders graduates will view leadership as a relational process that may be enhanced by formal position but is not contingent upon it. Graduates will act upon the opportunity to exercise leadership from anywhere within a team or community. They will utilize integrity, communication, critical thought, and comprehensive knowledge of leadership research as their tools to enhance relationships, commit to lifelong personal development, and contribute to positive social change. Our Process Students who are selected for Emerging Leaders commit to four years of learning responsibilities, in addition to their receipt of the scholarship. As long as those responsibilities are fulfilled, students continue to progress with the program. Our brochure gives a useful overview of the value of Emerging Leaders, but each year of the program has specifics outcomes and activities to support them. Take a look at the Freshman Obligations document to get a better picture of the program's 1st year. Similar documents for the 2nd-4th years can be found on the Current Emerging Leaders section. In addition to these responsibilities to aid your personal and professional development, Emerging Leaders are offered a network of supporters. First-year students live together in a residence hall community and have an upperclassman to assist as a mentor. Second and third-year student are offered unique opportunities to connect with local companies and non-profits. Throughout the experience, students are supported by program staff through formal meetings and more casual interactions. Your Next Step A new application for each year's selection process is made available by October 1st. The deadline to submit your application is February 1st is you are starting college as a first-time, first-semester freshman the following fall. Due to application volume, we are unable to commit to communicating when an application has been received so you may want to contact us a week after mailing the application to confirm its arrival. Once the application deadline passes, program staff reviews all applications, scoring them according to a rubric that considers academics, high school involvement, community service, essay responses, and recommendations. This process typically takes 2-3 weeks. Invitations are then extended for up to 150 applicants to complete an interview. Commonly occurring in the last week of February or early March, interviews take place over a 3 day period. Final selections for the 50 available spaces in the program are communicated in late March. If you have questions about Emerging Leaders or the selection process, contact Kay Barkoh at kbarkoh@memphs.edu or 901.678.5707 . Emerging Leaders Current Emerging Leaders Overview 1st Year Obligations 2nd Year Obligations 3rd Year Obligations 4th Year Obligations Prospective Emerging Leaders Overview Application 1st Year Obligations Families Frequently Asked Questions Brochure Contact UofM LEAD Find out more about the variety of opportunities we offer you! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .