#http://www.memphis.edu/libraries/lis/staff.php
Staff - Libraries - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Libraries About Services Resources Instruction Special Collections Technology Home Libraries LIS Staff Dr. John Evans, Head of Systems Department Professor jevans@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-4485 Office: McWherter Library: RM 306 Responsibilities: General supervision of all department activities, network and strategic planning, liaison with library departments for technical support and planning and maintains communication and interaction with the University in general and in particular with Information Technology Services (ITS). Rachel Scott, Integrated Library Systems Librarian rescott3@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-3896 Office: McWherter Library: RM 308 Responsibilities: Professor Scott joined the University Libraries faculty in 2012 as a Catalog Librarian and in August 2014 she became the Integrated Library Systems Librarian. Her primary responsibility is the operation and maintenance of the Sierra integrated library system and Encore Duet discovery layer. Her work requires the utilization of her cataloging expertise as she builds, refines, tests, and expands the bibliographic database. Her research interests include music bibliography, information literacy, and digital library services. Cody Behles, Emerging Technologies Librarian cbehles@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-4558 Office: McWherter Library: RM 331 Responsibilities: Monitoring the latest technological developments and considering the relevance and usefulness for delivering the services and resources of the University Libraries. Provide advice and consultation to depar tments and/or individuals on maximizing the use of new and emerging technologies to accomplish the work of the library. His efforts focus on identifying and implementing strategies to maximize the effective use of available technology to meet the needs of library users and library personnel. Yolanda Hawkins, Local Technical Support Provider I yhawkins@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-3745 Office: McWherter Library: RM 309 Responsibilities: Provide a full range of technical and client support services to the faculty and staff of the University Libraries; also addresses technical and support needs of University students and faculty and the broader library user population both on and off campus; provide technical training for the faculty and staff of the University Libraries. James Hudson, Local Technical Support Provider I jehudson@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-1634 Office: McWherter Library: RM 309 Responsibilities: Answers questions from users and vendors regarding system operations generally and with special application to the use of operation of the Libraries’ OnLine Catalog System. Executes programs and performs specialized tasks via remote computer terminal to maintain and improve system performance for the OnLine Catalog System. Provides technical support for the daily operation of the OnLine Catalog System for the University Libraries and its libraries partners. Participates in meetings and training sessions of the campus-wide LTSP group and cooperates with the Information Systems Division’s Client Services Department. My Library Account Review your library account for due dates and more. Interlibrary Loan Request books, articles, and other research materials from other libraries. Reserve space Group study and presentation spaces available in the library. Ask-a-Librarian Got a question? Got a problem? Ask Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .