#http://www.memphis.edu/finance/programs/msba_program.php
M.S.B.A. - Concentration in Finance - FIR - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate Welcome Programs Faculty &amp; Staff Research News &amp; Events FCBE Programs Programs Degree Programs Undergraduate Finance Course Catalog Undergraduate Finance Course Descriptions Business Finance Concentration Real Estate Concentration Banking and Financial Services Concentration Professional Real Estate Certificate Finance Master’s Program Ph.D. Program Faculty &amp; Staff Research Seminars Faculty Publications News &amp; Events Cook Analytics &amp; Trading Lab Contact Us Home FIR Programs M.S.B.A. - Concentration in Finance Master of Science in Business Administration Concentration in Finance The Master of Science in Business Administration program with a concentration in Finance is a 33-hour program that usually can be completed within 2 years. The program offers the most in depth exploration of Finance and related topics of any of the Master's programs offered at the University of Memphis. Prominent features of the program are the wide range of Finance electives, evening classes that are convenient to students working in the Memphis area, and small class sizes. Overview of the M.S. Program The Master of Science (MS) programs give students more emphasis in the specialty area than traditional MBA programs. The Fogelman College offers the M.S.B.A. degree with concentration in Management Information Systems (MIS) and Finance. The MSBA program in Finance assumes a prequalification in Calculus. Students entering with a bachelor's degree in Business or Engineering are usually able to enter the program without further study. The MSBA program in Finance consists of 6 hours from the Business Administration core, 12 hours from the FIR (Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate) core, and 15 hours of elective courses. Under normal circumstances, a student would take 21-27 of the 33 hours from the FIR (Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate) area. Applying to the M.S.B.A. Program in Finance Prospective students applying to the Finance program should submit an online application and pay the relevant application fee ($35 for domestic students and $60 for international students). They should also send transcripts of the undergraduate work and test scores on either the GRE or GMAT to the Graduate Admissions Office. Candidates may get more information about taking the GRE on campus by going to Once applications are complete, the Graduate Admissions Office forwards them to the Graduate Programs Office and the FIR department for review. For US students, the Fall application deadline is July 1. The Spring application deadline is December 1. Well-qualified undergraduate students who are in their final year of the BBA program in the Fogelman College may benefit from the Accelerated BBA/MSBA Finance program. Interested students must make an appointment with the MSBA Finance program coordinator prior to registering for their final semester of undergraduate work. These students must hold an undergraduate GPA of 3.25 or above. Once accepted in the accelerated program, students may register for up to 9 hours of graduate courses that may count for both undergraduate and graduate credit. As a result, students would be able to earn the MSBA Finance degree with only 24 hours beyond the BBA degree. Another benefit of the accelerated program is that prospective graduate students can avoid the GRE/GMAT requirement. Program Course Requirements Business Administration Core (6 Hours) FIR 7155 Global Financial Management MIS 7650 Information Systems in the Global Enterprise FIR Core (12 Hours) FIR 7410 Investment Theory and Portfolio Management FIR 7810 Advanced Financial Management FIR 7840 Quantitative Applications for Finance ACCT 7080 Financial and Managerial Accounting for Managers Concentration Electives (15 Hours) Students must take 15 hours of elective courses. At least 9 hours must come from List A. The remaining 6 hours may come from List A, List B, or related courses approved by the coordinator. List A (9-15 Hours) FIR 7170 Multinational Corporate Finance FIR 7171 International Financial Markets FIR 7173 Financial Analysis and Certifications FIR 7302 Real Estate Development and Sustainability FIR 7350 Real Estate Finance and Investment Analysis FIR 7648 Entrepreneurial Finance FIR 7721 Financial Derivatives List B (0-6 Hours) FIR 6310 Real Estate Law FIR 6331 Stock Portfolio Management FIR 6340 Real Estate Appraisal FIR 6610 Cases in Managerial Finance FIR 6720 Management of Financial Institutions FIR 6770 Security Analysis and Portfolio Management FIR 6810 Property and Liability Insurance FIR 6820 Life and Health Insurance FIR 7301 Contemporary Real Estate Theory and Practice FIR 7911 Internship in Finance, Insurance &amp; Real Estate ACCT 7140 Financial Statement Analysis ECON 7100 Economics for the Global Executive ECON 7310 Advanced Microeconomics ECON 7313 Economics of Risk and Uncertainty Comprehensive Exam During the last semester of study, each student must pass an oral comprehensive exam. Internships Students in the MSBA program may obtain up to 3 hours of academic credit for finance-related internships. In order to get 3 hours of credit for FIR 4911, they must work a minimum of 150 hours in the internship and work with a faculty member to show evidence of their accomplishments in the internship. A major advantage of studying in the Memphis area is the wide variety of employers who are able to offer work and internship opportunities for students. The Professional Development Center (PDC) located in the Fogelman College offers a wide variety of support services to students who need assistance finding internships and career opportunities in the areas of finance and business. Students turn to the PDC for help in improving their resumes, strategies to enhance their interviewing and networking skills, and seminars to learn how to be successful in the corporate world. Finance students benefit from the professional development series Futures in Finance aimed specifically at students seeking a career in Finance. Experiential Learning MSBA students seeking further practical learning in the investments area may benefit from participating in the CFA Institute Research Challenge and the TVA Investment Challenge. In the CFA Institute Research Challenge, selected students compete against students from other universities to show evidence of superior ability in analyzing a single company. In the TVA Investment Challenge, students invest actual money held by the Tennessee Valley Authority with the goal of earning a higher return than teams from other regional universities. In both competitions, University of Memphis students have at their disposal the resources of the Cook Analytics and Trading Lab, which is located on the ground floor of the Fogelman Classroom Building. This new facility greatly enhances students' abilities to conduct financial research and to acquire cutting-edge research skills that employers seek. Further Information The coordinator of the MSBA program in Finance is Mr. Leslie Mathis. Prospective students can request more information by e-mailing him at lmathis@memphis.edu . Programs Programs Degree Programs Undergraduate Finance Course Catalog Undergraduate Finance Course Descriptions Business Finance Concentration Real Estate Concentration Banking and Financial Services Concentration Professional Real Estate Certificate Finance Master’s Program Ph.D. Program Faculty &amp; Staff Research Seminars Faculty Publications News &amp; Events Cook Analytics &amp; Trading Lab Contact Us Cook Analytics &amp; Trading Lab Learn more about The Cook Analytics &amp; Trading Lab and its innovative tools to help supplement traditional classroom teaching! Seminars Keep up with the latest and greatest of the Finance industry and academic research in our upcoming seminars. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .