#http://www.memphis.edu/law/admissions/scholarships.php
Scholarships - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Admissions Guide to Applying Comprehensive Application Guide LSAT Prep Transfer Information TN Inst. for PreLaw (TIP) Part-Time Program Schedule a Visit Academic Curriculum Apply Now Check Application Status Stats, Facts and Profile Profile and Stats Overview Class Profile Factsheet 2015 Viewbook Request a Viewbook Bragging Points Tuition, Scholarships, Financial Aid Overview of Costs Tuition Information Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition Payment Academic Curriculum Experiential Learning Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Recruiting Calendar Ask a Current Student Schedule a Visit Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) FAQ List Application Information LSAT Notification and Acceptance Curriculum Childcare City of Memphis Admitted Student Information Home School of Law Admissions Scholarships SCHOLARSHIPS A number of scholarships are available to entering students, including academic merit awards, diversity awards, and awards for students with demonstrated financial need. Some scholarship awards are based on the information in the application, while others require additional information. If you are interested in being considered for first-year scholarships, you are encouraged to complete the optional application questions and submit any necessary information. Scholarship award letters are usually sent by April 1. Through state appropriations and the generous donations of law school alumni and friends, over $600,000 in scholarship assistance has traditionally been awarded in previous academic years. Awards range from $1,000 to full in-state tuition. First-Year Scholarships A variety of scholarship awards are available for first-year students, including academic merit awards, diversity awards, and awards for students with demonstrated financial need. Many of these scholarships are renewable for subsequent years. Some scholarship awards are based on the information in the application for admission, while others require additional information. If you are interested in being considered for first-year scholarships, you are encouraged to complete the optional application questions and submit any necessary information. Scholarship recipients will be notified as soon as possible of their scholarship award, usually by April 1. In order to ensure full consideration for scholarships, applicants should submit their application for admission by the March 15 deadline. Rising Second- and Third-Year Student Scholarships (Returning Law Students Only) Returning law students interested in applying for law scholarships have multiple options. The deadline to apply for all scholarships is March 23, 2015. There are three different online scholarship applications. Please review the various types of funding and make sure you complete the appropriate online application(s). When applying for a scholarship, students are advised to pay close attention to each of the mandatory application requirements. LAW SERVICE SCHOLARSHIPS Humphreys Fellowship, Herff, and Faculty Emeritus Renewal Applicants Students interested in being a Humphreys Fellow should use this online application. Students who currently hold a Humphreys Fellowship, Faculty Emeritus or Herff Scholarship must complete this online application as well. You will be required to upload a current resume and answer a number of questions about your law interests. In order to be fully considered for one of these scholarships, you must consent to releasing your law school grade point average and class rank to the faculty and staff. Students who failure to upload a resume and give consent will not receive consideration. Please name your resume by your last name with uploading. DEADLINE is FEBRUARY 25, 2015. MEMPHIS ACCESS AND DIVERSITY SCHOLARSHIPS Students interested in being considered for Memphis Access and Diversity Scholarships need to complete the online application by March 23, 2015. You will be asked to complete a 250 word essay on how you contribute to Diversity at the University of Memphis School of Law. Please review the Diversity criteria prior to applying. Current Memphis Access and Diversity recipients must complete this online application as well. Candidates will be notified in June after Spring 2015 grades and class rank have been released. No resume or letters of recommendation are required. DEADLINE: MARCH 23, 2015 OTHER LAW SCHOOL ENDOWED SCHOLARSHIPS – TIGER SCHOLARSHIP MANAGER There are a number of scholarships that are awarded to law students annually. These endowed scholarships require applicants to complete an online application. All scholarships require applicants to also upload a resume. Please save your resume document as your last name first, then first name before you upload it online (i.e. "Smith, John"). To access these scholarships, interested returning law students should follow the instruction below after accessing their myMemphis account. The deadline is MARCH 23, 2015. Other Law School Scholarships Go to your myMemphis account Click on "Account$" tab Sign in to your profile using Memphis credentials First page is "Your General Application" When completed please click on Blue "Finish &amp; Continue" button Your "recommended Opportunities" will be available for you based on your answers Detailed information on scholarship is available by clicking the "apply" button For further details regarding the scholarship process please refer to the PowerPoint presentation linked below. Returning Students Only - Scholarship Process Overview PowerPoint Scholarship List for First-Year Students Scholarship List for Returning Students Outside Scholarships A list of outside scholarships, criteria, award amounts, and deadlines are listed below. For more information on each scholarship, click the scholarship name for a full application. These scholarships are not administered by the University of Memphis School of Law. Also, please use the links at the bottom of the page to connect to scholarship search engines that may be helpful in finding alternative sources of school financing. Scholarship Amount Deadline The National Bar Association - Ben F. Jones Chapter Scholarship Unspecified October The Richard Linn American Inn of court Mark T. Banner Scholarship $5,000 November Donald W. Banner Diversity Scholarship $5,000 January Baker Hostetler Diversity Fellowship Program $0 - $25,000 October Constangy, Brooks and Smith, LLP $3,000 November 28 Scholarship Foundation of Santa Barbara Applications available here October 1 Unspecified January Richard D. Hailey AAJ Law Student Scholarship $1,000 May Harry A. Blackmun Scholarship Varies June Phi Kappa Phi Fellowship Varies April Phi Kappa Phi Love of Learning $500 June GP LSAT Prep Law Student Scholarship $1,000 January &amp; June Robert Masur Fellowship Competition $1,000 March Alia Herrera Memorial Scholarship $3,000 May Richard D. Hailey Law Student Scholarship $1,000 May Trial Advocacy Scholarship $2,500 May Mike Eidson Scholarship $5,000 May 1 Baker Donelson Diversity Scholarship $10,000 June Anne Schneider Chapter of Lawyers' Association for Women of Jackson, TN. Application requests should be addressed to: Mary Jo Middlebrooks, Middlebrooks &amp; Gray, P.A.P.O. Box 1085, Jackson, TN 38302 $1,500 September 10 Avon N. Williams &amp; Robert Lillard Law Scholarship $1,500 November 1 Howard Fox Memorial Scholarship Varies April 1 Salvi, Schostok, &amp; Pritchard P.C $5,000 March Charles R. Ullman &amp; Associates Varies April 15 DRI's Law Student Diversity Scholarship $10,000 April 19 American Association for Justice (AAJ) Law Student Scholarships Varies May 1 Trusp Young Lawyers Scholarship $1,000 Appelman Law Firm Criminal Defense Law Scholarship $1,000 Michigan Auto Law Diversity Scholarship $2,000 May 1 Federal Communications Bar Association Foundation $2,500-$10,000 April 1 Farzad Family Law Annual Scholarship $3,000 December 15 Step Ahead Scholarship Varies April 15 Davis Devin Livingston Scholarship $3,000 July 15 Appel Law Firm Scholarship $1,000 July 1 Bond &amp; Botes Financial Hardship Scholarship $2,000 July 16 Meinhart Smith &amp; Manning PLLC Law Scholarship $1,000 August 10 Luvera Law Firm Scholarship $2,000 August 10 Staver Law Group $2,000 November 15 Asian Heritage Law Scholarship $1,000 August 1 Injury Lawyer News Disability Scholarship $1,000 December 31 A Step Ahead Foundation Varies April 15 Access To Advocacy Award $5,000 May 31 The Cohen, Placitella, Roth Scholarship $2,500 May 31 Goodman Acker, P.C. Law Scholarship $1,000 December 1 Scholarship Search Engines FastWeb - StudentScholarshipSearch - FinAid - Admissions Guide to Applying Comprehensive Application Guide LSAT Prep Transfer Information TN Inst. for PreLaw (TIP) Part-Time Program Schedule a Visit Academic Curriculum Apply Now Check Application Status Stats, Facts and Profile Profile and Stats Overview Class Profile Factsheet 2015 Viewbook Request a Viewbook Bragging Points Tuition, Scholarships, Financial Aid Overview of Costs Tuition Information Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition Payment Academic Curriculum Experiential Learning Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Recruiting Calendar Ask a Current Student Schedule a Visit Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) FAQ List Application Information LSAT Notification and Acceptance Curriculum Childcare City of Memphis Admitted Student Information Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/15/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .