#http://www.memphis.edu/financialaid/studyabroad.php
Study Abroad - Financial Aid - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Financial Aid Undergraduate Graduate Law Scholarships Student Employment Home Financial Aid Study Abroad Study Abroad The University of Memphis has a number of study abroad programs offered during the academic year, some through the International Student Exchange program and other programs as listed on the STUDY ABROAD web site. If our university is sponsoring the study abroad program, students may apply for financial aid to cover expenses. Student Aid budgets are adjusted to offset the added program expenses. If you are interested in a study abroad program, you should contact the International Programs Office directly at 901-678-2814. If you find out about a study abroad program through your academic department, you should first contact the International Programs Office to make sure that they are aware of the program and that it is an approved program offered by The University of Memphis. There are a number of approved study abroad programs offered during the summer months. If you receive aid during the academic year (i.e. fall and spring), our office would have to consider what aid eligibility you may have remaining for the summer. If you are interested in a study abroad program for the summer, you should complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) , if you have not already applied for the academic year OR complete a Summer Update Form. You should indicate the particular study abroad program at the top of the Summer Update Form. Example: For summer 2015, you must complete the 2014-2015 FAFSA. If you must cover costs for a particular study abroad program before the standard fee payment period, you may request a Study Abroad Refund Anticipation Loan (no interest charged) until such time that your aid can be disbursed. When any aid can be disbursed, it will then be applied to the Study Abroad Loan and other program fees.. To receive financial aid for any STUDY ABROAD program (either during the academic year or summer), you must: be enrolled at least half-time. Law students are considered half-time during the summer ONLY with 3 law credit hours. have a Transfer Credit Request form on file with the Admissions Office be a U.S. citizen or eligible non-citizen be making satisfactory academic progress ( according to our policy ) not be in default on any student loan or owe a repayment on any grant have remaining aid eligibility (especially as it applies to summer) Students MUST transfer credits from their study abroad program back in a timely manner. Students who do not have foreign transcripts back to the University of Memphis within 2 semesters will have a graduation hold placed on their record. If you receive the HOPE Scholarship, please keep in mind that you are required to have all final transcripts sent to the school immediately after the semester ends. Your HOPE Scholarship will be cancelled for the upcoming semester and placed on hold until all final transcripts are received and evaluated for continuing eligibility. You may review the Study Abroad Office web site for information on study abroad scholarships. CONSORTIUM AGREEMENTS Occasionally students express a desire to study at another accredited American university. If you encounter a study abroad program that is not sponsored by our university, but is sponsored by another accredited American university, then you may still be able to receive financial aid to cover the costs. If you are interested in studying at another American university (even though you will be receiving your degree here), then your academic advisor must give written approval (via a Transfer Credit Request form) for you to take these classes. If you are a LAW student, the Dean of the Law School must give written approval for you to study at another American university. Once the necessary approval is given, a consortium agreement can be set up between the home institution (i.e. The University of Memphis) and the host institution (i.e. the other American university) that is sponsoring the program. The consortium agreement covers basic federal guidelines and specifies what aid you will be receiving to cover the costs for the program. The host institution also provides cost and budget information to the home institution. The agreement is signed by both institutions. FINAL WORD OF CAUTION: To be eligible to participate in a consortium agreement it is your responsibility to ensure that all paperwork has been properly completed and submitted PRIOR to the end of the drop/add period of the intended semester. If you have any questions about Financial Aid as it relates to Study Abroad, consortium agreements, refund anticipation loans, etc., please contact Joanna Darden in the Student Financial Aid Office at jpullis@memphis.edu . Financial Aid Forms Check your myMemphis account for missing documents. Financial Aid Checklist Some things you need to know to receive financial aid Frequently Asked Questions Some of the most common financial aid questions Links of Interest Some important links to get you started Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .