#http://www.memphis.edu/egypt/exhibit/
Exhibit - Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology About Location Teaching Staff Research Exhibition Events Resources Exhibit &amp; Collection Artifacts Collection access Home Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology Exhibition The Ancient Egyptian Collection As part of its mission of outreach and community education, as well as to support the research and teaching missions of University of Memphis, the Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology, (hereafter IEAA), maintains a collection of over fourteen hundred ancient Egyptian antiquities. These artifacts are housed in the Art Museum of the University of Memphis. Approximately 200 of those objects, most ranging in date from 3800 B.C.E. to 700 C.E., are on permanent exhibition in the Egyptian Gallery of the Art Museum of the University of Memphis. The Egyptian Gallery is currently CLOSED for HVAC renovations. We will reopen in Spring 2016. History of the Collection In 1975 a collection of forty-four (44) ancient Egyptian objects was obtained for the University of Memphis (then Memphis State University) from the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston through the generosity of Mr. E.H. Little, a prominent Memphis businessman. Since that time, and mostly through the generosity of private donors, the collection has grown steadily to its present size of over 1,400 objects. The collection spans the entire range of ancient Egyptian history and prehistory (ca. 100,000 B.C.E. through 700 C.E.). There are mummies, religious and funerary items, jewelry, sculpture, and objects from everyday life. From its inception, the collection has served as an important teaching resource for students and faculty at the University of Memphis and throughout the Mid-South region. Students in such diverse disciplines as art, anthropology, history, classics, art history and education make use of the collection during their coursework. As part of the Master's Program in Egyptology at the University of Memphis, students may choose an item from the collection as the subject of their Master's thesis. In addition, scholars from all over the world contact the IEAA regarding objects in the collection. Click here for additional information about the history of the IEAA. Exhibit of Egyptian Artifacts Approximately 200 ancient Egyptian objects from the permanent collection of the IEAA are on display in the Egyptian Gallery of the Art Museum of the University of Memphis. The museum is open to the public, free of charge, Monday through Saturday 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. The Art Museum is closed University holidays and between temporary exhibits. Location of the Museum &amp; Hours University of Memphis Campus Map Area of the Art Museum University of Memphis Parking Map The most frequent visitors to the Egyptian Gallery are students from public and private schools in the City of Memphis and Shelby county. School children from Mississippi and Arkansas are also drawn to Memphis to view the ancient Egyptian collection. View a sample of the ancient Egyptian artifacts in the IEAA collection. Find more information about the Art Museum of the University of Memphis. Collection Research and Access Policy Scholars and other individuals interested in obtaining access to the collection or images of objects in the collection should contact the Director or the Curator. For information about collection access and permission to reproduce images of collection materials, please review the Research and Reproduction policies . The links are given below. Obtaining access to the collection Photographic permissions, rights and reproductions, etc. Exhibit &amp; Collection Artifacts Collection access Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .