#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/cas/psych.php
Psychology - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Psychology Psychology Department of Psychology Psychology Major (B.A.) Program objectives for a B.A. in Psychology are: (a) describe the nature of psychology as a discipline; (b) use the concepts, language, and major theories of the discipline to account for psychological phenomena; (c) demonstrate knowledge and understanding representing appropriate breadth and depth in selected content areas of psychology; (e) describe the basic characteristics of the science of psychology; (f) explain different research methods used by psychologists; (g) design and conduct basic studies to address psychological questions using appropriate research methods; (h) evaluate the appropriateness of conclusions derived from psychological research; (i) generalize research conclusions appropriately based on the parameters of particular research methods; (j) follow the APA Code of Ethics in the treatment of human and nonhuman participants in the design, data collection, interpretation, and reporting of psychological research; (k) use critical thinking effectively; (l) use reasoning to recognize, develop, defend, and criticize arguments and other persuasive appeals; (m) approach problems effectively; (n) describe major applied areas of psychology (e.g., clinical, counseling, industrial/organizational, school, health); (o) identify appropriate applications of psychology in solving problems; (p) articulate how psychological principles can be used to explain social issues and inform public policy; (q) recognize the necessity for ethical behavior in all aspects of the science and practice of psychology; (s) recognize and understand the importance of academic integrity; (t) recognize and respect human diversity and understand that psychological explanations may vary across populations and contexts; (u) assess and justify engagement with respect to civic, social, and global responsibilities; (v) understand the limitations of psychological knowledge and skills . A. University General Education Program (41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. B. College and Degree (B.A.) Requirements (12-16 hours) The College and Bachelor of Arts requirements are in addition to the University General Education Program requirements and are listed above. C. The Major (35 hours in Psychology) 1. Completion of PSYC 1030, 3010 (4), 3020 (4). In addition, all majors must take the Psychology Field Test during their senior year. 2. Concentrations (24 hours): a. General Psychology: Completion of at least one course each from the PSYC 3100, 3300, and 3500 series, and 15 additional upper-division hours in PSYC courses. b. Behavioral Neuroscience: any 3100 series course, 3306, 3507, 4505, 4506, and 4997 (Thesis), and 6 additional upper-division hours. Students must also take BIOL 1110, 1120, CHEM 1110, 1120. c. Cognitive Science: Completion of at least one course from either PSYC 3103 or 3106; PSYC 3303; at least two courses from PSYC 3304, 3305, 3306, 3530, 4305; and either PSYC 4998 or 4999. In addition, students must complete at least three of the following courses outside of psychology: PHIL 3460, 3621, 4421, COMP 1800, 1900, 4001, ENGL 3511, COMP 2700. Students must take additional upper-division hours in PSYC courses to bring their PSYC total to at least 35 hours. D. Electives Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120. E. Honors Program The Psychology Honors Program provides an opportunity for selected Psychology majors to enrich their learning experience through honors courses, independent study, a senior thesis, and extracurricular learning experiences. The program requires a minimum of 15 credit hours of honors work in psychology. Students who complete the program with a 3.25 cumulative grade point average will earn degrees that included the distinction "With Honors in Psychology." Please contact the department honors coordinator for more detailed information about the Psychology Honors Program and assistance in applying. Psychology majors may also be eligible to participate in the University Honors Program described elsewhere in this bulletin. Some psychology honors courses may be counted toward the requirement of the University Honors Program. Psychology Honors Classes. The honors courses described below are open only to students in good standing in the Psychology Honors Program or the University Honors Program. Honors courses in Psychology include: (1) PSYC 1030 (General Psychology - Honors). Students who wish to enroll in this course during their first year may do so either by meeting the requirements for the University Honors Program or by instructor permission; (2) periodically offered honors sections of other courses in the psychology curriculum; (3) specialized honors courses; (4) Honors Special Topics; (5) Directed Research and Senior Thesis. Psychology Honors Contracts. Students may ask the instructor of any psychology course to negotiate an honors contract, in which the instructor and student agree on additional honor-level requirements for the course. Psychology Honors Senior Thesis. Students ask a psychology faculty member to serve as adviser for PSYC 4996 (Honors Senior Thesis), typically completed during the student’s last semester. Before enrolling in PSYC 4996, the student should complete at least one semester of PSYC 4504 (Directed Research) under the same faculty adviser who will oversee work in the honors thesis. Students specializing in Behavioral Neuroscience may choose to enroll in PSYC 4506 (Directed Research in Behavioral Neuroscience) and PSYC 4997 (Senior Thesis in Behavioral Neuroscience). The completed thesis is presented in writing and defended orally before a faculty committee. Psychology Minor Completion of 20 semester hours in psychology, including PSYC 1030, 3010 (4) 3020 (4) (or equivalent), and 9 additional upper-division hours. Typical 4-Year Psychology Sequence Freshman Year ENGL 1010 3 ENGL 1020 3 MATH* 3-4 Nat. Sci./Math/B.A. 3-4 PSYC 1030 3 PSYC 3010 4 Elective 3 Humanities* 3 Foreign Language/B.A. 3 Foreign Language/B.A. 3 Semester Totals 15-16 hrs 16-17 hrs Sophomore Year PSYC 3020 4 PSYC 33xx 3 ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 COMM 2381 3 PSYC 31xx 3 UD elective 3 Natural Science* 4 Natural Science* 4 Elective 3 History* 3 Semester Totals 17 hrs 16 hrs Junior Year Fine Arts* 3 History* 3 PSYC 35xx 3 UD PSYC elective 3 Elective 3 UD elective 3 Elective 3 Social/Behavioral Sciences* 3 UD PSYC elective 3 Elective 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 15 hrs Senior Year UD PSYC elective 3 Elective 3 Elective 3 UD PSYC elective 3 UD PSYC elective 3 Elective 3 Elective 1 Elective 3 UD Humanities/B.A. 3 UD Elective 1 Semester Totals 13 hrs 13 hrs Total Hours: 120 Total Hours Required for Graduation: 120 *Must satisfy University General Education Program Requirement College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .