#http://www.memphis.edu/law/documents/health_law_probono.pdf
1 of 5 HEALTH LAW RELATED PRO BONO OPPORTUNITIES Alternative Spring Break • Public Action Law Society .memphis.edu/law/career/asb.php Public Ac tion Law Society ASB Coordinator Professor Christina Zawisza, PALS advisor czawisza@memphis.edu The Public Action Society hosts Alternative Spring Break (•ASB†) annually. ASB began in 2010 when 15 Memphis law students traveled to Miami to help Haitians stranded in the US apply for temporary protected status. In Spring 2011, PALS brought ASB to Memphis and hosted 37 law students from 8 law schools in 3 areas: (1) Pro Se Divorce, (2) Advance Directives, and (3) Non - Profit Organizations. In 2012, PALS hosted 62 students (29 from Memphis) in four areas: (1) Pro Se Divorce, (2) Advance Directives, (3) Legislative Drafting, and (4) Immigration. In 2013, PALS continued to expand its program to allow for more student participation in different areas o f the law and offered tracks in (1) Pro Se Divorce, (2) Advance Directives, (3) Immigration in Knoxville, (4) Immigration in Memphis, (5) Human Trafficking Research Track, (6) Public Interest Advocacy Research Track, and (7) Criminal with Street Court. Th is year, PALS is hoping to offer additional tracks in Voter Restoration and Veteran‡s Issues. American Civil Liberties Union of Tennessee - tn.org Internships & Law Clerk Program (615) 320 - 7142 The ACLU of Tennessee (ACLU - TN) is dedicated to translating the guarantees of the Bill of Rights into realities for all Tennesseans. Some of the issues ACLU - TN fights for include: the right to free speech and expression; the right to freely practice any religion or no religion; the right to equal tre atment; the right to reproductive freedom; and the right to privacy. Law student volunteers are involved in research and preparation of legal memoranda, fact investigations, client and witness interviews, discovery, pre - trial motions, handling expert wi tnesses, as well as accompanying lawyers at court appearances. A Step Ahead Program 3704 Walker Ave Memphis, TN 38112 (901) 320 - 7837 A Step Ahead Program of Memphis is committed to providing f ree, long - acting birth control for women in Shelby County. A Step Ahead pays for the cost of these 4 types of birth control: Paragard IUD, Mirena IUD, Implanon/Nexplanon Implant, and Depo - Provera Shot. They also pay for the cost of appointment (regardless of insurance) and for transportation by taxi to clinic sites for appointments . Students who volunteer with A Step Ahead will work with health insurance claims and will educate the public about their rights under the ACA . 2 of 5 Center for Arkansas Legal Services Main office in Little Rock (501) 376 - 3423 Center for Arkansas Legal Services (CALS) is one of two free legal aid organiz ations in Arkansas (the other being Legal Aid of Arkansas) that provides civil legal assistance to low - income Arkansans. The types of issues CALS deals with include: consumer law, education law, employment law, family law, health law, housing law, indivi dual rights law, public benefits, veterans/military benefits, and wills and estates. CALS has multiple offices in El Dorado, Fort Smith, Hot Springs, Little Rock, Pine Bluff, Russellville, and Texarkana. Community Legal Center Meg Jones, Executive Director megjonesclc@gmail.com (9 01)543 - 3395 Irene Hallett, Pro Se Clinic Supervisor clcprose@gmail.com (901) 222 - 3813 The Community Legal Center (CLC) offers legal services to thousands of lower income individuals and families in the Memphis area. Cases the CLC handles include: landlord/tenant disputes, garnishments, conservatorships & guardianships, commercial contract disputes, probate matters, non - contested divorces, adoptions, and obtaining child support. CLC also offers th e following services to low - income immigrants: asylum, u - visas, t - visas, change of status, and voluntary departure. Law students can volunteer by contacting Meg Jones or volunteer with the Pro Se Clinic by contacting Irene Hallett. Court Appointed Specia l Advocates (CASA) Reniere Hayes Coordinator of Recruitment & Training rhayes@memphiscasa.org (901) 405 - 8422 CASA volunteers are appointed by judges to watch over and advocate for abused and neglected children, to make sure they don‡t get lost in the overburdened legal and social service system. Volunteers stay with a case until it is closed and the child is placed in a safe, permanent home. Law students can volunteer and will be thoroughly trained and well - supported by CA SA staff. You must pass a background check, participate in a 30 - hour pre - service training course and agree to stay with a case until it is closed. 3 of 5 Disability Law & Advocacy Center of Tennessee West Tennessee Office: (901) 458 - 6013 Middl e Tennessee Office: (615) 298 - 1080 East Tennessee Office: (865) 670 - 2944 Disability Law & Advocacy Center of Tennessee (DLAC) advocates for the rights of Tennesseans with disabilities to ensure that they have an equal opportunity to be productive and re spected members of our society. Some of the issues DLAC assists with include: abuse and neglect outside of the home; discrimination in housing, transportation, and employment; access to programs and services; access to education; obtaining and utilizing assistive technology; and access to vocational rehabilitation. Legal Aid of Arkansas West Memphis Office: Kevin de Liban kdeliban@arlegalaid.org (870) 732 - 6370, ext. 2206 Simion Lucuta slucuta@arlegalservices.org (870) 732 - 6370, ext. 2204 Legal Aid of Arkansas (LAA) is one of two legal service organizations (the other being the Center for Arkansas Legal Services) that provides civil legal assistance for low - income Arkansans. LAA has offices in Batesville, Harrison, Helena , Highland, Jonesboro, Mountain View, Newport, Springdale, and West Memphis. LAA‡s West Memphis office is located just 15 minutes from the law school. The types of issues LAA deals with include: consumer law, education law, employment law, family law, h ealth law, housing law, individual rights law, public benefits, veterans/military benefits, and wills and estates. Memphis Area Legal Services Linda Warren Seely lseely@malsi.org (901) 523 - 8822 Memphis Area Legal Services, Inc. ( MALS) is the primary provider of civil legal representation to low income families in western Tennessee. MALS assists clients in the areas of: domestic violence; mortgage foreclosure, eviction, or homelessness; wrongful denial of benefits; consumer frau d or predatory lending; child welfare; elder law; bankruptcy; and general advice and counsel on family law. MALS has two locations: Memphis and Covington. Law students can volunteer on different cases or get involved in a variety of projects such as the Saturday Legal Clinic, the Attorney of the Day Clinic, the Pro Se Divorce Project, the Bankruptcy Project or Conservatorship Project. 4 of 5 Memphis Public Interest Law Center Jamie Johnson info@mpilc.org (901) 406 - 0419 Memphis Public Interest Law Center is a non - profit public interest law firm that began conducting activities in 2012. MPILC's mission is to fill a gap in the legal services available in the Memphis community - a gap is services between those who qualify for pro bono or subsi di zed legal service s and those who can afford typical, market rate legal fees. MPILC fills this gap through provision of legal su pport, education, and advocacy. MPILC serves two groups of clients: 1) Underserved populations, i.e. individuals or groups who do not qualify for subsidized legal services and who also cannot afford private - market rate legal services, and individuals who do qualify for such services but are not selected to receive them, and 2) Those facing underserved issues, i.e. issues of significant public in terest that are not politically popular, financially feasible, or, for reasons unknown, addressed by the current legal community in the Memphis area. MPILC has identified the following program areas and their corresponding areas of law as underserved issues in the local community: 1. Livable Communities Project: Environmental, Environmental Justice, issues affecting neighbors and neighborhood groups 2. Consumer Project: Fair Housing, Disbaility, Predatory Lending, Tenant - Landlord, FDCPA, TCPA 3. Civil Rights Project: Education, Homelessness, GLBT, Special Need, IMmigration, Juvenile Rights, Elder Abuse 4. Family Project: Domestic Violence, Child Support Enforcement, Stalking, Controlling Spouse/ExSpouse Pr oject Homeless Connect Josh Spickler, PALS, MBA, & Community Alliance for the Homeless joshspickler@gmail.com Twice a year, the Memphis community comes together for a massive one - day event to provide homeless individuals in Memphis and Shelby County wi th all the resources and services needed to leave homelessness. One of the resources offered to homeless individuals is legal assistance through a civil advice clinic and a criminal Street Courts program. Law students are needed to help with organizing t he program, client intake, file preparation, and can shadow attorneys during consultations. To get involved, contact Josh Spickler or the current PALS President. Shelby County Head Start Program countytn.gov/index.aspx?nid=252 John Lov elace Executive Director lovelace - j@scgheadstart.com (901) 922 - 0712 5 of 5 Shelby County Head Start Program is a comprehensive child development program that serves preschool children ages 3 - 5 and their families. The program promotes school readiness by enha ncing the social and cognitive development of children through the provision of educational, health, nutritional, social and other services to enrolled children and families. The Head Start program engages parents in the learning of their children and he lps them make progress toward their educational, literacy, and employment goals. Shelby County Ryan White Program ountytn.gov/index.aspx?NID=2311 Dorcas Young dorcas.young@shelbycountytn.gov (901) 379 - 7512 The Ryan White Program is a federally funded program that provides medical and supportive services for people living with HIV/AIDS who are low income, uninsured or underinsured and have no other resources available to meet these needs. The Ryan White Program Office is the unit for overseeing the legislative, programmatic, and fiscal compliance of federal funds. Although the office does not provide direct services to clients, it is responsible for subcontracting funds to area clinics and community based organizations for service de livery. The Ryan White Program Offices also ensures collaborative, comprehensive planning by key stakeholders, including people living with HIV/AIDS, in the design of a system of quality HIV care throughout the region. Tennessee Justice Center The Tennessee Justice Center is a non - profit, public interest law and ad vocacy firm serving families in need. TJC gives priority to policy issues and civil cases in which the most basic necessities of life are at stake, and where their advocacy can benefit families statewide. West Tennessee Legal Services Main office/Jac kson (731) 423 - 0616 Dyersburg (731) 285 - 8181 Huntingdon (731) 986 - 8975 Selmer (731) 645 - 7961 West Tennessee Legal Services (WTLS) is a non - profit organization that provides civil assistance to individuals, families, and communities l ocated in West Tennessee. WTLS serves 17 counties: Benton, Carroll, Chester, Crockett, Dyer, Decatur, Gibson, Hardeman, Hardin, Haywood, Henry, Henderson, Lake, McNairy, Madison, Obion, and Weakley. WTLS handles the following types of cases: access to health/medical care, securing or retaining housing, ensuring compliance with Fair Housing laws, securing or retaining income, personal freedom and security rights, parental rights with state action, rights of persons in institutions, freedom of all persons from abuse, family issues, education rights, consumer rights, and community education.