#http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/resources/hb_health.php
Parent Handbook: Health &amp; Safety - Parent &amp; Family Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parent &amp; Family Services About Events Communication Resources Get Involved Give Back Visit UofM Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Home Parent &amp; Family Services Resources Parent Handbook: Health &amp; Safety Parent Handbook: Health &amp; Safety Campus Safety The University is committed to keeping all students, faculty, staff, and visitors safe. Police Services is a full-service police agency which serves the University of Memphis community. There is also a Memphis Police Department station on the edge of campus. The University of Memphis has the distinction of being the safest metropolitan campus in the State of Tennessee. Police Services Emergency: 901.678.4357 (901.678.HELP) Non-Emergency: 901.678.3848 Tiger Escort Students that are on campus at night and who do not feel comfortable walking to their car or dorm can call on Tiger Escrot. Tiger Escortwill pick up students all around campus and escort them to their car or to their residence hall. Normal hours for the Fall and Spring semesters are from 6:00 pm to 2:00 am seven days a week. Tiger Escort Program 901.678.4663 (901.678.HOME) Emergency Notifications (TigerText) In the event of an emergency on campus, the University of Memphis offers an emergency alert text messaging service to students, faculty and staff called TigerText . This optional service is used in the event of an on-campus emergency, an unscheduled university closing, or a delay or cancellation of classes due to, for instance, inclement weather. In addition to the text, students will also receive an e-mail at their UofM e-mail account. The TigerText text messaging service is just one of the methods the University uses to communicate emergency information to students, faculty, and staff. We will continue to use a variety of other methods as appropriate, including email, telephone and an outdoor warning system. For more information about emergency planning at the University of Memphis, visit . Health Resources Student Health Center provides outpatient care, health education, and health promotion to students, faculty, and staff on campus. Students may be seen during the semester in which they are enrolled. A current University ID must be presented for admission. Students may be seen between semesters for an access fee. Short-term, acute illnesses and injuries are addressed at Student Health Center. Patients with chronic, complex or recurrent medical conditions must continue to use their primary care physician for issues related to their chronic illness. No routine physicals are performed at Student Health Services. Only lab tests ordered by Student Health Center medical providers will be performed. Unlike many other healthcare institutions, students with managed care insurance are not required to obtain prior authorization from their primary care physician before seeking care at Student Health Center. However, students should know their insurance information, as well as their medical history and health status. These are important steps as students start to take responsibility for their own healthcare. Students enrolled at the university are not charged an access fee. Most routine diagnostic and laboratory analyses required for treatment will be at NO charge. Students pay fees for dispensary medications and vaccinations. Students will be notified of any charges before a test or procedure is performed. Student Health Center requests payment before services are provided. Payment may be made by cash, check, credit card, or Tiger Funds. When more in-depth evaluation or treatment is needed the patient is referred off-campus. All charges are the responsibility of the patient. Student Health Center 901.678.2287 Immunizations Before enrolling in classes your student is required to complete a Health Form and provide proof of immunizations. All incoming students are required to show proof of Varicella (Chicken Pox) and Measles, Mumps, and Rubella (MMR) immunizations. Students under the age of 18 are required to have the Hepatitis B and Meningococcal Meningitis Health History Form completed and signed by a parent or legal guardian. Although these two vaccinations are not required to attend the University of Memphis they are strongly recommended by the Student Health Center. The State of Tennessee requires all new students under the age of 22 who will be living in a University of Memphis residence to be immunized against meningococcal disease on or after their 16th birthday and provide proof of receiving this immunization before moving into their residence. In addition, students coming from areas of high tuberculosis transmission are required to have a Tuberculosis Skin Test (Mantoux, also known as PPD) before registering for classes. For instructions on locating and completing the form, please click here . Counseling Resources College presents a new set of challenges for young adults, and sometimes they need help managing these challenges. The University’s Counseling Center is the place to start for students who may be struggling to cope with the pressures of college. The Psychological Counseling Center offers confidential individual, couples, family, and group counseling services, psychological and educational assessment services at no cost to students (except for testing fees). Assessments include personality, learning disorders, and ADHD testing, as well as substance abuse issues. For students who are unsure of their plans beyond college, the Career Counseling office offers career counseling, assessment, and placement services. Students also have the opportunity to participate in Career Encounters, a program that links students with area professionals, giving them the he opportunity for career exploration before graduation. Student Health &amp; Counseling Services 901.678.2068 Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Contact Us Got questions, comments, or concerns? We're here to help! Parent &amp; Family E-news Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News. Parent &amp; Family Handbook Learn about opportunities and services available to students. In the Now: September FAQs What you need to know this month to help you help your student Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .