#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/chem.php
Chemistry - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Chemistry Chemistry GARY L. EMMERT, PhD Interim Chair Room 210, J.M. Smith Chemistry Building PAUL SIMONE, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies 901.678.2621 gradchem@memphis.edu I. The Department of Chemistry offers graduate programs leading to the Master of Science and Doctor of Philosophy degrees with a major in chemistry. Concentrations are available in analytical, computational, inorganic, organic, and physical chemistry. Related courses may be taken in other departments including physics, mathematics, geology, biology, and engineering and in fields other than the student’s major within the Department of Chemistry. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MS Degree Program Program objectives are: (1) competence in a common core of material in the major area of specialization; (2) experience in experimental design, data analysis, and oral and written presentation of research results; (3) competitive for professional positions in the chemical sciences. A. Program Admission and Prerequisites Prospective students, in addition to meeting the requirements for admission to The Graduate School, are required to present as a prerequisite for admission a satisfactory record of undergraduate work in chemistry; normally 32 semester hours of chemistry will be required, including quantitative analysis, organic, inorganic, and physical chemistry (biochemistry may also be taken). Students who are deficient in undergraduate work may be admitted and the deficiencies removed without graduate credit. Submission of GRE scores is required for admission, but permission for a waiver may be requested from the department for extraordinary circumstances. B. Program Requirements Diagnostic Examinations — Before registering for the first time, incoming graduate students will take a series of six standardized examinations, in general, analytical, biochemistry, inorganic, organic, and physical chemistry. The examinations are at a level equivalent to completion of the following undergraduate courses at the University of Memphis: CHEM 4111 (inorganic),4211 (analytical), 3310 and 3511 (organic), 4411 (physical), and 4512 (biochemistry). A candidate for the Master of Science degree must make at least 50th percentile on the general chemistry test to remain in the program. A candidate for the Master of Science degree must make at least 50th percentile on the analytical and organic tests plus one of the remaining three or take the equivalent classes (CHEM 6111, 6211, 6311, 6411, 6511). Students should note that a score of 75th percentile on the test or a "B" or better in the course is prerequisite to higher level graduate courses in each area. Course Work Requirements — The thirty semester-hour total required is subject to the following restrictions: No more than 9 hours of credit at the 6000 level may be counted towards the Master of Science degree. At least 9 hours must be in courses numbered CHEM 7100-7899, with at least two areas of chemistry represented. A maximum of 6 semester hours of Chemistry 7996 (Thesis) can be applied to the 30 semester hour requirement. A maximum of 3 semester hours of CHEM 7910/8910 (Special Problems in Chemistry) may be counted toward the 30 semester hour requirement. Presentation (CHEM 7911) is required of all graduate students. A maximum of 4 semester hours from some combination of CHEM 7911 and 7/8913 (Seminar) may be used to meet the 30 semester hours required. A maximum of 6 semester-hours credit can be granted for graduate courses successfully completed at other regionally accredited institutions. Credit previously earned at another institution must be presented for evaluation not later than the end of the student’s second semester of enrollment. No more than 6 semester hours of CHEM 7001 (Directed Research) and CHEM 7996 (Thesis) combined may be counted toward the 30 semester-hour requirement. Comprehensive Examinations — The student must begin the written part of the comprehensive examinations by the beginning of the third semester and take up to eight consecutive tests. These are described in the summary of the administration of the graduate program. A student pursuing the master’s degree must obtain a total of at least six points. Any student who has not amassed six points at the completion of eight tests is automatically terminated from the Master’s degree program. Written permission from the student’s Advisory Committee and the Graduate Studies Committee is required to delay beginning the tests or to delay continuing once the student has begun taking tests. Within six months of obtaining the required six points, students must complete the oral part of the comprehensive examinations. The student will prepare a Research Prospectus on his or her thesis research problem, to be presented orally to the Advisory Committee in an open meeting and in a written form to the Graduate Studies Committee. The oral comprehensive examination can be repeated only once. Seminar — Participation in seminar is required during each semester of residence (excluding summer terms). The Advisory Committee — Upon admission to the Graduate School, the student will be advised by the Department’s Graduate Studies Committee. A student must choose a major professor before the end of the first semester following enrollment. The major professor, in consultation with the student, will recommend the faculty members to be appointed to the student’s Advisory Committee. This committee, which is appointed before the student's First Year Conference, must be composed of at least three members, with the major professor serving as chair. Upon appointment, the committee will review the student’s progress to date and outline an appropriate program tailored to the student’s individual interests to permit fulfillment of the degree requirements. The student will be regularly evaluated by their Advisor and Advisory Committee. In the unlikely event that a student changes major professors, a new Advisory Committee must be appointed. Thesis Option — Each student must submit a thesis acceptable to the student’s Advisory Committee. The thesis can be based on work done for CHEM 7996, for which a maximum of six credit-hours can be applied to the degree requirement. NOTE: Students electing to write a thesis should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. Non-Thesis Option — If a non-thesis program is selected, a student must 1) take two additional 7/8000-level course and 2) prepare a detailed report in the form of a review or proposal (which can be based on literature research). Three hours credit for CHEM 7910 will be earned. A minimum of three semester-hours from one credit of CHEM 7911 and two credits of 7/8913 (Seminar) must be earned. Thesis credits (Chem 7996) do not count toward the non-thesis degree. No more than four credits of Chem 7001 and Chem 7910 together may be counted toward the non-thesis MS. For the non-thesis option, a maximum of 9 hours of course work may be included in a field related to chemistry (physical or biological sciences, mathematical sciences, or engineering). Final Oral Examination — A final oral examination on the student’s thesis or report and related material will be administered by the student’s Advisory Committee after completion of all other requirements. This examination will be held seven or more days after the student has distributed copies of the thesis or report to the members of the Advisory Committee, which must be done at least one month before the end of the semester in which the student expects to graduate. If the final oral examination is unsatisfactory it must be repeated within one year; it may not be repeated more than once. Retention — A student pursuing the Master’s degree program may be terminated for any of the following reasons: Failure to maintain a grade point average of 3.0 or above. A student who has a cumulative grade point average below 3.0 will be placed on probation. Continuation in graduate school must be approved by the Vice Provost for Graduate Studies. Any person whose continuation is denied may appeal the decision to the University Council for Graduate Studies. Failure to accumulate the requisite number of points on the departmental comprehensive examinations (See Section 3). Failure to complete the degree requirements within six years of initial enrollment in the graduate program. Failure to make satisfactory progress towards the degree in a timely fashion, as determined by the Departmental Program Retention Committee. Failure to satisfy the Advisory Committee on the final oral examination (See Section 8). III. PhD Degree Program Program objectives are: (1) competence in a common core of material in the major area of specialization; (2) proficiency in a minor area of specialization outside of the major; (3) development of expertise in experimental design, data analysis, and oral and written presentation of research results; (4) competitive for professional positions in the chemical sciences. A. Program Admission See MS admission requirements. B. Program Requirements Diagnostic Examinations — Before registering for the first time, incoming graduate students will take a series of six standardized examinations, chosen from general, analytical, biochemistry, inorganic, organic, and physical chemistry. The examinations are at a level equivalent to completion of the following undergraduate courses at The University of Memphis: CHEM 4111 (inorganic), 4211 (analytical), 3310 and 3511 (organic), 4411 (physical), and 4512 (biochemistry). A doctoral candidate must make at least 50th percentile on four of the upper-level tests (analytical, biochemistry, inorganic, organic, and physical tests) or must take four of the equivalent classes (CHEM 6111, 6211, 6311, 6411, 6511). A candidate for the PhD degree must make at least 70th percentile on the general chemistry test to remain in the program. Students should note that a score of 75th percentile on the test or a "B" or better in the course is prerequisite to higher level graduate courses in each area. Course Work Requirements — The doctoral degree program includes the requirement of the satisfactory completion of a minimum of 72 semester hours of graduate credit beyond the BS degree. The 72-hour total is subject to the following restrictions: No more than 12 hours of credit at the 6000 level may be counted towards the doctoral degree. At least 12 hours must be in courses numbered CHEM 7100-7899 (8100-8899; however, a maximum of 1 hour of Presentation (CHEM 7911) may be combined into this total), with at least two areas of chemistry represented. A maximum of 32 hours credit for CHEM 8001 (Directed Research) and CHEM 9000 (Dissertation) combined can be applied toward the 72-hour total. A maximum of 12 hours of CHEM 7/8910 (Special Problems in Chemistry) may be credited toward the total hour requirement. A maximum of 12 hours of course work may be included in a field related to chemistry (physical or biological sciences, mathematical sciences, or engineering). Courses taken in related areas must be numbered 6000 or above. However, these related courses cannot substitute for the more than six of the twelve hours of required CHEM 7/8000-level courses for the PhD Degree. Presentation (CHEM 7911) and Advanced Presentation (CHEM 8911) are required. A maximum of 4 semester hours from some combination of CHEM 7911, 8911, and 7/8913 may be used to meet the 72 semester-hour requirement. A maximum of 30 hours of graduate course credit completed at the University or other accredited institution (including credit applied on an MS degree) may be applied to the 72-hour requirement subject to the approval of the student’s Advisory Committee and the Department’s Graduate Studies Committee. Considering all other requirements are met, a minimum of 9 hours in graduate courses other than CHEM 7/8910, CHEM 7/8911, CHEM 7/8913, and CHEM 8001/9000 must be completed at the university. Residence — Of the total semester-hour requirement, a minimum of 24 hours must be earned while the student is at The University of Memphis. This requirement cannot be met wholly by attendance at Summer Sessions and must include at least one academic year of full-time student status. Comprehensive Examinations — The student must begin the written part of the comprehensive examinations in the third semester and take up to eight consecutive tests. These are described in the summary of the administration of the graduate program. A student pursuing the doctoral degree must obtain a total of at least twelve points. Any student who has not amassed twelve points at the completion of eight tests is automatically terminated from the doctoral degree program. Written permission from the student’s Advisory Committee is required to delay beginning the tests or to delay continuing once the student has begun taking tests. Within one year of obtaining the required twelve points, students should complete the oral part of the comprehensive examinations. The student will prepare a Research Prospectus on his or her thesis research problem, to be presented orally to the Advisory Committee in an open meeting and in a written form to the Advisory Committee and the Graduate Studies Committee. The oral comprehensive examination can be repeated only once. A student who changes major professors must present a new Research Prospectus within one semester after the change is made. Students who enter the PhD program and already hold the MS degree in chemistry should begin taking the cumulative examinations at the first opportunity after initial enrollment if a satisfactory score is made on the diagnostic examinations. Seminar — Participation in Seminar is required during each semester of residence (excluding summer terms). The Advisory Committee — Upon admission to the Graduate School, the student will be advised by the Department’s Graduate Studies Committee. A student must choose a major professor from the graduate faculty before the end of the first semester following enrollment. The major professor, in consultation with the student, will recommend faculty members to be appointed to the student’s Advisory Committee. This committee, which is appointed after the student's First Year Conference, must be composed of at least five members, with the major professor serving as chair. Of the members of this committee, at least one is to be from a different area of specialization from that in which the student intends to work. Upon appointment, the committee will review the student’s progress to date and outline an appropriate program tailored to the student’s interests to enable fulfillment of the degree requirements.The student will be regularly evaluated by their Advisor and Advisory Committee. In the unlikely event that a student changes major professors, a new Advisory Committee must be appointed. Admission to Candidacy — In order to apply for candidacy, the student must have an Advisory Committee and must have successfully completed the departmental comprehensive examination requirement. The written and oral portions of the comprehensive examinations (the oral exam replaces the research prospectus) collectively satisfy the comprehensive examination requirement of the Graduate School. The test scores, transcripts, and other pertinent data will be examined by the student’s Advisory Committee, and their recommendation, with the approval of the Graduate Studies Committee and the Department Chair, will be forwarded to the Graduate School. Doctoral Research and Dissertation — A minimum of six hours of CHEM 9000 is required for the doctoral degree. Registration for nine semester hours of CHEM 9000 and CHEM 8001 combined is required of all doctoral candidates before the dissertation will be considered. NOTE: Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. Final Examination — The student’s Advisory Committee will administer a final oral examination on the student’s dissertation and related material after completion of all course requirements and the dissertation. This examination will be held two weeks or more after the student has distributed copies of the dissertation to the members of the Advisory Committee; which must be done at least five weeks before the end of the semester in which the student expects to graduate. If the final oral examination is unsatisfactory, it must be repeated within one year. It may not be repeated more than once. Retention — A student pursuing the doctoral degree program may be terminated for any of the following reasons: Failure to maintain a grade point average of 3.0 or above. A student who has a cumulative grade point average below 3.0 will be placed on probation. The Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Studies must approve continuation in graduate school. Any person whose continuation is denied may appeal the decision to the University Council for Graduate Studies. Accumulation of more than six hours of graduate credit with grades of C or below. Failure to accumulate the requisite number of points on the departmental comprehensive examinations. (See Section 4). Failure to make satisfactory progress towards the degree in a timely fashion, as determined by the Departmental Program Retention Committee. Failure to satisfy the Advisory Committee on the final oral examination. (See Section 10). Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .