#http://www.memphis.edu/spahcc/personnel/
Personnel - Sport Performance and Health Consulting Center (SPAHCC) - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Sport Performance and Health Consulting Center About Available Tests Personnel Contact Home Sport Performance and Health Consulting Center (SPAHCC) Personnel Personnel Max Paquette, PhD | Director Dr. Paquette is an Assistant Professor in Exercise &amp; Sport Science in The School of Health Studies and serves as Director and Sports Biomechanist within the SPAHCC. His primary responsibility is to provide in depth interpretation of biomechanical analyses to clients focused on injury prevention and performance improvement. He consults with high school, collegiate and elite track and field athletes and their coaches to optimize performance and reduce injury risks. He competed as a collegiate athlete in cross country and track at the University of Guelph (Ontario, Canada). In 2008, he was a Canadian Olympic Trials finalist in the 3000m steeplechase. View CV Rick Bloomer, PhD | Center Oversight and Evaluation Dr. Bloomer joined the faculty of The University of Memphis in 2004. He currently holds the rank of Professor and serves as Director of the Cardiorespiratory/Metabolic Laboratory . He has been providing sport-specific and health related testing in his lab for more than 10 years. He holds certifications from both the American College of Sports Medicine and the National Strength and Conditioning Association. He has more than 20 years of experience in both personal exercise and nutritional consulting and has trained and consulted with several hundred clients. He oversees the cardio-metabolic testing performed in the SPAHCC and has the experience and expertise to interpret and explain relevant test results. View CV Lauren Paquette, MSc | Sport Psychology Consultant Lauren serves as our Sport Psychology Consultant within the SPAHCC. Her primary responsibility is to meet with clients and determine strategies to improve the mental component of your sport. Lauren received a BSc in exercise science from Baylor University and an MSc in sport psychology and motor behavior from the University of Tennessee. Lauren has been consulting with high school, collegiate, recreational and elite athletes since 2013. Lauren is a professional middle distance runner with an impressive performance resume. She was 7-time All-American in cross country and track, owns 4 Baylor University all-time records, is a 4 time USA National Track &amp; Field finalist in the 1500m and, boasts impressive personal best times of 2:02.97 (800m), 4:09.86 (1500m), 4:30.73 (Mile), 9:08.01 (3000m), 16:07 (5km) and 34:39 (10km). Matt Butawan | Staff Matt is a Memphis-native and Systems Biology graduate of the UofM. He currently serves as a Research Assistant within Dr. Bloomer's Cardiorespiratory/Metabolic Laboratory as well as a staff member for the SPAHCC. Previously, Matt worked as an emergency department scribe at Baptist Memorial Hospital. While in high school at White Station HS, Matt played football, basketball, and soccer. He is involved in the scheduling and testing of individuals and teams requesting services through the SPAHCC. View CV Back to The School of Health Studies Schedule an Appointment Set up your consultation today Contact Us Questions or comments? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .