#http://www.memphis.edu/presweb/communications/january15mission.php
Success at the Heart of Our Mission - Office of the President - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Office of the President About Mission and Plan Communications Leadership Contact Communications from the President's Office President's Report Home Office of the President Communications Success at the Heart of Our Mission Dear Campus Community: I hope all are enjoying a well-deserved holiday and semester break. As we move into 2015, I thought I would share some remarkably encouraging news. At the heart of our mission is providing access and opportunity, recognizing the importance of a college degree and a comprehensive educational experience in the world today. The most recent "access to success data report" for the University of Memphis reveals significant progress. The Pell vs. non-Pell gaps in first to second year retention rates for low-income freshman, low-income transfers, underrepresented minority (URM) freshman and underrepresented minority transfers all improved significantly and in some cases the gaps were closed. From 2006 to date, the retention rates for low-income freshman receiving Pell support have increased from 69% to 73% and for low-income transfers the rates for Pell recipients have increased from 67% to 73%. For URM Pell recipients during the same time period, rates have increased from 70% to 74% and for URM transfer Pell recipients they have improved from 65% to 73%. Again, the comparisons with non-Pell recipients demonstrate the gap has been closed for low-income transfers and URM transfers, and the gap narrowed for freshman in both groups. Data on the six-year graduation rates show noticeable improvement across both Pell and non-Pell groups, but naturally take longer to demonstrate the kind of progress we have targeted. Both Pell and non-Pell low-income freshman graduation rates have improved, from 35% to 50% and 25% to 33%, respectively. Low income transfers for non-Pell recipients have improved from 36% to 52% and Pell recipients have moved from 39% to 43%. URM freshman with Pell support have improved from 26% to 35%, and those without Pell support going from 36% to 49%. Finally, URM transfers students with Pell support have gone from 32% to 40% and non-Pell URM transfer students have improved dramatically from 39% to 55%. It takes an entire campus community to have this kind of remarkable impact, particularly over such a brief period of time. Join me in thanking all of those in academic affairs for this great progress, but it is only with the support of all of our faculty and staff across the entire campus that this kind of progress is possible. Thank you and congratulations for helping change the lives of our students and for having such a positive impact on our community, state and nation. Go Tigers! M. David Rudd | President Communications from the President's Office President's Report Dashboard UofM steps towards success Year of Service Initiative Learn how your service hours can provide scholarships for students! President's Blog News, stories, videos and more Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .