#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/programs/center_institutes.php
Centers &amp; Institutes - FCBE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty &amp; Staff Research News Programs Departments School of Accountancy Department of Economics Department of Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate Department of Management Department of Business Information &amp; Technology Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management MBA Programs Introduction Customer-Driven MBA Executive MBA International MBA Online MBA Professional MBA Specialized Master's Programs Introduction MS in Accounting MSBA in Business Information &amp; Technology MSBA in Economics MSBA in Finance Centers &amp; Institutes Doctoral Programs Home FCBE Programs Centers &amp; Institutes Centers &amp; Institutes The Sparks Bureau of Business and Economic Research/Center for Manpower Studies of the Fogelman College at the University of Memphis provides data and analyses of economic, demographic, and business trends in the Mid-South and conducts applied research on topics affecting the state, regional, and local economies. Areas of concentrated research include economic development, welfare reform, gaming, education, economic impact studies, labor market analyses, revenue forecasting, and survey research. Research results are available in printed and electronic formats. The Systems Testing Excellence Program (STEP) STEP is a major interdisciplinary research initiative under the umbrella of the FedEx Institute of Technology with academic program support from the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. The Department of Business Information &amp; Technology is leading this Program and is tasked with building up research and curricular competencies at the University of Memphis that will help position the university as a national and internationally recognized thought leader in the science of systems testing. Memphis CIBER Established in 1989, Memphis CIBER is the only CIBER located in the Lower Mississippi Delta region-an area encompassing most of Arkansas, Mississippi, and Louisiana and parts of Illinois, Kentucky, Missouri, and Tennessee. Characterized by serious limitations on human and economic resources and a provincial mindset wary of change, the Delta region contains some of the poorest counties in the United States Since its inception, Memphis CIBER has systematically worked to develop a continuum of programs designed to globalize the thinking and activities of students, faculty, and business in the Lower Mississippi Delta while contributing to national competitiveness goals. Core programs are continually refined to respond to emerging needs and growth opportunities while maintaining their focus on the region's unique needs. CIBER began its efforts focused on affecting institutional change at The University of Memphis. Results include the development and implementation of an International MBA Program that significantly advanced institutional collaboration, resources, and strategies for further internationalization efforts across academic disciplines. The Center for Economic Education The Center for Economic Education at the University of Memphis promotes economic literacy through the public and private school systems and to the community at large. The CEE provides resources, training and support to K-12 educators to better equip teachers and students with functional economic and financial education. The CEE also provides opportunities for improved adult economic literacy through outreach programs. The CEE offers a variety of workshops and for-credit classes for teachers in the Memphis region. Center for Supply Chain Management The FedEx Center for Supply Chain Management , which is part of the FedEx Institute of Technology at The University of Memphis, is a leader in applied supply chain management research. A primary focus of the FedEx Center’s research is the critical role of information technology in SCM. The FedEx Center for Supply Chain Management received the 2003 Academic Excellence Award by the Tennessee State Board of Regents in recognition of its accomplishments. FedEx Center for Supply Chain Management activities include: Research – Conducts scientific investigations into supply chain management issues using case studies, surveys, field experiments, and computer-based modeling that result in client reports, working papers and journal articles. Educational Programs – A wide range of supply chain management educational programs are offered. Customized and certificate programs are available. Presentations – Provides presentations on leading practices in supply chain management by nationally prominent practitioners and scholars. The Center for Healthcare Economics In March 2003, Methodist Healthcare and Le Bonheur Systems, Inc. gave the University of Memphis a donation of $1,000,000 to establish The Center for Healthcare Economics in the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics. The purpose of the Center is to address complex healthcare issues of efficiency, effectiveness and equity with a focus on emerging healthcare issues that affect Memphis, Shelby County, and the State of Tennessee. The Center provides a physical and administrative structure to facilitate the study of health care and its economic impact. Through a variety of research, internship, instruction, and public services programs, the Center works closely with entities both internal and external to the University to accomplish its mission. In the near term, the key policy areas emphasized by the Center include, among other topics: Study of the impact and applicability of regional and state health economics trends Evaluation of government health care programs such as TennCare and development of strategies and methods for improving the efficiency and effectiveness of these programs Generation of scientific information concerning the costs and benefits of various wellness and health promotion programs for employers and their employees Assistance to stakeholders such as patients and employers in the promotion of cost effective dissemination of new health technologies and pharmaceutical products Programs Departments School of Accountancy Department of Economics Department of Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate Department of Management Department of Business Information &amp; Technology Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management MBA Programs Introduction Customer-Driven MBA Executive MBA International MBA Online MBA Professional MBA Specialized Master's Programs Introduction MS in Accounting MSBA in Business Information &amp; Technology MSBA in Economics MSBA in Finance Centers &amp; Institutes Doctoral Programs Apply to our Undergraduate Programs &gt; Enroll at the university and engage yourself with our six different departments, student enrichment, and more. Apply to our Masters Programs &gt; Earn your degree with one of our six MBA tracks or with one of our four specialized Masters programs! Apply to our Doctoral Programs &gt; Interested in a Ph.D.? Start the journey towards your Ph.D. here! Contact Us &gt; Have questions? Call or email today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .