#http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/resources/hb_financial.php
Parent Handbook: Financial Information - Parent &amp; Family Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parent &amp; Family Services About Events Communication Resources Get Involved Give Back Visit UofM Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Home Parent &amp; Family Services Resources Parent Handbook: Financial Information Parent Handbook: Financial Information Cost of Attending Each year the Financial Aid office determines an estimate of the cost of attendance for students which includes tuition, fees, room, board, books, supplies, and other related expenses. This does not include costs not directly associated with school attendance, such as a car or credit card debt. Tuition costs (fees) vary based on the number of hours a student is taking, their field of study, and whether or not they are considered an in state or out of state student ( residency status ). Living expenses will or can be affected by where the student lives, how much they eat, and other personal habits. You can expect that each year the cost of tuition, housing, and food will increase. Financial Aid Office 901.678.4825 Bursar’s Office 901.678.5579 Spending Money Whether students are living in the residence halls or not, they will need spending money. How much they need depends on how often they buy clothes, go to movies and concerts, eat in restaurants, buy gas, etc. Parents can probably count on a student spending around $50 a week if he or she is not extravagant. Keeping track of expenses for a few weeks is one way for students to determine exactly how much they need. Common expenses are: phone bills, snacks, laundry, entertainment, gas, toiletries, etc.We suggest that parents give their students a monthly or semester allowance to allow them to learn how to budget their money. Financial Aid Awards and Scholarships Financial Aid Financial aid is coordinated through the Financial Aid Office . To receive financial aid, qualified students must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) . You must be a U.S. citizen to receive financial aid. The FAFSA must be completed each year to determine financial aid eligibility. If your student is entering or continuing school, complete the FAFSA early in order to meet the priority deadline. The priority deadline for Fall is February 1 and the priority deadline for Spring is October 1. Financial Aid Office 901.678.4825 Scholarships The Undergraduate Scholarship Office awards hundreds of academic scholarships each year to entering freshmen. All scholarships are awarded for the academic year (Fall and Spring semesters). Scholarships are awarded based on information submitted on the University of Memphis admissions application. A separate scholarship application is not required unless noted. The deadline for admission to the University of Memphis for scholarship consideration is December 1. Most University of Memphis scholarship program awards are based on a combination of ACT/SAT scores and cumulative high school grade point average. These scholarships are four year, renewable scholarships if GPA and full time enrollment are maintained. Early application to The University of Memphis is strongly encouraged as scholarship awards are limited. Scholarships are also available to continuing students, through the student’s major department or through other offices. A list of scholarships is available on the Scholarship Office website. Undergraduate Scholarship Office 901.678.3213 Hope Scholarship Students eligible for the State of Tennessee HOPE Scholarship Program (Lottery Scholarship) must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid as specified by the Tennessee Student Assistance Corporation (TSAC). For more details regarding the Tennessee HOPE Scholarship Program, please go to the Tennessee Student Assistance Corporation (TSAC) HOPE Lottery Scholarship Web Site . Undergraduate Scholarship Office 901.678.3213 Paying the Bill Receiving Statements The University of Memphis does not mail statements, instead statements are available to students through myMemphis, the University’s student database system. Students are sent e-mail reminders to check myMemphis for their statement before each semester for which they are enrolled. Students are responsible for payments by the due date and they vary by semester. Students have two options in paying their bill. They can pay in full prior to the deadline or they can sign up for the installment payment plan . Students can sign up to give others (parents, employers, etc.) the ability to access their account information in the TigerXpress system. Authorized users may view student account balance and make payments. For more information on how your student can sign you up, please click here . Bursar’s Office 901.678.5579 Fee Payment Methods Payments may be made by credit card and electronic check through the TigerXpress system, by mail to the University of Memphis lockbox, and in person at the Bursar’s Office in Room 115 of Wilder Tower. Mailing Address The University of Memphis P.O. Box 1000, Department 313 Memphis, Tennessee 38148-0313 Typical Charges Below is a list of typical charges that are found on a student’s statement. For a detailed list of fees that cover most student situations, please click here . Please note that fees are subject to change without notice. Tuition: The amount a student owes for tuition and fees depends on the number of credit hours enrolled in, school or college enrolled in, residency status, and the classes a student elects to take. Housing : If a student lives in a University residence hall, housing charges will appear on the student account. Special Course Fee: If a student is registered for a certain course, they may be charged an additional fee. Examples include music courses, Fine Art courses, and Engineering courses. Material Fees: If a student is registered for a course that requires certain materials, they will be charged an additional fee. Examples include some chemistry, biology, and theatre courses. Dining Dollar$ : All full time undergraduate students are automatically enrolled in the Dining Dollar$ plan. Each semester (fall and spring), student’s accounts will be charged $300 for them to use at campus dining facilities and in vending machines. Bursar’s Office 901.678.5579 Banking and Credit Cards While some entering college students have been responsible for their personal finances for some time, others have never handled their own money or developed a budget for themselves. Wherever your son or daughter is along this continuum, prior to the start of the first semester, and from time-to-time throughout the college years, we suggest that you initiate an open, candid conversation with your student about his or her financial and budgetary issues. Banking There are a variety of financial institutions with branches on or near campus. First South Credit Union has a branch on campus. It is located above the bookstore in the V. Lane Rawlins Service Court. Services and fees at banks vary, and students should shop around for the bank that meets their individual needs. A student’s identification card is used as a student ID, as a library card, to gain access to University facilities, for meal plans, and to receive health services at the Student Health Center. Funds can also be added to a student’s Tiger Fund account. These funds can be used at dining facilities, vending machines, and even in the bookstore. Credit Cards Many students open credit card accounts when they arrive on campus. Teach your student about the benefits and pitfalls of credit cards. Explain how to accurately compare credit card offers, how to read the fine print, and how to act responsibly when it comes to debt management. Insurance Health Insurance Every student pays a mandatory Health Service fee as part of his or her tuition. This fee covers most services available at the Student Health Center. Although the Student Health Center can serve many of your son or daughter's routine health care needs, there may be an occasion where your son or daughter needs additional services (such as emergency treatment, prescriptions, etc). For this reason, we strongly encourage students to have health insurance. Students who do not have health insurance will be responsible for medical costs that are not covered by the health service fee. To assist students searching for an insurance plan, a website, , where students can compare various health care exchange and marketplace options was created. In addition, the Tennessee Board of Regents requires that F and J- visa students purchase the official school insurance for every semester that the student is enrolled for classes. Student Health Center 901.678.2287 International Student Office (ISO) 901.678.4271 Property Insurance Before your son or daughter arrives on campus, it is a good idea to check with your insurance company to determine if your student's property will be covered by your insurance while he or she is away from your permanent home. Some homeowners' insurance policies have riders that allow for personal possessions away from the insured home to be covered and others do not. If your insurance does not cover your son or daughter's possessions while he or she is on campus, encourage your son or daughter to contact an insurance company about renter's insurance. There are many insurance companies in Memphis that offer relatively low cost renter’s insurance. Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Contact Us Got questions, comments, or concerns? We're here to help! Parent &amp; Family E-news Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News. Parent &amp; Family Handbook Learn about opportunities and services available to students. In the Now: September FAQs What you need to know this month to help you help your student Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .