#http://www.memphis.edu/leadership/emerging/families.php
Emerging Leader Parent and Family - UofM LEAD - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UofM LEAD Emerging Leaders TLI Conferences Professional Development Social Change Emerging Leaders Current Emerging Leaders Overview 1st Year Obligations 2nd Year Obligations 3rd Year Obligations 4th Year Obligations Prospective Emerging Leaders Overview Application 1st Year Obligations Families Frequently Asked Questions Brochure Home UofM LEAD Emerging Leaders Emerging Leader Parent and Family Emerging Leader Parent and Family Over the years, students have described their interactions with other Emerging Leaders as a family experience. It makes sense that they would view their time with each other and the unique bond they share as an "EL Family." With that spirit in mind, coupled with an understanding that you, as parents and family members, may have a different set of concerns from your student, this page is set up to provide information that may be helpful to you. After you have reviewed this page, please look at the Current Students and Prospective Emerging Leaders pages to get additional information about the program from other perspectives. Please make sure to read through the comments at the bottom of this page from parents of some of our current students and alumni. Frequently Asked Questions The selection process for this program is more involved and complex than many scholarships. As a result, you may have a great deal of questions. Please take a look at the FAQ section to the left of your screen to see if we have been able to answer some of the things you want to know. If not, you are welcome to contact Kay Barkoh Senior Coordinator of Leadership Programs, at kbarkoh@memphis.edu or 901.678.5707 for further assistance. Academic Success Students and family members are both concerned about academic performance. Oftentimes, those anxieties are amplified with the Emerging Leaders Program because of the out-of-class obligations of the program; however, it is possible to correlate success in the classroom to the supportive guidance given to Emerging Leaders outside the classroom. Taking a look at the results of the 2013-2014 academic year, freshman Emerging Leaders had a combined fall semester grade point average (GPA) of 3.65 on a 4.0 scale, and 100% of freshmen were retained for their sophomore year, which is over 20% better than the rate for all first-time freshman at the University and slightly higher than historical averages for scholarships that require a stronger incoming academic profile than Emerging Leaders. Across the entire program, all classes averaged at or above a 3.25. Additionally, nearly 13% of all program participants had a spring semester GPA of 4.0. Finally, when you compare groups that started in the fall of 2009, the 4 year graduation and retention rates of Emerging Leaders recipients versus recipients of the Tennessee Hope Lottery Scholarship, which has similar academic requirements to receive and maintain, Emerging Leaders is nearly 25% better. Emerging Leaders succeed as students in their freshman year, and it continues throughout graduation. Professional Preparation Workforce demands change constantly. In order to prepare Emerging Leaders to operate in this flexible environment, each year in the program has some degree of professional development. The requirements for each student match the intended learning for a program year and are structured to allow for students to change course as their professional aspirations are clarified. Freshmen are asked to research and present on a career path, taking into account a course of study and involvement that will support that path. Sophomores complete small projects for local companies in their Emerging Leaders class; they are also encouraged to seek out a mentoring program. Juniors , if they have not done so already, are expected to complete an internship and continue in some form of mentoring program. Seniors do a final walk through of personal branding, interview preparation, and résumé polishing with a member of the program staff. Ongoing Support Emerging Leaders have to attend New Student Orientation and Frosh Camp because those programs have been shown to help ease the transition of students from high school to college. The Emerging Leaders retreat occurs to ensure that every student enters the experiences with a clear understanding of expectations. Freshmen are paired with an upperclassman mentor so they have an older peer to look to for help in the first year. Finally, students meet individually with program staff throughout their time in the program to receive guidance and direction that meets their unique needs and goals. Emerging Leaders Current Emerging Leaders Overview 1st Year Obligations 2nd Year Obligations 3rd Year Obligations 4th Year Obligations Prospective Emerging Leaders Overview Application 1st Year Obligations Families Frequently Asked Questions Brochure Contact UofM LEAD Find out more about the variety of opportunities we offer you! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .