#http://www.memphis.edu/padm/master/standardized-waiver.php
Standardized Examination Waiver Policy - PADM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Public and Nonprofit Administration Masters Certificates Undergraduates People Admission Masters Resources About the Masters Prerequisites Curriculum Course Plans Admissions Home PADM Masters Standardized Examination Waiver Policy Standardized Examination Waiver Request Applicants for the MPA degree or certificate programs may be eligible for a waiver of the standardized entrance exam (GRE, GMAT or MAT) if they meet one of the three criteria sets below: Applicants with an earned professional or graduate degree from an accredited institution Students with an earned masters or other post-baccalaureate degree are exempt from the standardized exam requirement for admission. If you are applying to the program and meet this criterion, please contact our office prior to applying so we can expedite the waiver. Contact our Administrative Assistant, Rebecca Horowitz at 901-678-3360 or by e-mail at rhrowitz@memphis.edu . Public Service or Military Experience: Certain applicants may be eligible for a waiver based upon a combination of their undergraduate performance and subsequent work experience. Applicants seeking a waiver under this mechanism must meet all of the following criteria: Undergraduate GPA of 3.0 or better. Six years of progressive public service experience. Successfully reach supervisory or managerial positions in public or nonprofit organizations, including independence of authority, responsibility of program design, and/or budgetary authority. Military experience: Reached the officer O-3 or equivalent rank. Demonstrated exemplary accomplishment in their public service career or community volunteer activities documented in letters of recommendation. To document your eligibility for the public service experience standardized exam waiver, fill out the following form and submit to our Administrative Assistant, Rebecca Horowitz at 901-678-3360 or by e-mail at rhrowitz@memphis.edu . Click here for standardized exam waiver form Certified Nonprofit Professional (CNP) Undergraduate Students Received certification from the Nonprofit Leadership Alliance. Exhibit leadership in NLSA by serving as an officer, committee chairperson or other position of leadership. Graduate with an overall undergraduate GPA of 3.0 or better but with a GPA of 3.5 or above in nonprofit management minor courses. Demonstrate exemplary accomplishment in areas such as volunteering, fundraising and recruitment documented in letters of recommendation from a nonprofit agency. If you are applying to the program and meet this criterion, please contact our office prior to applying so we can expedite the waiver. Contact our Administrative Assistant, Rebecca Horowitz at 901-678-3360 or by e-mail at rhrowitz@memphis.edu . *IMPORTANT* Applicants seeking a waiver must contact our offices BEFORE beginning their application. If a waiver is not granted prior to applying, the application will not be processed by the Graduate School. Masters Resources About the Masters Prerequisites Curriculum Course Plans Admissions It's Time to GO Public! Get the knowledge and skills you need to face today's challenges and tomorrow's opportunities. Contact Us Main office contact and location. Partners/Accredited by NASPAA Information regarding our NASPAA accreditation and partners. SUAPP Public and Nonprofit Administration is a part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .