#http://www.memphis.edu/presweb/communications/rudd2014-6-2.php
Letter from President Rudd - Office of the President - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Office of the President About Mission and Plan Communications Leadership Contact Communications from the President's Office President's Report Home Office of the President Communications Letter from President Rudd Letter from President Rudd Dear Colleagues: It is an honor to have been selected as the 12th president of the University of Memphis. Although challenging, this past year has been tremendously rewarding. Because of your hard work and dedication, we have made great progress in resolving one the most significant financial challenges in the history of the University of Memphis. In doing so, we have positioned the University for future growth, empowering academic leaders and faculty at the college, department and program levels. We are working to implement a strategic resource investment budget model ( ) that we expect will enable us to respond more effectively to a rapidly changing higher education landscape. The university has a bright future and is poised to make great strides for our students, our employees, the local community, the state of Tennessee, and beyond. We are making progress on achieving the operational goals of growing enrollment, increasing graduation rates, expanding funded research, along with establishing and strengthening partnerships with the community. As has already been shared, this past year witnessed impressive numbers of graduates, both at the undergraduate and graduate levels. We have held tuition flat for the first time in more than two decades. Please join me in thanking President Martin for his leadership, generosity and grace exhibited over the past year. Meeting our enrollment goal is a critical strategic focus. As you are likely aware, one of the metrics that we use to predict enrollment for the upcoming academic year is the number of admission applications. I am pleased to tell you that, as of today, applications received were at the highest point in the history of the University of Memphis. Well over 14,000 students have applied to the U of M, an increase of 82% over the 2013-14 academic year. We anticipate that these numbers for the upcoming year will continue to increase. Now the challenge is to translate these admission applications into a greater number of students enrolled at both of our campuses, along with those participating remotely. Orientation registrations are currently well ahead of last year (up 400 as of this week). As you know, with improved graduation numbers we'll be challenged to bring in greater numbers of first-time freshman and transfer students, both of which look promising. Although a bold goal, I genuinely believe we can increase the six-year graduation rate to 55%, above the national average. In 2010, the U of M had a rate of 37.10%. Changes to support programming and curriculum redesign efforts have increased this rate to 44.2% as of fall 2013. This year we experienced significant gains that will certainly move the six-year rate even higher. Achievement of this goal is critical to our overall mission and essential for our students. Our efforts will continue to expand as we develop a range of programs (peer mentoring, academic coaching, writing center, degree pathways and a co-op program) targeting the diverse groups of students we serve: first-time freshman, students with 90+ hours of coursework, veterans, online learners, part-timers, returning adults, and other non-traditional students. It is important for the University of Memphis to realize funded research of $100 million in order to achieve the highest research classification awarded by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching – Research University/Very High Research Activity. This designation is consistent with our goal of being recognized as one of America's great metropolitan research universities. We have the faculty talent in place to make this happen and we are making new investments in improving our research infrastructure to better support their work. Not only is realizing this goal consistent with our core mission, it will have significant impact on Memphis in general and result in improved long-term state funding levels for the University. Engagement is at the heart of a great metropolitan research university. We will continue to expand our connections to Memphis, building on existing relationships and developing new ones. As you know, our Key-30 effort (targeting the top 30 employers in Memphis) will grow to Key 50 this year and to Key 75 next year. Our development efforts will also expand, including efforts to grow our relationships with national foundations. Chief among our efforts are to build a new research facility and a music building. Your leadership team is committed, talented and passionate about the University of Memphis, our mission, students and the community. Please join me in thanking and welcoming: Interim Provost, Dr. Karen Weddle-West; Vice President of Student Affairs, Dr. Rosie Phillips-Bingham; Vice President of Business and Finance, Mr. David Zettergren; Interim Vice President of Research, Dr. Andy Meyers; Chief Information Officer, Ms. Ellen Watson; Legal Counsel, Ms. Melanie Murry; Athletic Director, Mr. Tom Bowen; and Consultant to the President, Mr. Charles Burkett. We are currently working on our core leadership values statement, something we'll share with the campus before the academic year begins. Brief biographies and photos of each are included below. University leadership will rely on input from faculty, staff, students and constituents to identify issues, suggest improvements, and develop strategies to help us achieve our goals. I will follow up with subsequent communications as planning unfolds. We have a great opportunity to be bold, innovative and strategic in our thinking and approach. I look forward to working with you and hearing from you in the coming years. Please feel free to contact me at president@memphis.edu with suggestions, concerns and questions. Communications from the President's Office President's Report Dashboard UofM steps towards success Year of Service Initiative Learn how your service hours can provide scholarships for students! President's Blog News, stories, videos and more Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .