#http://www.memphis.edu/imc/services/shandonprocessor.php
Tissue Processor for Paraffin Infiltration - IMC - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Integrated Microscopy Center Light/Electron Microscopy Materials Science Services Fees Staff Services Offered Histology Laboratory Tissue Processing for Histology Tissue Processor for Paraffin Infiltration Paraffin Tissue Embedding Station Microtomes Automated Stainer for Paraffin Tissue Sections Cryostat More Information about Histology Services Histology Laboratory Services Advice for Specimen Submission Histology Lab Contact Home IMC Services Tissue Processor for Paraffin Infiltration Shandon Citadel 2000 Tissue Processor Brief Description The Shandon Citadel 2000 tissue processor is an automatic tissue processor with a rotary, carousel design. This processor has a circular, carousel arrangement of stationary reagents and a rotating head. Tissue cassettes are loaded into a basket on the rotating head where they are transferred sequentially around the series of reagent containers. It has 9- 10 reagent baths and 2-3 wax positions, with a capacity of 30-110 cassettes. Another feature of the automated tissue processor is the ability to provide fluid agitation which is achieved by vertical oscillation or rotary motion of the tissue basket. Processing schedules can be programmed according to the specific needs of various tissues using a digital touch-pad. This allows maximum flexibility in the choice of reagents as well as, the amount of time the tissue remains in each reagent bath. Tissue transfer processors can accommodate a wide range of solvents, fixatives and relatively viscous nitrocellulose solutions. These machines have a rapid turn-around time for day/night processing. Click here to learn more about the Shandon Citadel 2000 Processor Applications This instrument is an essential component of the Histology Laboratory. The main goal of tissue processing is to remove any water present in the tissues and replace the water with a medium that will adequately support and solidify the tissue making it possible to cut thin sections on the microtome. More specifically, processing of tissues is completed during three stages, where each stage must be of sufficient length to ensure completeness. Dehydration –removes fixative and water from the tissue and replaces them with dehydrating fluid, typically ethanol. Clearing – replaces the dehydrating fluid with a fluid that is totally miscible with both the dehydrating fluid and the embedding medium. Infiltration – replaces the clearing agent with the embedding medium. Paraffin wax is most often the embedding medium used for histology tissue preparation. This wax renders the tissue firm enough to enable thin sections to be cut, at the same time, the tissue is soft (not so hard) to enable the microtome knife to cut the sections. The embedding medium has to thoroughly permeate the tissue in fluid form so that it solidifies without any damage to the tissue. Services Offered Histology Laboratory Tissue Processing for Histology Tissue Processor for Paraffin Infiltration Paraffin Tissue Embedding Station Microtomes Automated Stainer for Paraffin Tissue Sections Cryostat More Information about Histology Services Histology Laboratory Services Advice for Specimen Submission Histology Lab Contact Contact Us Main office contacts and locations Make a Reservation To reserve a session for IMC equipment, please login to our calendar using the user ID and password provided by the IMC staff. Division of Research and Sponsored Programs The RSP assists faculty and staff with the development of proposals to obtain research funding through externally sponsored programs. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .