#http://www.memphis.edu/parking/tigerpark.php
Parking and Transportation Services - Parking &amp; Transportation Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parking and Transportation Services Staff Directory Permit &amp; Other Parking Lambuth/Millington Parking Resources Home Parking &amp; Transportation Services Parking and Transportation Services Don't wait in line. Go online! Now taking care of parking is easier than ever. Our new online store, TigerPark, is up and running — giving you easy access to view or buy permits, submit online appeals and manage your parking account online. Accessing TigerPark Students, faculty/staff and employees of the University can access TigerPark through the myMemphis portal. Guests may login through the TigerPark Guest Account Login . PDF Tutorial for Purchasing a Visitor Permit Online TigerPark allows students only to: View your citations View your permit View your appeals Appeal citations This feature allows students to appeal citations online. TigerPark requires the citation number and license plate number to appeal a citation. You have 15 working days to appeal a citation online. After 15 days, you will no longer have access to online appeals. For questions, please contact Parking &amp; Transportation Services, 120 Zach Curlin Parking Garage or phone us at (901)678.2212. Additional information regarding your appeal(s) (follow the Citation Dockets option to locate the decision of your appeal). Purchase permits This feature allows students to purchase priority, evening, and resident parking permits online. Permits are restricted according to sub-classification. Contact the Parking &amp; Transportation Services Office at 901.678.2212 if you do not see the correct permit number on your account. If your permit has been lost or stolen there is a $10 replacement fee and you must come to the Parking &amp; Transportation Services Office to pay the fee and acquire a new parking pass. TigerPark User Survey TigerPark allows faculty/staff and other employees to: View your citations View your permit View your appeals Appeal citations This feature allows faculty/staff members to appeal citations online. TigerPark requires the citation number and license plate number to appeal a citation. You have 15 working days to appeal a citation online. After 15 days, you will no longer have access to online appeals. For questions, please contact the Parking &amp; Transportation Services Office, 120 Zach Curlin Parking Garage or phone us at 901.678.2212. Faculty/staff and other employees have the option of appearing before the Faculty/Staff Traffic Appeals Committee. The committee meets the last Thursday of every month at 1:30 pm in Room 131 in Parking &amp; Transportation Services at 120 Zach Curlin. Individuals who desire to show up in person must appear no later than 2:00 pm in order to have their case heard. TigerPark Training Purchasing permits for faculty/staff and other employees : Unfortunately only students can purchase parking permits online at this time. Faculty/staff and other employees must purchase parking by the month or apply for payroll deduction in person, by visiting us in the Parking &amp; Transportation Services Office located at 120 Zach Curlin Parking Garage. We will process your request quickly and have you done in no time! TigerPark Don’t wait in line…Go online! The Blue Line The Blue Line shuttle at the University of Memphis. Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place. Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .