#http://www.memphis.edu/leadership/pdfs/el_brochure_final.pdf
The Emerging Leaders ProgramOFFICE OF STUDENT LEADERSHIP AND INVOLVEMENT 901.678.8679 · leadershipprograms@memphis.edu memphis.edu/leadership_programs A Tennessee Board of Regents institution. An Equal Opportunity/Af˜rmative Action University. PRINTER CODE Are you looking for leadership opportunities? Do you want an instant connection to your university?Are you looking for a scholarship to support your education goals?If so, then Emerging Leaders is for you!The Emerging Leaders Program was established in 1983 and has had nearly 800 participants. It is a comprehensive leadership experience guided by current leadership research and includes: Campus involvement Program-speci˜c coursework Guest speakers Internship experienceorkshops Community service Career preparation Guiding PhilosophyLiving Learning CommunityApplication InformationCareerHere are just a few examples of where Emerging Leaders have grown as interns:ConnectionEmerging Leaders graduates will view leadership as a relational process that may be enhanced by formal position but is not contingent upon it. Graduates will act upon the opportunity to exercise leadership from anywhere within a team or community. They will utilize integrity, communication, critical thought and comprehensive knowledge of leadership research as their tools to enhance relationships, commit to lifelong personal development and contribute to positive social change.As Freshmen, Emerging Leaders live on campus and share a residence hall community. It is a place where our ˜rst-year students make lasting friendships, successfully transition into life as college students and engage in the common goal of personal development.Employers want to hire new graduates who are highly competent and excel in the classroom; they also seek employees with a proven ability to succeed in various environments with diverse groups of people. Emerging Leaders are those graduates. All Emerging Leaders participate in some type of mentoring program and complete at least one internship. Those experiences help unlock the door to a brighter future by allowing students to begin building a professional network and preparing for the early stages that can lay the foundation for a successful career trajectory. Beyond internships and mentoring, portions of Emerging Leaders coursework drive professional development, and students have access to résumé and interview advice from program staff throughout the four years of the program and after graduation. Participation in this highly selective program is limited to 50 new, ˜rst-year students each fall semester. New applications are available each fall and must be submitted by early February. An interview process may also be involved.Minimum eligibility requirements are a 3.0 cumulative high school GPA (on a 4.0 scale) and a 21 ACT or comparable SAT score. Students also complete an application demonstrating their high school involvement and interest in leadership education.For in-state students and border-county students, the scholarship is valued (as of June 2014) at $5,500 and is applied in two equal disbursements. In addition to the $5,500, a limited number of out-of-state tuition grants are also available to eliminate the difference between in-state and out-of-state costs.Emerging Leaders become Memphis Tigers and develop key skills and university pride through campus involvement. Students will participate in at least two of over 200 possible student organizations; however, the connection to campus begins earlier than that. All new Emerging Leaders attend New Student Orientation and Frosh Camp. Additionally, a retreat is held for all incoming Emerging Leaders, and an upperclassman is paired with each new member of the program to assist with the transition into college. Le Bonheur Children™s Hospital United States Attorney™s Of˜ceRIDGES Wright Medical Technology The Tennessee State Legislature Memphis Symphony Orchestra St. Jude Children™s Research HospitalApplications can be obtained at memphis.edu/leadership_programs/ emerging.php , or by contacting the Of˜ce of Student Leadership and Involvement at 901.678.8679 or studentleadership@memphis.edu. The Emerging Leaders Program