#http://www.memphis.edu/leadership/emerging/faqs.php
Emerging Leaders Frequently Asked Questions - UofM LEAD - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UofM LEAD Emerging Leaders TLI Conferences Professional Development Social Change Emerging Leaders Current Emerging Leaders Overview 1st Year Obligations 2nd Year Obligations 3rd Year Obligations 4th Year Obligations Prospective Emerging Leaders Overview Application 1st Year Obligations Families Frequently Asked Questions Brochure Home UofM LEAD Emerging Leaders Emerging Leaders Frequently Asked Questions Emerging Leaders Frequently Asked Questions What is the scholarship amount? For in-state or border county students, the scholarship is $5,500 per year, and it is split between fall and spring semester installments. Out-of-state students can also receive an amount to pay the difference between in-state and out-of-state tuition. This amount can vary because of the 250R vs. fully out-of-state charges. How many spaces are available? The program can accept up to 50 students with each incoming freshman class. A portion of those spaces are available to out-of-state students. Does Emerging Leaders have a separate application process? Yes. If you look at the prospective EL page, a copy of the application is available year-round; however, the most current version is only available from October 1st-February 1st. By February 1st, a high school senior must have submitted the application to be considered for the program. A review of all applications begins after that deadline. How does the selection process work? All completed applications are reviewed. Due to application volume, we are unable to commit to communicating when an application has been received so your student may want to contact us a week after mailing the application to confirm its arrival. The review process takes a look at all application components and utilizes a rubric to assign scores to the essays, high school involvement, recommendation forms, and academics of all candidates. At the end of that review, about 150 candidates are invited to interview with program staff and students. A standard interview protocol is employed for all interviews, including phone interviews is a candidate lives too far away to travel to campus. Interviews last about 10 minutes, but they help a great deal for the final selections. Once all interviews have been completed, a final review of all application materials occurs. Applicants are informed of selections soon thereafter. From the February 1st application deadline through to the initial round of selections, the process takes between 6 and 8 weeks. All applicants should anticipate some response by the end of March. What does the program require? When a student is selected, that student will receive a letter that outlines next steps. All Emerging Leaders live on campus as freshmen, in a residence hall community. Incoming ELs must attend New Student Orientation and Frosh Camp. Finally, a retreat is mandatory for all new students; however, that does not occur until students move on campus in August. Once a student arrives on campus, the obligations are different for each year in the program, but they include special coursework, student involvements, professional development, community service, and leadership speaker attendance. A thorough review for each year is available on the Current EL webpage. For some, it may sound like an overwhelming amount of requirements, but it should take most an average of 3-5 hours per week. Students are guided through their program experiences by staff members and upperclassmen. Emerging Leaders Current Emerging Leaders Overview 1st Year Obligations 2nd Year Obligations 3rd Year Obligations 4th Year Obligations Prospective Emerging Leaders Overview Application 1st Year Obligations Families Frequently Asked Questions Brochure Contact UofM LEAD Find out more about the variety of opportunities we offer you! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .