#http://www.memphis.edu/presweb/communications/rudd2014-5-1.php
M. David Rudd Named President of The University of Memphis - Office of the President - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Office of the President About Mission and Plan Communications Leadership Contact Communications from the President's Office President's Report Home Office of the President Communications M. David Rudd Named President of The University of Memphis M. David Rudd Named President of The University of Memphis May 1, 2014 - M. David Rudd was named the 12th president of the University of Memphis today when the Tennessee Board of Regents approved the recommendation of Chancellor John Morgan. He succeeds Shirley Raines, who was president from 2001-2013, and University of Memphis alumnus and business executive R. Brad Martin, who has served as interim president since July 1, 2013. "I look forward to leading the University of Memphis into the next chapter in its storied history, to supporting and serving our students, continuing our excellence in the classroom, expanding vibrant and impactful research, and strengthening our ties to the city of Memphis," said Rudd, immediately after the board's vote. "Dr. Rudd is committed to the University and has a strong vision for its future," said Morgan. "He has worked closely with the interim president over the past year, and the work they have done in a short period of time has been notable." Rudd, who has served as the University's provost since March 2013, brings a distinguished record to the position. As the University's chief academic officer, he has been involved in all aspects of University operations, including business and finance, community relations, research, athletics and development. He has spearheaded an effort to increase student recruitment, retention and degree completion, which has already shown substantial results. "I am thrilled with the selection of David Rudd as president of the U of M. During this past year, he has proven to be an outstanding leader and a great partner for me in intensifying the University's focus on student success, valuable research and effective service," said Martin. "He is committed to the significant role the University has in building a bright future for this community, and I am grateful he will lead this important institution." Rudd's administrative and teaching experience spans almost 30 years in roles in Texas and Utah. Before being named provost at the U of M, he was dean of the College of Social and Behavioral Science at the University of Utah from 2009-2013. While there, he helped the college recover from a $1 million debt to a surplus of more than $3 million through targeted restructuring, improved accountability and efficiency measures. Before joining the University of Utah, Rudd was professor and chair of the Department of Psychology at Texas Tech from 2006-2009. He was professor and chair of the Department of Psychology at Baylor University in 2004-2005 and spent the previous four years as a professor and director of Baylor's doctoral program in Clinical Psychology. He also was a faculty member at Texas A&amp;M College of Medicine. Throughout his career, Rudd has been responsible in part for more than $18 million in research grant funding, including more than $3 million for research to help military populations through the U.S. Army/Department of Defense Military Operational Medicine Research Program. He has continued his affiliation with the National Center for Veterans Studies at the University of Utah as co-founder and scientific director, a role that has garnered much national attention. Rudd has testified seven times before the U.S. Congress on issues related to veterans and suicide. He earned a Ph.D. in psychology from the University of Texas at Austin and holds a master's degree in psychology from there as well. He holds a bachelor's degree from Princeton University. Rudd was selected as president of the University of Memphis after a national search that resulted in more than 70 applicants. He and his wife, Dr. Loretta Rudd, an associate professor (clinical) at the U of M, have two children, Nicholas and Emma. Communications from the President's Office President's Report Dashboard UofM steps towards success Year of Service Initiative Learn how your service hours can provide scholarships for students! President's Blog News, stories, videos and more Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .