#http://www.memphis.edu/mlche/
The Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics - MLCHE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics About Programs Students Faculty &amp; Staff Research News Home MLCHE Center News October 2015 The Center has released a third Health Policy Blog titled, "Health Insurance Exchanges: Who in Tennessee has Enrolled?" It examines the participation of Tennesseans in the federal Health Insurance Exchange, the role of federal subsidies in insurance participation, and how the Exchange enrollment has impacted the uninsured in Tennessee. To read it, click here . August 2015 The Center has released a second Health Policy Blog titled, “Variations in Health Care Charges: Does Anyone Know How Much It Will Cost?” To read it, click here . July 2015 The Center is pleased to announce a new series of online publications – Health Care Blogs. The short reports will focus on assessing the relevance of new findings on the health care system financing and functions to Tennessee. They will appear periodically and can be accessed through the Center's web site. Comments from readers will be welcome using the e-mail addresses included in each report. The first report focuses on the adequacy of the primary care physician supply in Tennessee. In addition to providing data on the size and composition the physician workforce, the essay considers the health and economic consequences of the current and future gap between primary care demand and supply. To download the report, click here . The Center has released a new Research Brief titled, “Visitors to Hospital Emergency Rooms: Who, Why, and How Much Do They Cost?” To read the Research Brief, click here . June 2015 Dr. Cyril Chang's op-ed article, co-authored with Dr. David Mirvis, appeared in the June 29th edition of the Memphis Commercial Appeal. It explained the implications of the most recent Supreme Court case and cautioned that the King v. Burwell ruling supporting the ACA was only one step, albeit an important one, on the road to a truly effective health care system. To read the op-ed article, click here . February 2015 The Center will host Dr. Marjie Harbracht of HealthTeamWorks, a Denver-based multi-stakeholder collaborative working to redesign healthcare delivery system, as speaker for the Health Care Research Journal Club. She will discuss patient-centered medical homes on February 25, 2015, at the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. For more information, click here . October 2014 The Center has updated its TennCare Timeline to include major events and milestones to October 2014. Read it here . August 2014 The Center has made available sources of useful information on the impacts of ObamaCare reform on Tennessee and the Memphis area. Use this link to access them . June 2014 Shelby County Health Statistics The County Health Rankings &amp; Roadmaps is a collaborative program between the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and the University of Wisconsin Population Health Institute . Visit this site for health statistics for the 95 counties in Tennessee and their rankings. Here are two useful reports about Shelby County, Tennessee. Here and Here . April 2014 Dr. Chang, the Director of Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics, was quoted at length in an April 9, 2014 , Memphis Commercial Appeal article by reporter Kevin McKenzie about the release of Medicare doctor reimbursement data by the Center of Medicare and Medicaid. This was followed by a second article in the Nashville paper, the Tennessean, on the same topic on 04/09/2014 . Four days later on 04/13/2014 , The Chattanooga Press Free Press published a long news analysis article on the controversy surrounding the release of Medicare doctor data and quoted Dr. Chang extensively. October 2013 Dr. Cyril Chang, The Director of the Center, published an op-ed article on health care and free market. The article appeared in the October 13, 2013, edition of the Memphis Commercial Appeal. Click here to read . The Center was in the news. Reporter Kevin McKenzie of the Memphis Commercial Appeal quoted the Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics at length in an article about high-deductible health plans. Click here to read . [ News Archive ] Mailing Lists MLCHE now has several topic-based mailing lists, including alerts for new publications. Please visit the Contact Us page for more information and to sign up. About Us What does the MLCHE do? Your first step starts here! Publications Stay connected with our research-active faculty. Click here to see some of our most recent publications. Staff and Associates Learn more about the people that compose the MLCHE! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Follow Us Online Twitter Facebook Event Calendar Support the FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .