#http://bf.memphis.edu/fecc/catering.php
Fogelman Executive Conference Center &amp; Hotel Home | Quick Facts | Conference Benefits | Request for Proposal | Contact Us You do not have the Flash plugin installed, or your browser does not support or have Javascript enabled. Please update your Flash Player. You must have version 6.0 or higher to view the flash content. Get Adobe Player . About Us Floor Plans &amp; Capacity Chart Frequently Asked Questions Holiday Inn Brochure Guest Room Accommodations Meetings &amp; Events Meetings Request for Proposal Floor Plans &amp; Capacity Chart Conference Center Concept &amp; Benefits Catering &amp; Dining Catering Request for Proposal Floor Plans &amp; Capacity Chart Menus Weddings Catering Request for Proposal Floor Plans &amp; Capacity Chart Menus Map &amp; Directions At the Fogelman Executive Conference Center and Hotel our European- Trained Executive Chef reigns supreme. Catering Request for Proposal Menus Weddings Floor Plans &amp; Space Capacity Charts Catering &amp; Dining From elegantly plated dishes to Viennese dessert buffets, food service at the Fogelman Executive Conference Center and Hotel is superb. Weddings, fundraisers and galas are flawlessly executed. Beautiful catering venues and a banquet staff under the eye of our Food & Beverage Director, Dan Bamrick, who holds an A.O.S. degree in Hospitality and Foodservice Management from the Culinary Institute of America, Hyde Park, New York promise unforgettable events. He approaches every new opportunity with energy and creativity. He is wonderful at his craft and loves to consult with clients and charm their guests. In addition, his banquet staff is properly trained, and as eager to please. For intimate dinners for 10 in the private Wine Cellar or galas of 1,000 in the Grand Ballroom, the Fogelman Executive Conference Center and Hotel is the choice site of discriminating planners, families and organizations. From lighting to table linens, Weddings and Events at the Fogelman Executive Conference Center and Hotel are beautiful. From entry into the atrium lobby with rich woodwork and fine leather furnishings to the Grand Ballroom with three dance floors, wedding and event guests know they are attending something special. Event planning is easy as our catering staff is well-seasoned and knows how to execute exciting and flawless events. Fogelman Dining Room This newly decorated dining room offers just the right atmosphere for dining. Daily buffets allow meeting planners the flexibility to break for lunch or dinner when the program allows not just when the kitchen is ready. Lunch and Dinner Buffets include fruit and salad bars, soup, three entrees, two vegetables, a dessert bar, ice cream bar and beverages. Conference attendees are continually delighted with variety as the buffets change daily. Private dining for groups is also offered in the Private Dining Room, the Commons, or the First Floor Atrium. Medallion Dining Room The Medallion Restaurant and Lounge are conveniently located in the Holiday Inn hotel. Open for Breakfast, Lunch and Dinner this restaurant offers buffet meals and a la carte continental cuisine. The Medallion Restaurant has a private dining room and the Wine Cellar for groups and executive dining. This restaurant has received many awards and mentions for its Sunday Buffets, Holiday Buffets and banquet offerings. The Medallion Lounge is the perfect setting for a quiet drink or a place to network with conference attendees. Our friendly bartenders and wide screen TV make the Medallion Lounge a comfortable place after a day of meetings. Grand Ballroom The Grand Ballroom with its rich woods and striking lighting is unique in that it has a permanent stage and three wood inlay dance floors. The room holds up to 1,000 people and can be sectioned into three smaller rooms to provide the right atmosphere for any size function. The Grand Ballroom is equipped with three LCD projectors and a sound system to handle any size band or presentation. The Grand Foyer is an ideal setting for pre-function cocktails and offers an elegant entry into the Grand Ballroom. Fogelman Executive Conference Center &amp; Hotel Business Office 330 Innovation Drive, Suite 206 Memphis, Tennessee 38152 Ph: 901/678-5410 | Fax: 901/678-5329 Reservations: 901/678-5410 Group Sales: 901/678-2021 Comments &amp; Suggestions | Important Notice | U of M Home Site maintained by Business &amp; Finance Last update: 02/02/2015