#http://www.memphis.edu/logo/web-guidelines/socialmediahandbook.pdf
U of M Social Media Handbook Page 1 of 17 Revised: 11/12/2014 Revised: 11/12/2014 U of M Social Media Handbook Page 2 of 17 Revised: 11/12/2014 Revised: 11/12/2014 Table of Contents 1!Social Media Strategy 3!1.1 Comprehensive Strategy 3!1.2 Goals 3!1.3 Strategy at work 5!2!Social Media Policy 6!3!Employee Social Media Policy 7!3.1 Overview 7!3.2 Account Deadwood 7!3.3 Account Name 7!3.4 Account Administrator 7!3.5 Personal Accounts 8!3.6 Posting Medical Conditions 8!3.7 Athletic Related Posts 8!3.8 Emergency Co mmunications 8!3.9 Monitoring 8!3.10 Moderating 9!3.11 Privacy 9!3.12 Content 9!3.13 Terms of Service 10!3.14 Guidelines 10!4!Student Social Media Policy 11!4.1 Overview 11!5!Social Media Guidelines and ÒHow ToÓ 13!5.1 Social Media Forum 13!5.2 Social Media Platforms and Directory 13!5.3 Getting Started 13!5.4 Posting Requests 14!6!Helpful Resour ces 16! U of M Social Media Handbook Page 3 of 17 Revised: 11/12/2014 Revised: 11/12/2014 1 Social Media Strategy 1.1 Comprehensive Strategy The overall strategy is one that organizes the University of Memphis social media efforts and incorporates social media as an integral piece of the UniversityÕs overall c ommunication strategy. By all University departments working in concert, social media avenues allow for discussion of University initiatives, engagement of alumni and donors , recruitment of students and creation of dialogue surrounding our community and e ducational efforts. Clearly, social media is not a one size fits all. The message for each platform and audience will need adaptation to best align with how followers interact. Senior alumni do not use social media as frequently as the 90+ hours current student segment, new grads segment and growing families segment (Classes of 1992 -present). Social media influencers will need to be directly engaged and designated from the observers. 1.2 Goals 1. Create a collaborative and comprehensive campus -wide branding a nd social media environment. a. Create and coordinate the University Branding Council comprised of members from across the University community. Working with the Office of the President and University Communications, the Council will create policy and brand ing standards and review marketing campaigns from all the areas of campus to ensure that University messaging and priorities are consistent. b. Organize meetings of the social media coordinators from throughout the campus and e nsure that all account administ rators are informed of policies and University priorities. c. Form a Social Media Forum Team to c reate an approval/review process for all University social media accounts and review all current accounts for policy standards alignment. d. Implement best practi ces policies for all University accounts, publish those policies on the web and notify accounts of policies. e. Create a University of Memphis Social Media Directory and publicize existence of such when all official accounts have been reviewed and notified o f policies. f. Develop standard hashtags to fuel conversations regarding the University - specifically on Twitter and Instagram. 2. Enforce and strengthen the University of Memphis brand through social media. a. Advance likes, retweets, followers, pins, etc. wi th an increased percentage tied to each platform thereby increasing audience awareness of brand. U of M Social Media Handbook Page 4 of 17 Revised: 11/12/2014 Revised: 11/12/2014 b. Use monitoring tools to measure engagement and reach. These tools will verify the success gained or lost by tailoring the message to a particular audience on a specific social media platform . c. Coordinate the ÒlookÓ of each University account to make sure trademarks and school colors are displayed appropriately. Safeguard consistency in style and priorities for social media across campus while recognizing the need to tailor each account for most cohesive tone and look. d. Participate in trending topics to position the University as a cred ible and informed source recogn izing that trust and audiences d o not occur immediately. e. Increase exposure of social media acco unts by the use of traditional media Ð print ads, websites, etc. f. Share key university news and messages, and engage audiences Ð do not just make announcements. E nsure that social media remains social. g. Install social media messaging boards in heavily tra fficked student areas to increase student engagement, awarene ss of U niversity social media and build a vivacious social media presence. 3. Use social media platforms as retention vehicles to strengthen the ÒexperienceÓ of the University of Memphis students, faculty, staff and alumni. a. Answer or direct questions to the appropriate U of M offices with confirmation of communication with the inquirer. b. Use keyword searches on social networks to monitor conversations and respond accordingly. c. Develop plans for e mergency notifications and situational messaging for the students, staff, faculty, parents of students and the communities we serve. 4. Monitor and respond to social media trends, joining new platforms and transitioning away from outdated ones, sustaining re sources and keeping audiences engaged. a. Keep sites dynamic in order to maintain a robust audience and question a unitÕs audience and goals to insure the best use of resources. b. Meet with local national companies (AutoZone, FedEx) to discuss what platforms they are using and what trends they are experiencing. 5. Be a thought leader in social media. a. Use the social media platforms as a way to demonstrate to others that the University of Memphis is an influencer in public discussions. b. Gain respect and trust by taking place as an invited guest in conversations concerning the University of Memphis. U of M Social Media Handbook Page 5 of 17 Revised: 11/12/2014 Revised: 11/12/2014 c. Create content designed to stimulate positive discussion and engagement about the University of Memphis. d. Handle controversy immediately, transparently and positively . LISTEN to our constituents. e. Solicit feedback and conduct information polls to enhance the reputation of the University of Memphis social media presence as a vital forum for conversation. 1.3 Strategy at W ork To build a dynamic social media presence, the Un iversity will first organize and review its current practices and accounts. From there, the newly created University Branding Council and Social Media Forum Team will review best p ractices and the strategy for our future through designing the roadmap for the image, content and goals concerning the University of Memphis branding and social media initiative. For questions, contact the !"#$%&'()$%*(%'+'(',-$!.()/ . U of M Social Media Handbook Page 6 of 17 Revised: 11/12/2014 Revised: 11/12/2014 2 Social Media Policy The University of Memph is invites communication interaction from users of social networking sites on University pages. Due to the fact that information guests choose to post on social media sites is available to anyone who visits them, discretion should be used when deciding wh ether to post personal information on these sites. Security cannot be guaranteed. Use of these sites is voluntary, and any guest using them assumes the risk associated with the use of social networking sites and agrees to release and hold harmless the Uni versity of Memphis for any claims, causes of action or damages that may arise relating to the guestÕs use of these sites. Comments and content posted by guests do not reflect the positions or opinions of the University of Memphis. The University reserves the right to remove any and all content and comments at its discretion. Content or comments the University deems to be unlawful, spam, and/or threatening against University of Memphis students, faculty, staff, alumni, guests, or others and/or to the Unive rsityÕs network or computing systems will be removed and reported to the site on which the content or comments appear and to the appropriate University offices. Additionally, there are specific conditions for University employees regarding athletic -relate d postings and the recognition of official University platforms. Content and/or comments that violate any University policy and content and/or comments intended to promote commercial products or services are not permitted under University policy and will be removed. The University encourages the reporting of infringing content to the appropriate social networking site according to each siteÕs terms of service. If you have questions about the University's social networks and/or this policy or should you wi sh to have your social media platform officially recognized by the University, please contact !"#$%&'()$%*(%'+'(',-$!.()/ . U of M Social Media Handbook Page 7 of 17 Revised: 11/12/2014 Revised: 11/12/2014 3 Employee Social Media Policy 3.1 Overview The University of Memphis provides and ma intains various forms of electronic communication, messaging agents and electronic facilities to include internal and external electronic mail, telephone voice mail, internet access and computer hardware and software. As a condition of providing the previ ously identified communications access to its employees, the University places restrictions on workplace use of the same. The policies outlined in this document are intended to provide and inform University employees with guidelines concerning the use of social media for University accounts. These policies apply to University faculty, staff and student employees that engage in social media for work -related purposes or who are asked to participate in social media by a University supervisor as part of their position responsibilities. These policies are intended to minimize risks for University account holders while maximizing user engagement through the creation of an effective social media strategy. It is not the intention of this policy to mandate the use of social media by University employees but intended to make employees aware of appropriate online conduct. These guidelines are not meant to imply restriction or diminishment of employee rights to free speech or to engage in protected activity under law. 3.2 Account Deadwood Should an account lie dormant or inactive for an extended time, the account administrator(s) will be notified by the University Social Media Coordinator concerning itsÕ status. Should an account continue in its dormancy, the account administrator(s) may be asked to inactivate the account in order to manage the University brand in a positive manner. 3.3 Account Name Whenever possible, the University of Memphis should be in the account name first, thereby allowing followers to find the ac count quickly and demonstrating a consistency among the social media platforms. Example: The University of Memphis Alumni Association. Check with the Coordinator of Social Media in the Office of University Communications before account creation at !"#$%&'()$%*(%'+'(',-$!.()/ . Accounts already established may stand with approval from the University in order to maintain followers. 3.4 Account Administrator Account administrators should not personally post o n an account, but should only do so as the voice of the department or organization. This maintains the privacy of the account administrator and preserves the consistency of professionalism for the unit. The exception to this guideline is when an individu al reaches ÒcelebrityÓ status and speaks for the University such as the Athletic Director, the Basketball Coach or the President. Account administrators and the University reserves the right to review all comments and posted materials and remove such mate rials for just reason and/or policy violation. U of M Social Media Handbook Page 8 of 17 Revised: 11/12/2014 Revised: 11/12/2014 3.5 Personal Accounts If you are communicating personally on social media platforms concerning University related subjects, it is necessary to identify yourself as an employee, that the opinions expressed are your personal views and the opinions do not necessarily reflect the views of the University of Memphis. University protected marks should not be used on personal accounts. 3.6 Posting Medical Conditions Never post personal details about an individualÕs medic al condition on social media outlets affiliated with the University. If the person is a public figure, contact !"#$%&'()$%*(%'+'(',-$!.()/ to draft a public statement about that individual. 3.7 Athletic Rela ted Posts Information posted directly by the Office of Athletics may be redistributed on official University social media platforms. As employees, it is best to avoid commentary on athletic related topics other than game outcomes and general comments conc erning attending or watching upcoming game and athletic activities. Per NCAA guidelines, employees and University accounts are prohibited from commenting or sharing any information on social media platforms regarding recruiting or the recruitment of speci fic student -athletes. Inappropriate postings and comments on athletic events and activities, student -athletes, coaches or the possible recruitment of student -athletes and coaches can have serious implications both for the employee(s) involved and for the University. Be mindful of NCAA sanctions and good sportsmanship conduct. For details or questions, contact the Athletic Department at (901) 678 -5395. 3.8 Emergency Communications If a campus emergency is unfolding, do not post speculative information about t he situation. For proper crisis communications response, p lease refer all traffic to the U niversityÕs official communication sources and notify !"#$%&'()$%*(%'+'(',-$!.()/ .00 If you discover erroneous inf ormation about an unfolding crisis, please contact !"#$%&'()$%*(%'+'(',-$!.()/ immediately. Each college/division will have one appointed contact person. This representative will be contacted in case of an emergency in order to share accurate information with the rest of the college/division social media administrators. Only then may emergency information be shared via social media. 3.9 Monitoring Account holders must monitor daily and update their accounts frequently (weekly is minimum) in order to create a robust and engaging environment for visitors. A rapid response to issues and questions must be a priority for the account holders. Should concerns arise whereby administrators should be notified, plea se contact the University Social Media Coordinator at !"#$%&'()$%*(%'+'(',-$!.()/ for immediate assistance. U of M Social Media Handbook Page 9 of 17 Revised: 11/12/2014 Revised: 11/12/2014 3.10 Moderating Comments must be absent of expletives, obscenity and vulgarity. Comments threatening in tone or evolving into personal attacks are to be deleted by account administrators. Posts with links for advertising should be removed as they violate University policy. Negative comments are to be expected and should not be removed unless deemed har mful. Negative comments can be addressed in a way that reflects positively on the University. If you are concerned about a negative post please contact the Social Media Coordinator at socialmediateam@memphi s.edu 3.11 Privacy The University monitors content on the web including social media platforms. University policies to be followed and applied to social media include, but are not limited to, standards of privacy, conduct, ethics, discrimination, harassmen t and bullying. The violation of University policy could subject the violator to corrective action. Such policies can be found at the links listed at the end of this document. 1. GENERAL PRIVACY GUIDELINES INCLUDE: "# $%&'()**+!%,+-!.(''(/!0$123!40"%5') !$6,7"-5(8"'!159:-+!"86! 2;5 !?@233!4?*"'-:!@8+,;"87*!2(;-"A5'5-)!"86!377(,8-"A5'5-)! 37-=!"86!BC33!4B"-5(8"'!C(''*95"-*!3-:'*-57!3++(75"-5(8=!9,56*'58*+# !A# 366;*++*+>!&:(8*!8,%A*;+>!7;*65-!7";6!58.(;%"-5(8>!+(75"'!+*7,;5-)! 8,%A*;+!"86!*%"5'!"66;*++*+ !";*!8(-!-(!A*!,&'("6*6>!+:";*6>! -;"8+%5--*6!(;!&(+-*6# !7# D(!8(-!&(+-!5%"9*+!(.!5865<56,"'+!/5-:(,-!-:*5;!7(8+*8-# ! 3.12 Content 1. GENERAL: Content should not be shown where - someone is being hurt, attacked or humiliated; any content that might be considered racist, bigoted or demeaning; activity that is or appears to be Illegal, activity that is dangerous (if so whereby a disclaimer might be needed) or any bad language or sexually explicit activity. 2. CONTROVERSIAL CONTENT AND ACADEMIC STUDY: Appropriate c ontext and disclaimers must be present and shown in such a way that reproduction includes such context and disclaimers. 3. COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS/SERVICES: The endorsement of commercial products or services is prohibited unless approved via the U of M Office of Business and Finance in accordance with University policies and procedures. For information contact the Office of Business and Finance at (901) 678 -2121. 4. RELIGIOUS VIEWS: The University of Memphis is a state University and does not endorse one sin gle religious belief. Comments on religion are best avoided. U of M Social Media Handbook Page 10 of 17 Revised: 11/12/2014 5. POLITICAL CAMPAIGNING: Endorsing political candidates is not permitted on University social media sites. The use of University resources to support individuals or parties in a political cam paign is prohibited. 6. COPYRIGHT/TRADEMARK: When creating an account for the University, there is an official mark used that is available on the website as the approved image. Approved official marks are not to be used on personal social media p latforms. If you have questions for use of other marks, please contact the Social Media Coordinator at !"#$%&'()$%*(%'+'(',-$!.()/ . Account holders are strongly encouraged to use school colors and photo graphy depicting the beauty and activity of the campus. For official colors, see 12$3(4!$*50"607(',-$!084%2)09*%2)%4)! . 3.13 Terms of Service Terms of each social media platform must be followed. 3.14 Guidelines 1. PROPERTY: All electronic communication systems, as well as the equipment and stored data , are and will remain the property of the University. Use of University resources are governed by the Acceptable Use of Information Technology Resources Policy. 2. ACCOUNT CREATION: Accounts created for a University department or organization may only be done so by a full time employee of the University. Student employees or graduate assistants may only be named as administrators if an additional full ti me University employee is also named. In the case of student organizations, a full time University employee must also be named. The Social Media Coordinator within the Office of University Communications must be notified of the account creation along wit h the account administrator information ( socialmediateam@memphis.edu ). The administrator(s) of the account are fully responsible for the actions taken using the account. In order to be recognized as an official University platform for your organization or department, University employees are required on each University account and the account, and its administrators, must be registered with the Social Media Coordinator in the Office of University Communi cations ( socialmediateam@memphis.edu ). U of M Social Media Handbook Page 11 of 17 Revised: 11/12/2014 4 Student Social Media Policy 4.1 Overview The University of Memphis recognizes that social networking has changed the way people communicate and that students wan t to be a part of this ever -changing platform. Social networking sites expand oneÕs reach immensely, and there are many valuable uses of these networks. Because social networking is so accessible and has blurred the lines between personal and private, there are a number of concerns with social networking sites of which students should be aware. Realize that information posted without using appropriate privacy settings may be available to anyone including University faculty, current or prospective emplo yers, graduate school admissions officers and many others. Students should conduct themselves in a way that exemplifies the socially responsible and honorable behavior expected of all University students. While the University encourages this online colla boration, provided are University policies and guidelines for appropriate online conduct in order to avoid the misuse of this communication medium. It is not the intention of this policy to mandate the use of social media by University students but intend ed to make students aware of appropriate online conduct. These guidelines are not meant to imply restriction or diminishment of student rights to free speech or to engage in protected activity under law. For questions, contact the socialmediateam@memphis.edu .001. ONLINE CAN MEAN FOREVER: Remember that what is posted is accessible long after it is removed. Comments can be forwarded or copied. Years from now current or prospective employers could fi nd post s that are created now. Graduate school admissions officers may use this information to ascertain maturity and professional growth of applicants. Do not let poor judgment now prevent the securing of a dream job in the future. 2. USE PRIVACY SETTINGS: Under stand and use the privacy settings on social networking sites; otherwise, personal information is available to the entire world. Do not provide personal identifying information such as date of birth, phone numbers, home addresses or class schedules. 3. BE CAREFUL: Be aware of who is added as a friend to a personal site. Do not allow others to create and manage accounts on your behalf unless you have total access to the logins, passwords and procedures for those accounts. 4. RESPECT OTHERS : DonÕt infringe on the privacy of friends, peers or University faculty. Never post personal information of others that could be embarrassing to them or the University. If posting photos, ask the permission of those involved. If someone objects to photography, avoid using it as a matter of common courtesy. U of M Social Media Handbook Page 12 of 17 Revised: 11/12/2014 5. FOLLOW THE RULES OF THE PLATFORM: Make sure the policies and terms of use of any social media outlet are understood. Read the terms of service before using. Displaying behavior that violates federal and/or state law(s) could have serious consequences that could have future affects. 6. FOLLOW UNIVERSITY POLICY: All University of Memphis student policies apply to social networking. Adhere to the student handbook (especially regarding academic honesty and student code of conduct) and any/all applicable student policies and standards of conduct. See University of Memphis Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities . 7. STUDENTS THAT WORK FOR THE UNIVERSITY: If a student works for the University and is communicating personally on social media platforms concerning University related subjects, it is necessary to identify yourself as an employee and that the opinions expressed are your personal views and the opin ions do not necessarily reflect the views of the University of Memphis. University protected marks should not be used on personal accounts. Additionally, as an employee, athletic Ðrelated posts must be handled with caution. Information posted directly b y the Office of Athletics may be redistributed on official University social media platforms and on personal platforms. As employees, it is best to avoid commentary on athletic related topics other than game outcomes and general comments concerning attend ing or watching upcoming game and athletic activities. Per NCAA guidelines, employees and University accounts are prohibited from commenting or sharing any information on social media platforms regarding recruiting or the recruitment of specific student -athletes. Inappropriate postings and comments on athletic events and activities, student -athletes, coaches or the possible recruitment of student -athletes and coaches can have serious implications both for the employee(s) involved and for the University. Be mindful of NCAA sanctions and good sportsmanship conduct. For details or questions, contact the Athletic Department at (901) 678 -5395. U of M Social Media Handbook Page 13 of 17 Revised: 11/12/2014 5 Social Media Guidelines and ÒHow ToÓ 5.1 Social Media Forum The Social Media Forum is made up of University empl oyees an d meets monthly at 9:30 a.m. every second Thursday of the month. Everyone is welcome to attend. The forum researches and evaluates social media platforms, educates on best practices, advises when questions arise and maintains the social media index which lists all officially recognized social media platforms of the University of Memphis. The Social Media Forum is an integral piece of the social media initiative on campus. If you have suggestions, questions or simply wish to open an official University soc ial media account, please e -mail !"#$%&'()$%*(%'+'(',-$!.()/ . 5.2 Social Media Platforms and Directory Currently, the social media platforms used by the University of Memphis are Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Instagram, Pinterest and YouTube. Other departments of the University of Memphis use additional platforms. These profiles use the University of Memphis logo to communicate to followers that the content is official University of Memphis information. Per mission of use of official University marks will only be given to University of Memphis employees that have reviewed the Social Media Employee Policy and the Social Media Forum Team Agreement. All such accounts are officially approved and sanctioned by th e University of Memphis through !"#$%&'()$%*(%'+'(',-$!.()/ . A complete listing of official University of Memphis social media platforms can be viewed through the University of Memphis Social Media Direct ory. 5.3 Getting Started 1. TELL US If you have created a University of Memphis social media presence, please let us know by sending a message to socialmediateam@memphis.edu . Designate a University employee f or representation on the Social Media Forum who is also an account administration for the platforms you are involved with. If you need assistance choosing a social media platform, please contact us for a recommendation. 2. BOTTOM LINE All official Univer sity accounts must have at least one University employee as an administrator that is registered with socialmediateam@memphis.edu . Account names and deadwood accounts will be coordinated through socialmediateam@memphis.edu in order to manage University branding and messaging. Never post a co -workerÕs health condition in social media. All athletic -related posts have NCAA implications for employees. Best to simply post information officially posted by the Office of Athletics. Posts with links for advertising violate University policy. All users must follow University policies concerning privacy, conduct, ethics, discrimination, harassment and bullying. Polit ical campaign endorsements are not permitted and comments on religious beliefs are best avoided. Responding to offensive language or inappropriate comments: U of M Social Media Handbook Page 14 of 17 Revised: 11/12/2014 a. The University of Memphis welcomes the communityÕs contributions (comments, photos, wall posts, etc.) to official University of Memphis Social Media outlets. Post the following statement on your official social media page when appropriate: b. ÒWe encourage civil debate about important ideas and respect commentersÕ freedom of speech. We reserve the r ight to remove all offensive and unrelated comments on our social media outlets. You can contact the administrator at [ insert contact e -mail address ]Ó 3. EMERGENCY COMMUNICATION If a campus emergency is unfolding, do not post speculative information about the situation. For proper crisis communications response, please refer all traffic to the universityÕs official communication sources and notify socialmediateam@memphis.edu . If you discover erroneous information about an unfolding crisis, please contact socialmediateam@memphis.edu immediately. 4. BEST PRACTICES a. Be transparent. Make it clear that you are blogging/Tweeting/Facebooking, etc. in your rol e as a staff member at the University of Memphis. IndividualsÕ use of social media can help to personalize the institution to the public. b. Listen and observe. Being a consumer of social media is essential to your ability to be a successful contributor. B y ÒlisteningÓ to online conversations, you can get an understanding of what is relevant and of interest to the community. c. Be active. Social media requires regular attention. If you donÕt have the time or resources to check your sites at least a few minu tes each day and to post fresh content several times a week, then reconsider jumping into social media. People will lose interest if they perceive the information or sitesÕ content to be stale. d. Participate and comment. If you are commenting as an offici al part of your job, be sure to indicate who you are and your affiliation with the University of Memphis. If you see a post that you think needs an official University of Memphis response, please contact socialmediateam@memphis.edu . Be prepared to accept and respond to comments on your site. Comments should be monitored regularly. Understand that not all comments will be positive. Respond to negative comments professionally and respectfully and provide ad ditional information that may help resolve the issue. 5.4 Posting Requests In order to have your post shared to the official University of Memphis social media accounts, please follow the steps below. 1. Email socialmediateam@memphis.edu your request 2. Give exact wording as well as attach links or graphics that go along with post 3. Specify on which platforms you would like posted (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn, etc.) 4. Specify what date you would like your information posted (Please give two dates to choose from, for scheduling purposes) 5. Give plenty of notice, a minimum of 5 days, if possible. The earlier a post is requested, the more likely it will be posted on your requested date. U of M Social Media Handbook Page 15 of 17 Revised: 11/12/2014 U of M Social Media Handbook Page 16 of 17 Revised: 11/12/2014 6 Helpful Resourc es 1. University of Memphis Acceptable Use of Information Technology Resources Policy 2. University of Memphis Brand Standards 3. University of Memphis Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities U of M Social Media Handbook Page 17 of 17 Revised: 11/12/2014