#http://www.memphis.edu/careerservices/students-alumni/internship-definition.php
What is an Internship? - Career Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Career Services About Students/Alumni Faculty/Staff Employers Students &amp; Alumni Appointments ACAD Career Unit Explore Career and Majors Going on to Graduate School Resumes Example Resumes Resumes/CVs Resume Builder Cover Letter Checklist Interview Tips Professional Dress Women Men Internships What is an Internship? Academic Internship Search Jobs/Internships TigerLink Tiger Success Institute Introduction Apply Workshop Information Home Career Services Student &amp; Alumni What is an Internship? What is an Internship? An internship is a practical work experience that is either directly related to your major field of study or career interest. Typically, you may work part-time during the fall or spring semester while you are enrolled in school or you may choose to work full time, taking a semester off from school. In addition, an internship may also be a six-month assignment. Keep in mind that, often, the internship time frame varies within industry and employers. This will be something to consider when conducting your internship search. We encourage you to be open to many possibilities. The Internship Experience As you graduate from The University of Memphis, you are about to enter a very competitive job market. There is no substitute for practical work experience to achieve this goal. Gaining practical, meaningful experience related to your career objectives will be essential to your success as a job candidate. Employers rate relevant work experience, as the most important criteria during the job selection process. In fact, 74% of all U.S. employers hire interns at some point. Internships are becoming increasingly popular each year. Ultimately, Career Services wants to make sure you are equipped with the necessary tools to land a job after graduation. Internship experiences will be an invaluable asset to you during the job search. What are other types of experiential education? Co-Op : A cooperative education experience is generally completed by a student over more than one semester. It includes work assignments related to the participant's academic and career interests. Co-Op students are almost always paid, and their work is considered productive to the employer. The typical program is for students to alternate terms of full-time classroom study with terms of full-time, discipline-related employment. Most co-op programs involve some sort of credit. Practicum : A practicum is generally a one-time work or service experience done by a student as part of an academic class. Some practicums offer pay, but many do not. Almost all are done for academic credit. Externships/Job Shadowing : An externship or job shadowing experience allows a student to spend between a day and seven weeks observing a professional on the job. Such experiences are unpaid. The experiences are usually not done for academic credit. What is the Value of an Internship? Career related work experience will be invaluable to you as you interview for full-time positions upon graduation. While typical student employment (not major or career related) such as on or off campus part-time work is good, there is no substitute for practical work experience. Practical work experience helps you become more focused and allows you to view a company or organization's environment. BENEFITS of Interning: Gaining experience in your field Making yourself more marketable during the recruiting process Earning money to pay for your education and living expense Learning about corporate culture Identifying specific interest areas in your field Becoming more knowledgeable about your field and more confident in your full-time job search Getting your foot in the door for possible full-time employment Gaining transferable skills which will add value to your full-time job search How do I Learn More about Internship Opportunities? First you must create a profile and upload your resume into eRecruiting. This will allow you to participate in on-campus interviews and receive target email messages about new internship resources and internships. Be sure to attend the annual Career and Internship Expo each fall. Do not miss this opportunity to talk to employers who are seeking students for internships and full-time jobs. Have your resume prepared and reviewed by a CS professional prior to attending the Career and Internship Expo. Take a look at the Summer Job and Internship Resources available for your use in our Career Library. There is an abundance of information about internships both nationally and internationally. Check out the Internships-USA database, by contacting Career Services. Learn how to gain access to the site by using the University of Memphis ID and password. This database contains over 3,000 current internship listings and contact names by function and geographic region. In addition to the Internships-USA website, also explore other Internship and Summer Job Opportunity Websites where you will find a wealth of websites leading to information about various types of career related work. Use the websites as a beginning point to conduct research on your desired career field. Where else can I learn about Internships? Be sure to check with your academic department and/or advisor for information and/or postings. Also check with them regarding academic credit for internships By Networking! Discuss your internship search with friends, family, current/former employers, classmates, faculty members, and other contacts you can pursue. You may learn about internships through newspapers, newsletters, job fairs, work/study abroad programs, professional associations, student organizations, volunteer groups and many more... Use the Web! Discover even more possibilities via the internet and web resources mentioned above. Reminder: Be sure that your resume and cover letter are both complete and professional prior to researching and applying for internships. Internship and Summer Job Opportunity Sites... GET THAT GIG NEW YORK CITY INTERNSHIPS ENVIRONMENTAL INTERNSHIPS INTERNATIONAL INTERNSHIPS FEDERAL INTERNSHIPS Internship Timeline Three Semesters Before Interning Talk with your Career Center to find out what internship resources are available on your campus. Write your Resume and Cover Letter. Decide what you would like to get out of your internship. Start Networking with everyone you know. Define where you would like to do your internship: City? Corporation? Industry? Start researching internship opportunities. Two Semesters Before Interning Send out your resume and cover letter. Practice your interviewing skills and schedule a mock interview with your Career Center. One Semester Before Interning Make sure your application is complete for each company where you like to intern. Double check for accuracy! Send thank you letters to employers who gave you the opportunity to interview. Decide on an internship that is best for you, and accept the internship offer Students &amp; Alumni Appointments ACAD Career Unit Explore Career and Majors Going on to Graduate School Resumes Example Resumes Resumes/CVs Resume Builder Cover Letter Checklist Interview Tips Professional Dress Women Men Internships What is an Internship? Academic Internship Search Jobs/Internships TigerLink Tiger Success Institute Introduction Apply Workshop Information Upcoming Events &amp; Opportunities Visit this page periodically to see what might be of interest to you. Presentation Request We develop presentations tailored for your class, organization or program. C.A.R.E.S Institute Get academic support and services to improve your academic success! Contact Us Here is how to reach our department Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .