#http://www.memphis.edu/rsp/sponsored_programs/prepare_budget.php
Grant Services - RSP - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Division of Research and Sponsored Programs Vice President Compliance Sponsored Programs Research Development Sponsored Programs Contract Services Grant Services Find Funding Intent to Submit Prepare Budget Prepare Proposal Submit Proposal Advance Account Award Acceptance Award Set-Up Monitoring Close Out Institutional Information Educational Resources Agency/Sponsor Links Research Resources Grants &amp; Contracts Accounting Home RSP Sponsored Programs Grant Services Prepare Budget The Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) personnel will assist faculty and staff with preparing the budget. Budget Development The draft budget must be developed using the internal budget template ( Forms ) and submitted to researchsupportservices@memphis.edu along with the intent to submit, program announcement or proposal guideline information, proposal submission deadline date, and if possible, the draft budget narrative. The draft budget should be submitted 10 working days prior to the submission deadline date to ensure the OSP administrator has sufficient time to review the budget for accuracy and compliance with University and Sponsor policies. If you have Subawardee(s), please note that budgets cannot be finalized until a Letter of Commitment and budget are received from the Subawardee(s). Budget Templates with the correct benefit rates can be found on our forms page . Indirect Cost Rates The University's Indirect Cost Rate Agreement is effective until June 30, 2019. The Cognizant Federal Agency for the agreement is the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS). The rates change starting July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2017 are: On Campus Off Campus Research 43.5% 26.0% Instruction 55.0% 26.0% Other Activities 35.0% 26.0% MTDC (modified total direct costs): Indirect cost rates, in most instances, is to be applied to all budget items except capital expenditures (equipment $5,000 or more per unit), tuition remission, the portion of each individual subcontract in excess of $25,000, charges for patient care, rental costs of off-site facilities, and scholarships and fellowships. Off-campus rate is applied in cases where rent for off-campus facilities are budgeted as a direct cost. Indirect cost rate for TN State Agencies and Local Governments: 15% of Total Direct Costs (TDC), unless otherwise specified in sponsor guidelines. When the sponsor caps the indirect cost rate and they do not specify how the rate is to be applied, UofM's standard practice is to charge the capped rate to total direct costs (rather than modified total direct costs, or MTDC). Back to Top Fringe Benefit Rates for University of Memphis Employees All Salaried Employees, monthly: 35.6% (includes academic year and summer/extra compensation). All Hourly Employees, bi-weekly: 63.3% (includes overtime). Temporary Employees (No insurance): 6.1%. Temporary Employees (Insurance): 13.0%. Students: 0.0% (must be enrolled half time) Graduate Student Tuition The internal budget defaults to Academic Year student tuition (in-state) based on full-time load of 12 hours per semester. For future years, budget a 9% escalation. See the Current Fee Schedule for Graduate Students to make any necessary adjustments to the tuition rate. Travel Rates For up to date travel rates for transportation, lodging, and per diems, see the Accounting Office Travel Rate Schedule . General Purpose Supplies and Administrative Personnel Cost The U.S. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-21 requires that certain expenses be treated as indirect costs and paid for through the indirect mechanism. To qualify as a direct charge on a sponsored project, costs normally considered indirect costs must be charged in a timely manner and must be consistent with established institutional policies and practices. To request authorization to direct charge expenditures that would normally be treated as indirect costs, please complete the Unlike Circumstance Request Form. This form is part of the budget template, located on the this website under Forms . The Unlike Circumstance Request form should be completed at the time of proposal submission, when it is known that general purpose office supplies and/or administrative personnel costs will be directly charged to a project. In some cases, when it is not known at the time of submission, the form may be submitted after the award, but prior to the purchase or charging of the cost directly to the project . The justification to direct charge administrative personnel costs that are normally treated as F&amp;A must include the following: description of how the duties performed by the administrative person are distinct from their normal duties, document how the duties will be allocated exclusively to the project to which they are being charged, describe the specific goals with the project that would not be accomplished with these administrative activities, and the administrative costs must be pre-approved by the sponsor, either in the original budget narrative or separately after the award has been made. The justification to direct charge a general purpose office supply (including computers) that is normally treated as F&amp;A must include the following: description of how the item being purchased is different from the normal use of similar items, document how the item will be allocated exclusively for the use of the project to which it is being charged, describe the specific goals within the project that would not be accomplished without these items, and the items must be pre-approved by the sponsor, either in the original budget narrative or separately after the award has been made. Back to Top Animal Care Per Diem Charges The University's Animal Care Charges outlined below became effective July 1, 2003. Species Memphis Rate Guinea Pig $0.85/day Rabbit $1.50/day Rat $0.35/day Vole $0.20/day Hamster $0.45/day Mice, Sterile (microisolated) $0.40/day Mice, Large Box (min 6) $15.00/month Mice, Small Box (1-5) $6.00/month Back to Top Sponsored Programs Contract Services Grant Services Find Funding Intent to Submit Prepare Budget Prepare Proposal Submit Proposal Advance Account Award Acceptance Award Set-Up Monitoring Close Out Institutional Information Educational Resources Agency/Sponsor Links Research Resources Grants &amp; Contracts Accounting Forms Forms and other useful information Staff Staff of Research and Sponsored Programs and Grants Accounting Resources Institutional information and resources for the researcher Research Portal Research Portal Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .