#http://www.memphis.edu/bursar/info/1098.php
1098-T Information - Bursar's Office - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Bursar's Office Staff Directory Fees Calendars Students Parents Campus Card Other Student Info eRefund Sign-up Financial Aid Disbursement Bookstore Advance Payment Plan Student Financial Appeals 1098-T Tax Information Ask TOM FAQs Home Bursar's Office Other Student Info 1098-T Information 1098-T Information 1098-T tax forms are scheduled to go out from the University of Memphis during January 2015 for use in filing 2014 taxes. In order to expedite the process and get the information to you as quickly as possible, we are asking for your consent to receive notification of your 1098-T tax form electronically. If you would like to receive notification electronically (instead of a paper copy), please give your consent by following the instructions in the link below, however, If you would like to receive a paper copy of your 1098T form, do nothing. If you do not receive your 1098-T form for 2014, or if your address has changed, you may log into the ECSI Services website as indicated below to print your 1098-T form after they have been mailed. Our office is unable to give any advice about filing taxes; please contact the IRS or your tax preparer for those questions. The benefits to you of receiving electronic notification are: Online delivery provides access to the form 1098-T earlier than the traditional mailing process. You may be able to file your tax return earlier! Online delivery eliminates the chance that the 1098-T will get lost, misdirected or delayed during delivery, or misplaced once the student receives it. Signing up for online delivery is easy and secure. Students can receive their 1098-T form even while traveling or on assignment away from their home address. Important Notice: Effective with the 2014 tax year, if your scholarship, grants and/or fee waivers equaled and/or exceeded what you were charged for tuition for the year 2014, the University of Memphis is no longer issuing 1098-T forms to individuals in this situation, as it not required by the Internal Revenue Service. The purpose of the 1098-T form is to identify those individuals who qualify for the education credit. Only those individuals that pay an out-of pocket tuition related expense will be able to use the 1098-T. STUDENTS To give consent to receive your notification electronically: sign up using the SECURE website below giving us your Name, Student ID (U Number) and e-mail address (you can also include your parents e-mail in the alternate email space) by January 10, 2015. The following are the login instructions to access your 1098-T form online. ( Please Note: You will have to call the ECSI 1098T free Hotline at (866) 428-1098 to receive your PIN number prior to accessing your 1098T account). 1098T forms for tax years 2006-12 are also available on the ECSI Web site. Log in to ECSI 1098-T Services . (link opens in a new page) Enter the Requested Information. The University of Memphis's school code is AH. If you are having problems remembering any of your information click here . Click Log In. If you have any questions, please visit for information regarding your tax documents and to obtain contact information for ECSI. Other Student Info eRefund Sign-up Financial Aid Disbursement Bookstore Advance Payment Plan Student Financial Appeals 1098-T Tax Information Ask TOM FAQs TigerXpress View your statements and pay fees online in TigerXpress. Tuition Estimator How much will your courses cost? Get an estimate online! Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the U of M Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .