#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/plan.php
City and Regional Planning - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning City and Regional Planning City and Regional Planning CHARLES SANTO, PhD Director and Associate Professor Room 208, McCord Hall 901.678.2161 casanto@memphis.edu I. The Department of City and Regional Planning in the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy offers the Master’s in City and Regional Planning (MCRP) degree. Planning uses a multidisciplinary approach to solve urban and regional problems. As such, planning is concerned with the spatial arrangement and interaction of human activity systems in urbanized areas and enables the arrangement of facilities and programs in an optimal and comprehensive way. As a professional practice, planning is concerned with guiding the growth and development of cities and regions toward desired objectives. Planning increases the effectiveness of public and private decision-making by giving careful consideration to goal formulation, the collection and organization of information and knowledge, and the design of policies and programs. The curriculum is intended to provide the basic knowledge and skills in theory, techniques, methods, and practice. The program is a full member of the Association of Collegiate Schools of Planning, and its degree is accredited by the Planning Accreditation Board. Program objectives are: (1) mastery of computing and written, oral , and graphical skills; (2) strong sense of professional ethical principles; (3) respect for and understanding of diverse viewpoints, needs, and ideologies, with particular attention to issues related to class, gender, race and ethnicity in urban society; (4) knowledge and skills for urban problem-solving including history and theory of planning processes and practices; administrative, legal, and political aspects of plan making and policy implementation; and synthesis and application of knowledge; (5) knowledge of the structure and function of urban settlements, and (6) knowledge and skills necessary for achieving status as a Certified Planner . All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MCRP Degree Program A. Program Admission Applicants must satisfy the University's Graduate School admission standards and receive favorable endorsement from the planning faculty. Admission will be based on applicable test scores (GRE or MAT); undergraduate grade point average; previous education and/or experience; and ability to articulate career and education objectives. In addition to completing the Graduate School application, applicants should also submit the following material directly to the Graduate Program in City &amp; Regional Planning: A personal statement (500 words) describing related background, career objectives and interest in studying planning at the University of Memphis. Current resume In order to receive full consideration for Graduate Assistantships, application must be received by April 15. B. Program Prerequisite Students are accepted from all undergraduate disciplines and professional areas; however, the department determines if students must do remedial work. Some credit may be granted by the department for remedial work if obtained at the graduate level after entering the program. C. Program Requirements The student is required to complete a minimum of 48 semester hours. Twenty-seven (27) hours are taken in the core curriculum and 18 hours are electives that lead to a 3-hour Capstone Project. The eighteen (18) hours of electives allow the student to extend basic knowledge gained in the core curriculum and can include such subjects as economic development planning, urban design, land use and transportation planning, planning information systems, housing, community development planning, planning law, social justice, sustainability, and environmental planning. The 3-hour Capstone Project, submitted as a written report and orally defended, is required of all majors as a terminal experience designed to demonstrate a student’s mastery of planning process and substance. The comprehensive examination must be successfully completed at the end of the semester in which the student expects to graduate. D. Transfer of Credits The Director may recommend to the Graduate School credit for planning course-work successfully completed at other institutions but not to exceed 12 semester hours. For those students formerly enrolled in graduate planning programs accredited by the Planning Accreditation Board, a maximum of 24 hours in planning course-work may be approved. Credit previously earned at another institution must be presented for evaluation not later than the end of the student’s second semester of enrollment. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .