#http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/resources/vocabulary.php
Vocabulary - Parent &amp; Family Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parent &amp; Family Services About Events Communication Resources Get Involved Give Back Visit UofM Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Home Parent &amp; Family Services Resources Vocabulary UofM Vocabulary Every institution has their own vocabulary and lingo that is unique to them. Below are some of the commonly used words and acronyms that your student might be using in their time on campus. Nickname Description ALEKS Test ALEKS is a powerful artificial intelligence based mechanism to assess math proficiency and skill level. New incoming students are required to take the test to be properly placed in their mathematics course. Carpenter Complex Apartment style residence hall north of Central Avenue Centennial Residence hall at Patterson Street and Norriswood Avenue with traditional single and double rooms along with 24 apartments. CRIS Campus Recreation and Intramural Services is located south of Southern Avenue. The office manages the Student Recreation and Fitness Center which offers workout equipment, a pool, volleyball, basketball and tennis courts for student, faculty, and staff use. Flex Bucks Flex Bucks are funds that students receive with their meal plan which supplement the plan. The funds can be used at any dining facility. Dining Dollar$ Each full time UofM undergraduate student is automatically enrolled in the Dining Dollar$ plan. Each semester (fall and spring), your student's account will be automatically charged $300 for him or her to use at on campus dining facilities and vending machines. FedEx Forum Basketball stadium, located in downtown Memphis, where the Men's basketball team plays their home games. The Forum is also home to the Memphis Grizzlies, a NBA team. Fieldhouse Athletic facility where the women's basketball and volleyball teams compete when at home. Fresh Connections Fresh Connections are learning communities that use clusters of courses to connect different disciplines to a common theme. The specially selected faculty incorporate their specific theme in assignments and activities throughout the semester. Frosh Camp A four day camp away from Memphis for incoming freshmen students. It is a supplement to orientation, allowing students to meet campus leaders and fellow classmates. Go Tigers Go! Chant from the University fight song at the University of Memphis that can be heard at athletic functions and around campus. "I'm So Glad I Go to U of M" University song that can be heard at athletic events Liberty Bowl Football stadium, located at Central Avenue and East Parkway, where the football team plays their home games. LLC Living Learning Complex. A residence hall located on Patterson Avenue that houses themed or major based communities of students. MATA Memphis Area Transit Authority provides bus services in and around Memphis myMemphis System that allows students to manage their personal information. Allows students to register for classes, view their financial aid package, view student account, view transcript, and request enrollment verification. TBR Tennessee Board of Regents. Governing board over the University of Memphis. Tiger Den Dining location in Jones Hall that offers options including an all you care to eat style buffet, Wendy's and Subway Tiger's Restaurant A full service restaurant located in the University Center. It includes a big screen television and pool tables for students to enjoy. Tiger Funds Money added to a student's account. The funds can be used like a debit card at locations across campus, including dining locations, some vending machines, and the bookstore. Funds can be added to a student's account through the Bursar's office in Wilder Tower or online. Tiger Escort Escort service that takes students to their car or residence hall at night. TigerText Alert system for students, faculty and staff in case of an emergency on campus. This optional service is used in the event of an on-campus emergency, an unscheduled University closing, or a delay or cancellation of classes due to, for instance, inclement weather. TOM University of Memphis live mascot, TOM the Tiger. TOM (Tigers of Memphis) lives in a sanctuary in south Memphis and his care is funded by the Alumni Association. TOM is a regular visitor at home football games. UC University Center. Building on campus that houses student services, including a 24/7 computer lab, campus post office and boxes, student organization offices, dining options, and copy services. Often called the heart of campus. UMdrive Online storage program that allows students to upload documents to their individual account so that they can access them from any computer with an internet connection. The Union Food court located in the University Center that offers a variety of food options, including a Chick-fil-a, Taco Bell, pizza, and Grab-and-Go station. Wilder Tower Tallest building on campus that houses student services offices, including the Registrar, Bursar, Admissions, Financial Aid, Recruitment and Orientation, Career Services, Counseling Center, Student Disabilities, and Commencement. Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Contact Us Got questions, comments, or concerns? We're here to help! Parent &amp; Family E-news Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News. Parent &amp; Family Handbook Learn about opportunities and services available to students. In the Now: September FAQs What you need to know this month to help you help your student Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .