#http://www.memphis.edu/sociology/people/faculty_and_staff/junmin-wang.php
Junmin Wang - Sociology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Sociology About Us People Research Undergraduate Graduate Resources People Faculty Emeritus &amp; Emerita Faculty Advisors &amp; Instructors Staff Graduate Students Home Sociology People Junmin Wang Junmin Wang Associate Professor Phone (901) 678-1606 Email junmin.wang@memphis.edu Fax (901) 678-2525 Office Clement Hall, Room 229B Office Hours Call for Hours Website CV Junmin Wang is Associate Professor of Sociology. She received her Ph.D. in Sociology in 2007 from New York University. During the academic year of 2007-2008, she was a post-doctoral fellow in China's political economy at the Research Center for Chinese Politics &amp; Business of Indiana University at Bloomington. Dr. Wang received her B.A. and M.A. in Sociology from Peking University, China. Dr. Wang's main research integrates the sociological subfields of economic sociology, sociology of organizations, and comparative/global sociology with an empirical focus on globalization and the interactions between global processes and China's organizational and institutional changes. Her research combines theories of globalization and international political economy with theories of organizations, social change and economic sociology. Dr. Wang's research contributes to three categories of literature: (1) China's recent integration into the international market and the macro-level transformations in state/market relationships; (2) the institutional and organizational innovations in the global corporate setting; (3) China's ongoing economic reforms at the organizational level and their implications for China's political prospects. She has employed both quantitative and qualitative methods in her research projects. Dr. Wang's book entitled State-Market Interactions in China's Reform Era: Local State Competition and Global Market Building in the Tobacco Industry is published by Routledge (2013). She has published peer-reviewed articles on China's political economy, state/market transitions, and institutional and organizational changes. These publications appear in Theory and Society, Comparative Sociology, Management and Organization Review, Research in the Sociology of Work, and European Journal of Sociology. Dr. Wang's research has been founded by the National Science Foundation (NSF) during the years of 2005-2006 and of 2012-2014 and the Faculty Research Grant in Social Sciences, Business and Law of University of Memphis during the year of 2009-2010. Currently, Dr. Wang is conducting a research project regarding China's interactions with global capital and the implications for China's indigenous technological innovation, funded by the NSF's Science of Organizations Program. The project contributes to the thriving interdisciplinary literature on the recent globalization of capital and technology across the globe and the institutions of corporate governance in emerging markets. In her future research, Dr. Wang will continue examining the organizational and institutional processes shaping developing nations' transition towards being more global and more innovative. Findings from this line of research offer policy insights into how developing countries can initiate organizational and institutional changes to take advantage of the potential benefits brought by global capital and international technology transfer over time. For advanced economies like the U.S., policy makers as well as corporate practitioners will benefit from the knowledge regarding industrial and technological transformations of emerging economies and their political-economic transitions in general during the ongoing globalization process, and thus develop better strategies of dealing with increasing competitiveness across the globe and building more effective partnerships with these emerging economies. During the academic year of 2012-2013, Dr. Wang received the Early Career Research Award from College of Arts and Sciences at University of Memphis. People Faculty Emeritus &amp; Emerita Faculty Advisors &amp; Instructors Staff Graduate Students Community Out of Chaos "portray the idea of chaos to community in Memphis." Online B.A. Want to pursue your college degree and manage your busy lifestyle? Experience online classes at the UofM. Contact Us Main Office Contacts and Location Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .