#http://www.memphis.edu/music/fac-staff/bios/owen-leinert-s.php
Susan Owen-Leinert - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Faculty and Staff Alphabetical Applied Music Brass Keyboard Percussion Strings Vocal Arts Woodwinds Class Piano Composition and Theory Conducting Jazz Music Education Music History Music Industry Home Music Faculty and Staff Susan Owen-Leinert Susan Owen-Leinert (M.M.) Voice Phone (901) 678-4082 Email sownlnrt@memphis.edu Fax (901) 678-3096 Office MU 205 Office Hours Contact Ms. Owen-Leinert for appointments. About Susan Owen-Leinert Susan Owen-Leinert joined the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music in 2005 after enjoying over 20 years of performing opera and concert internationally. She made her European debut with an invitation from Maestro Daniel Barenboim to the Staatsoper Unter den Linden in Berlin, where she sang Senta ( Der Fliegende Hollände r) and Helmwige ( Die Walküre ). Ms. Owen has sung major roles in guest engagements at the Deutsche Oper Berlin (Isolde, Tristan und Isolde; Christian Thielemann conducting), Semper Oper Dresden (Barak's Frau, Die Frau ohne Schatten ), Deutsche Oper am Rhein (Isolde and Senta) and Opéra de Nancy et de Lorraine, France (Isolde). Her interpretation of the title role of Elektra by Richard Strauss was hailed in the press as the "Singer-Discovery of the year 2000", a role she performed at Staatstheater Darmstadt, Aalto Theater Essen, Antikenfestspiele in Trier,Theater Münster and Staatsoper Hannover. At Staatstheater Darmstadt she was a full-time ensemble member from 1999 – 2002 where she performed the roles of Isolde, Barak's Frau, Emily Marty ( The Makropoulos Case ) and Ortrud ( Lohengrin ). Ms. Owen sang Brünnhilde ( Der Ring des Nibelungen ) with great critical acclaim at Staatstheater Kassel. Complete live recordings of Die Walküre, Siegfried and Götterdämmerung were successfully released on CD by Ars Production, Germany. As Brünnhilde she was a guest in numerous opera houses including Oper Bonn, l'Opéra Royal de Wallonie, Teatro Giuseppe Verdi in Trieste and Theatre Kiel, as well as concert performances in Taipei and Tokyo. As a full-time ensemble member of Staatstheater Kassel (1995-1999) Ms. Owen performed Senta, Marie ( Wozzeck ), Santuzza ( Cavalleria Rusticana ), Leonora ( La Forza del Destino ), Giorgetta ( Il Tabarro ) and the title role of Jenufa. Her career includes many engagements in the USA, for instance with the Palm Beach Opera she performed both Elisabeth and Venus in Wagner's Tannhäuser conducted by Anton Guadagno. With the Austin Lyric Opera she performed the roles of Aida, Tosca and Elisabeth ( Tannhäuser ) and with the Opera Orchestra of New York she sang Irene ( Rienzi ) conducted by Eve Queler. Other major Italian roles include Amelia ( Un Ballo in Maschera ), Maddalena (Andrea Chénier ), Leonora ( Il Trovatore ) and Lady Macbeth. Highlights of her performances on the concert stage include the Mahler 8th Symphony (Soprano 1) at the Beethoven Festival in Bonn and Cologne, La Terre for soprano, piano and orchestra by Zygmunt Krauze for Radio France in Paris, Schoenberg's Gurrelieder in both Darmstadt and Bratislava, Wagner's Wesendonck-Lieder as well as the Vier letzte Lieder by Richard Strauss. Receiving her Bachelor of Music Degree from East Carolina University and her Master of Music Degree from the University of Texas at Austin, Ms. Owen captured the attention of the opera world when she was a winner of the 1990 Metropolitan Opera National Council Auditions and in 1991 the Opera America Award. Associate Professor of Voice Susan Owen-Leinert founded the Memphis Opera &amp; Song Academy, a summer academy for opera singers on the verge of international careers. She is the General Manager of The Chamber Opera of Memphis which since 2007 has successfully produced contemporary opera productions such as The Medium by Peter Maxwell Davis which was invited to Germany for guest performances. In 2009 Susan Owen-Leinert was the recipient of the CCFA Dean's Creative Achievement Award. She has been a guest lecturer, recitalist and given master classes in the United States, Germany and Cyprus. As the President of the Louis Spohr Society of the United States, Ms. Owen-Leinert is the editor of the first critical edition of the complete Lieder by Louis Spohr in 12 volumes with the German Publisher Dohr in Cologne. Faculty and Staff Alphabetical Applied Music Brass Keyboard Percussion Strings Vocal Arts Woodwinds Class Piano Composition and Theory Conducting Jazz Music Education Music History Music Industry Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .