#http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/register/
Register - Registrar - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty &amp; Staff Forms Register Register for Classes Quick Guide Errors/Problems Holds Permits Credit by Exam Auditing Complete Self Service Guides Student Right-to-Know Information Home Registrar Register Register for Classes Registration is more than adding or dropping classes: it's a process that takes preparation as well as follow-through in order to make sure that you get best schedule possible with the least amount of trouble. With that in mind, review the process as outlined below. Before Registration Opens Dates Check the appropriate semester "Dates &amp; Deadlines" calendar to determine registration and term dates, and your first day to register. Courses See what's being offered and begin forming an idea of what you might take. Class offerings are available online, usually one month before registration opens. UofM students should login to the myMemphis portal and search the semester's class offerings using the Look Up Classes feature. If you are not an admitted student, use the Class Schedule Search (Dynamic Schedule) . Financial Aid Go to your Account$ tab in the myMemphis portal to review and accept your financial aid awards. Registration Status Check your Registration Status screen in the portal (Student tab). Look in particular at: Holds - You cannot register if you have any Registration holds. Contact the office that placed the hold to determine how you can remove it. Read about Holds . Student Status messages - You must be a current student with an Active status for the term. If you see these messages--"you have no registration time ticket," "you require readmission," "your status prevents registration,"--you must apply for admission or readmission before registering. (NOTE: When you skip a Fall or Spring term, your status changes to "Inactive" and you must be readmitted.) Advising If you are a degree-seeking student, you must be cleared to register by your advisor or advising unit. Otherwise, you will be blocked from registering by the "Alternate PIN" screen. Once cleared, you will not encounter this screen. Visit Academic Advising for advising information. Once Registration Opens Login and Register Register online through the myMemphis portal as early as possible for the best course selection; once you are in the portal, look for the Registration Tools channel on your Student tab. Also: Refer to the Registration Quick Guide for an overview of online registration. If you encounter problems trying to register, refer to our Errors and Problems page. If you need a permit to register for a particular section, refer to our Permits page. Print your personal class schedule after you have registered for classes. Check it for accuracy. Look especially at time, days, room, and campus location. Pay Pay your fees online (select your Account$ tab in the portal), or pay in person at the Bursar's Office, 115 Wilder Tower. Refer to the Bursar's website for fee payment deadlines and other fee-related information, including fee payment methods, and possible refunds. Before You Go To Class Reprint and review your schedule just prior to the first day of classes: buildings and room numbers often need to be revised before classes start. Register Register for Classes Quick Guide Errors/Problems Holds Permits Credit by Exam Auditing Complete Self Service Guides Student Right-to-Know Information Calendars Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams. Notice! Check for alerts and reminders. Contact Us Have questions? Need assistance or information? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .