#http://www.memphis.edu/imc/microscopy/upright-wide-field.php
Upright wide-field and Confocal Fluorescence Microscope - IMC - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Integrated Microscopy Center Light/Electron Microscopy Materials Science Services Fees Staff Microscopy Resources Light Microscopy About Light Microscopy Equipment Bright-field and Dissecting Microscopes Upright Wide-field and Confocal Fluorescence Microscope Laser Scanning Confocal Fluorescence Inverted Microscope Electron Microscopy Transmission Electron Microscope Nova NanoSEM 650 Field Emission Microscope Environmental Scanning Electron Microscope Ultramicrotome Sputter Coater Critical Point Dryer Microscopy Lab and Equipment Contact Home IMC Microscopy Upright wide-field and Confocal Fluorescence Microscope Upright Bright-Field &amp; Wide-Field Fluorescence Microscope Nikon Eclipse 800 Description and Applications Acquired early 2000, the Nikon D-Eclipse C1 was the first confocal scanning fluorescence microscope at the University of Memphis. While the confocal fluorescent microscopy needs of most users are best served with the recently acquired Nikon A1 confocal microscope, the Eclipse C1 comes in handy for users whose samples can only be imaged with an upright microscope (click here to learn more about upright versus inverted microscopes). The Eclipse C1 uses He-Ne lasers to illuminate the specimen. Images of the fluorescent specimen (FITC, TRITC, and Cy5) are acquired with a set of PMTs and assembled with the E-Z C1 software. The Nikon Eclipse 800 is very useful to quickly examine and take pictures of fluorescent preparations by wide-field fluorescence (DAPI, FITC, and TRITC). In 2013, the original mercury lamp fluorescence illumination system was replaced by a Lumen 200 advanced fluorescence illumination system. The Lumen 200 uses a metal-halide bulb with a very long life span and features an optimized light path to maximize the illumination of the specimen. Several objectives can be mounted on the turret of the Eclipse 800: 1x (Plan UW, NA 0.04, WD 3.2) 2x (Plan UW, NA 0.06, WD 7.5) 10x (Plan Fluor, NA 0.30, WD 16.0) 20x (Plan apo, NA O.75, WD 1mm) 40x (Plan apo, oil, NA 1.0, WD 0.16 mm) 60x (Plan apo, oil, NA 1.4m, WD 0.21 mm) 60x (Plan apo, water, NA 1.2) The Eclipse 800 is also excellent for bright-field microscopic observations of preparations stained by H&amp;E (or other histological stain) and by immunohistochemistry. Finally, epi-illumination can be performed with the Eclipse 800 for microscopic investigations of opaque objects. Click here to learn more about epi-illumination. Digital micrographs of specimens observed by bright field microscopy, epi-illumination or wide-field fluorescence can be taken with a Nikon Digital Camera DXM1200F and its associated ACT-1 software. Microscopy Resources Light Microscopy About Light Microscopy Equipment Bright-field and Dissecting Microscopes Upright Wide-field and Confocal Fluorescence Microscope Laser Scanning Confocal Fluorescence Inverted Microscope Electron Microscopy Transmission Electron Microscope Nova NanoSEM 650 Field Emission Microscope Environmental Scanning Electron Microscope Ultramicrotome Sputter Coater Critical Point Dryer Microscopy Lab and Equipment Contact Contact Us Main office contacts and locations Make a Reservation To reserve a session for IMC equipment, please login to our calendar using the user ID and password provided by the IMC staff. Division of Research and Sponsored Programs The RSP assists faculty and staff with the development of proposals to obtain research funding through externally sponsored programs. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .