#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/getinvolved/constituent/halfcentury.php
Half Century Club - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About Get Involved Academic Chapters Arts &amp; Sciences School of Law CEHHS Communication Sciences &amp; Disorders FCBE Engineering International MBA Journalism Kemmons Wilson School School of Nursing Masters of Public Administration Music Professional MBA University College Constituent Groups Band Frosh Camp Half Century Hispanic Alumni Lambuth Luther C. McClellan Memphis Pom UMAR Young Alumni Out of Town Atlanta Chicago Dallas Denver Houston Indianapolis Minneapolis Nashville New England New Orleans New York Orlando/Tampa San Francisco St. Louis Washington, DC Student Groups Future Alumni of Memphis Student Ambassador Board Scholarships Pouncer's Pals Home UMAA Get Involved Half Century Club Half Century Club Recent Events Golden Homecoming Dinner honoring the Class of '64 The Half Century Club honored the Class of '64 and alumni of 50 years or more at the Golden Homecoming Reunion on October 29. A tour of campus included the Heritage Room, University Center and more. Dinner featured a wine reception and the Half Century Induction Ceremony honoring the Class of '64. View Photos Golden Homecoming Dinner The Alumni Association and Half Century Club invited all graduates of 50 years or more to a Golden Homecoming Dinner honoring the Class of '63 with special guest Provost David Rudd. The attendees enjoyed a bus tour of campus, as well as a wine reception and dinner, compliments of the Alumni Association. Lambuth Garden Party, Class of 1962 Half Century Club Induction &amp; Brick Laying All alumni and friends of the University of Memphis Lambuth Campus were invited to a Garden Party on the Lambuth Campus in late September. Members of the Lambuth Class of 1962 were honored with a medallion and inducted into the UofM Alumni Association's Half Century Club. View Photos Class of 1962 Reunion The Class of 1962 met for a 50th Anniversary Reunion during the Centennial Homecoming weekend in October. The day began with a meet and greet at the Alumni Center followed by a brunch and Half Century Club induction ceremony at the home of University President Shirley Raines. Guests then took a tour of campus and returned for the Golden Reception that evening. View Photos Golden Reception The Half Century Club invited all graduates of the Class of 1962 and all previous years to a Golden Homecoming Reception during the Centennial Homecoming weekend in October. View Photos Get Involved! For more information, contact alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.2586. Club Advisors President: J.B. "Pappy" Latimer , (BS '52) Helen Bartlett Dawson (BS '52, MEd '76) Anne Freeman (BA '55, MA '61) Anne Williams Goode Mary Frances Nelson (BS '52, MA '73) Get Involved Academic Chapters Arts &amp; Sciences School of Law CEHHS Communication Sciences &amp; Disorders FCBE Engineering International MBA Journalism Kemmons Wilson School School of Nursing Masters of Public Administration Music Professional MBA University College Constituent Groups Band Frosh Camp Half Century Hispanic Alumni Lambuth Luther C. McClellan Memphis Pom UMAR Young Alumni Out of Town Atlanta Chicago Dallas Denver Houston Indianapolis Minneapolis Nashville New England New Orleans New York Orlando/Tampa San Francisco St. Louis Washington, DC Student Groups Future Alumni of Memphis Student Ambassador Board Scholarships Pouncer's Pals Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .