#http://www.memphis.edu/msci/ugrad/faq.php
Frequently Asked Questions - Math Sciences - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Mathematical Sciences About People Undergraduate Graduate Research News Undergraduate Admissions Honors Program Accelerated BS/MS (ABM) Advising Scholarships Courses &amp; Syllabi Cantor Sect Home Math Sciences Undergraduate Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Registration and Credit Transfer How do I get a permit to enroll in a MATH Class? Answer: If the section begins with the letter R, then RODP has jurisdiction. See instructions for enrolling. Otherwise you discuss this with your advisor. If your advisor agrees that you have satisfied the prerequisites, then your advisor will send an email to David Dwiggins , with the following information: your name and Banner Id, U00-----, how and when you satisfied the pre-requisites, and why you need a permit. Only with this information can we make a decision regarding a permit. What does Prerequisite and Test Score Error Mean? Answer: You have not satisfied the prerequisite requirements to be able to enroll in this course. The Test Score error, refers to the ALEKS placement assessment. Note that for the ALEKS test score to count, the ALEKS test must have been taken within 6 months of the start date of the class you are enrolling in. ALEKS placement said that I can enroll in MATH 1420/MATH 1710, but the system won’t let me. Answer: If you scored between 14 and 29 (for MATH 1420) or between 30 and 45 (for MATH 1710) on ALEKS, then you must enroll in a 5-hour-per week section of MATH 1420 or MATH 1710. These "combo" sections are identified by having an E01-E09 section number. If you scored at least a 30 (for MATH 1420) or 46 (for MATH 1710) on ALEKS, you will not be allowed to enroll in a combo section, instead you should enroll in a regular section. Note that for the ALEKS test score to count, the ALEKS test must have been taken within 6 months of the start date of the class you are enrolling in. If none of the above applies, then contact your advisor. If your advisor agrees that you have satisfied the prerequisites, then your advisor will send an email to a MATH advisor, with the following information: your name and Banner Id, U00-----, how and when you satisfied the pre-requisites, and why you need a permit. Only with this information can we make a decision regarding a permit. Where can I find the prerequisites for a course I want to take? Answer: The course descriptions, along with prerequisites are found in the Undergraduate Catalog. Will you issue a permit for me to register into a closed class? Answer: Probably not. Some classrooms will not safely allow any additional students. Moreover, no permit will be issued without the professor’s permission. If there are extenuating circumstances, after you have obtained written permission from the professor, your advisor should contact a Math advisor with your Banner Id, verifying that you had satisfied the prerequisites, along with the compelling reasons for the permit to be issued. How can I find out if one of my courses will transfer directly as a MATH course at the UofM? Answer: The Transfer Equivalency Table , found on the Admissions site, lists accepted courses. Advising See the Advising Page. Tutoring A free walk-in tutoring service is provided by ESP in Dull Hall 143. Free online tutoring is also available. Here is a List of YouTube Videos . Degree Planning Online UMdegree Worksheet is on MyMemphis to help you plan out your semesters. Degree sheets are helpful in planning graduation requirements from the College of Arts and Sciences. Math Major 2015/2016 Course Guide lists the required MATH courses for the various MATH Major Concentrations: Statistics and MATH: Applied Math, General Math, Graduate Study, Teacher, and Actuarial Science. Undergraduate Admissions Honors Program Accelerated BS/MS (ABM) Advising Scholarships Courses &amp; Syllabi Cantor Sect Contact Us How to contact us, and whom to contact about what. Student FAQ Student resources for advising, tutoring, and registering for classes. ALEKS Information on the ALEKS computerized placement test. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .