#http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/resources/voc_college.php
College Vocabulary - Parent &amp; Family Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parent &amp; Family Services About Events Communication Resources Get Involved Give Back Visit UofM Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Home Parent &amp; Family Services Resources College Vocabulary College Vocabulary Colleges and Universities have a language of their own. Below are a list of words and definitions that will help you understand your student. Office Definitions Bursar’s Office Office that handles the assessment and collection of student fees. Payments to student’s accounts are made to this office and refunds are processed by this office as well. Contact this office if your student has a question about their account balance or refund. Financial Aid Office This office administers federal, state, and institutional aid programs to qualified students. Contact this office if your student has a question about their financial aid package, documents needed to process aid, or status of financial aid. IT or ITD This office is responsible for the implementing, monitoring, and maintaining information technology such as the campus data network, telephone system, computer systems, computer labs, and servers at the University of Memphis. Students should contact this office if they are having an issue with their email or logging into the University site or computer. Registrar’s Office The Registrar oversees registration at the University, providing aids such as calendars, class schedules, final exam schedules, and guides to online registration and enrollment management. It also manages student academic records, produces official transcripts. Scholarship Office This office awards and manages scholarships for current students. Many incoming freshman are awarded scholarships, but there are also scholarships available to current students. College Vocabulary Accreditation Certification that a school or institution has met standards set by an outside review organization Articulation Agreement An agreement between two or more institutions to transfer courses. The agreement identifies specific courses that may be taken at participating institutions in lieu of courses at the University of Memphis. Commencement Graduation ceremony that honors graduating students in all schools and colleges Elective A course that is not required for a major or minor. For example, if your student is majoring in history, they may take an art class as an elective. FAFSA Stands for Free Application for Federal Student Aid. The FAFSA must be filled out to be awarded grants, loans, scholarships, and work-study jobs. Final Exam Period Period of time when final examinations are administered to students. Graduate Student Student who has completed a bachelor’s degree and is working on completing a master’s or doctoral degree Greek A member of a fraternity or sorority. Holds A hold may be placed on a student's academic record for various reasons, such as non-payment of tuition and fees, not returning library books or library fines, not satisfying immunization records, parking fines or academic reasons. Most holds prevent students from registering or release of a student's academic records. Students should check their myMemphis account to contact the correct office to have the hold removed. Incomplete A temporary grade given to a student who has to leave a class with the intention of completing it within the next semester. An “I” will appear on the student’s transcript until all requirements have been fulfilled. Internship A part-time or full-time, temporary job in a real-world setting closely related to a student’s area of study. It may be done for college credit and it may or may not be paid. Loan Borrowed money to be repaid after graduation Major The area that a student chooses to specialize in in their studies Minor Academic area that a student chooses to specialize in that requires fewer courses than a major Prerequisite A course that must be completed before a student can enroll in a more advanced course. Provost Chief University officer who oversees all academic areas of the university Resident Assistant Also, referred to as a RA. Typically an upper level student who manages and oversees a group of rooms and the students living in them in a residence hall Student Affairs Division of the University that handles most non-academic activities including student leadership and involvement, adult and commuter student services, campus recreation center, counseling, testing, student health services, student activities, residence halls, dining services, sororities and fraternities, career services, and multicultural affairs. Study Day The day prior to final examinations during most regular semesters. Study Week The four day period preceding final examinations. Syllabus An outline from the professor of course requirement, academic policies, and a tentative schedule of assignments Undergraduate A student who is working towards a bachelor’s degree Work-Study Job Job that is awarded as part of a student’s financial aid package. These jobs are financed through the federal government. Consideration for federal work-study is given to students who demonstrate financial need. Students should look at their financial aid award in myMemphis to determine if they have been awarded. Those not receiving this award can also find employment on campus as a regular student worker. Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Contact Us Got questions, comments, or concerns? We're here to help! Parent &amp; Family E-news Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News. Parent &amp; Family Handbook Learn about opportunities and services available to students. In the Now: September FAQs What you need to know this month to help you help your student Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .