#http://act.memphis.edu
Mid South Access Center for Technology ACT :: Mid-South Access Center for Technology (ACT) :: University of Memphis Skip to Navigation. | Skip to Main Content. | Skip to Search Form. Mid-South ACT Home About ACT VATR Lab Services Information News &amp; Newsletters Contact Us Donations A - Z U of M Quick Links ------------------ Outlook Bursar's Office Events Calendar Jobs eCourseware (UM) eLearn (RODP) Bookstore Ask TOM Employee Self Service Campus Map Library FedEx Institute Transcripts UMdrive iAM Police Services Contact Us Meet Mr. Joseph Dean. Mr. Dean is able to access his computer hands free using SmartNav and Dragon Naturally Speaking. He is a Vocational Rehabilitation client that uses Assistive Technology (AT) to create PowerPoint presentations, Excel spreadsheets, and Word documents. . . . Click here to follow Mr. Dean’s Journey to Success 3-N-1 Blind Awareness Togetherness (BATS), BRAINIACTS, Rolling with the Punches (wheelchair-users) Joint Support Group Meeting Date: December 4, 2015 Time: 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. Location: 119 Patterson Hall Registration: Call 901-678-1489 or email us at act@memphis.edu Braille-User Support Group Meeting Date: December 4, 2015 Time: 11:00 a.m - 1:00 p.m. Have you ever wondered how a person who has low vision uses Braille in their everyday lives? Have you wished to use Braille and needed to know how to get started? Come learn about Braille from Braille users and find out about community resources to learn Braille. A Braille user will be on site to demonstrate how they use Braille and provide tips for learning Braille. Mid-South ACT Announces Accessing GED® Test Preparation Program for Vocational Rehabilitation (VR) Clients with Physical and/or Visual Disabilities that will Aid in Accessing GED® Test Preparation Materials! ...click for flyer Mid-South ACT Announces Accessing GRE® Test Preparation Program for Vocational Rehabilitation (VR) Clients with Physical and/or Visual Disabilities that will Aid in Accessing GRE® Test Preparation Materials! ...click for flyer To enroll please contact Mid-South ACT staff, 901.678.1489 or email us at act@memphis.edu Enhancing Abilities eNewsletter May, 2013 March, 2013 February, 2013 October, 2012 Newsletter December, 2012 December, 2011 June, 2011 January, 2011 Mid-South Access Center for Technology (ACT) The Mid-South Access Center for Technology (Mid-South ACT) is an assistive technology resource center providing services for individuals with disabilities in Memphis and the Mid-South region. Mid-South ACT is a affiliated with the Center for Rehabilitation and Employment Research (CRER). Mid-South ACT operates the Virtual Assistive Technology Resource Lab (VATR Lab). Mid-South ACT is a member of the Alliance for Technology Access and a partner with Advanced Multimedia Devices - a Partnership for Excellence Program. The Mid-South Access Center for Technology is funded in part by: The University of Memphis Tennessee Technology Access Program (TTAP) Tennessee Department of Human Services - Rehabilitation Services Last Updated: 10/25/15