#http://www.memphis.edu/planning/programs/
Programs - Planning - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. City and Regional Planning About Programs People Research/Outreach Design Collaborative Program Resources Master's Degree Capstone Project Focused Electives Sequence of Courses PIT Lab About PIT PIT Overview PPT PIT Software/Hardware Study Abroad UofM Graduate Catalog Home Planning Programs Master of City &amp; Regional Planning The Master of City and Regional Planning (MCRP) degree is awarded after the successful completion of 48 semester hours. The MCRP degree establishes credentials for certified planning practice and is fully accredited by the Planning Accreditation Board (PAB). Degree Requirements The 48-hour program of study is divided into three parts as follows: Core Curriculum (27 hours): These courses are required of all students in the program and provide knowledge and skills essential to the discipline. With previous training or experience, credit by examination can be given for a portion of the required courses. Focused Electives (18 hours): A bundle of electives provide the student with a sequence of special interest courses chosen from throughout the University. The 18 hours of electives allow the student to extend basic knowledge gained in the core curriculum and can include such subjects as economic development planning, urban design, land use and transportation planning, planning information systems, housing and community development planning, planning law, environmental planning, etc. Electives are chosen in consultation with a faculty advisor. Capstone Project (3 hours): The capstone is the student's final requirement for the MCRP degree. The project requires the student to synthesize and apply knowledge about city and regional planning and concludes with a document written in the style of a professional planning report or thesis. After preparing the Capstone Project report, an oral defense of the project and a comprehensive examination must be successfully completed. Sequence of Courses The sequence of courses is designed so that a student may be admitted to the program during either the fall or spring semester. A full-time student enrolls in 12 hours of course work during each semester. A majority of the core courses are offered during the first year to provide a basis for second year electives. During the second year two core courses -- Comprehensive Planning Studio (7006) and Special Projects Studio (7007) -- are set up as workshops for the application of basic principles learned during the first year. The typical sequence of courses for a full-time student who starts the program in the fall semester is outlined below: Fall - 1st Year Planning the American City (7000) (formerly Introduction to Planning) Analysis for Community Planning (7012) (formerly Methods and Techniques in Planning) Site Planning (7008) Land Use Planning (7202) Planning Innovations Technology Lab* Spring - 1st Year Land Use Controls (7004) Planning and the Metro Economy (7011) (formerly Financing Community Development) Planning Theory and Perspectives (7002) Elective Fall - 2nd Year Comprehensive Planning Studio (7006) Elective Elective Elective Spring - 2nd Year Project Planning Studio (7007) Elective Elective Capstone Project *Planning Innovations Technology Lab Participation in the Planning Innovations Technology (PIT) lab is a common requirement for all first-year fall core courses. PIT lab sessions are designed to incorporate the development of technology-based skills sets into the curriculum. These 3-hour sessions are held on Friday afternoons. Full-time students participate in common weekly PIT lab sessions during the fall of the first-year. Part time students are required to participate in selected PIT lab sessions. Electives The Planning Program at The University of Memphis offers a wide range of elective courses: Urbanization and Environment (6201) Community Economic Development Community Organizing Urban Food Systems Planning Sustainable Cities &amp; Regions (6261) Water Resources (6231) Transportation Planning (6443) Geographic Information Science (6515) Regional Planning (7101) Community Facilities Planning (7201) Urban Revitalization Planning (7204) Seminar in Urban Design (7205) Housing (7206) Economics of Cities (7208) Geographic Environmental Analysis (7302) Seminar in Geographic Information Systems (7504) Research Problems Seminar (7710) Planning Practice (7708) In addition to planning electives, other departments have courses regularly recommended for planning students. Some of these include Anthropology, Civil Engineering, Criminal Justice, Economics, Geography, Health Administration, Political Science, Public Administration, Real Estate, and Sociology. Program Resources Master's Degree Capstone Project Focused Electives Sequence of Courses PIT Lab About PIT PIT Overview PPT PIT Software/Hardware Study Abroad UofM Graduate Catalog How to Apply Applying for admission to the program is easy Financial Aid Learn about Graduate Assistantships, Fellowships and Tuition Savings Program for Students Contact Us! Main office contact and location information. SUAPP City &amp; Regional Planning is a part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/12/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .