#http://blogs.memphis.edu/blog/author/admin/
Steven Terry | blogs.memphis.edu blogs.memphis.edu The University of Memphis Enterprise Blog Service Menu Skip to content Home About Blogs at UofM Getting Started Site Search Support Author Archives: Steven Terry Welcome to Blogs.Memphis.Edu Blogs.memphis.edu is the University&#8217;s installation of WordPress, a blogging service that allows Memphis faculty, staff, and students to collaborate around a common subject, such as an academic course, program, department, or community service. These blogs provide a place for users to share experiences, reflect on activities, and publish student creative works through written posts, pictures, videos, links, and comments.  As with other technology resources available at the University of Memphis, the Blogs.memphis.edu service is subject to the Acceptable Use of Information Technology Resources policy. ( See the link to the policy ) Please note : By creating a blog, you agree that you are solely responsible for the content you create. Neither the content of your blog, nor the links to other web sites, are approved or endorsed by the University of Memphis. The text and other material on your blogs are the opinion of the specific author and are not official statements of advice, opinion, or information of the University of Memphis. To get started using your blog, click on the Log In button at the top of this page and Log In using your Memphis UUID. After you Log In you will be at your Dashboard page.  Select your blog (tiger_tom@memphis.edu, for example) and start editing your blog! Also, here is a link that lists, The 5 Reasons Students Should Blog This entry was posted in Welcome and tagged Instructions on June 14, 2013 by Steven Terry . News/Announcements Watch this space for any news you may be interested in about blogging in general, or specifically here at UofM. Happy blogging! Helpful Links About Blogs at UofM Getting Started Site Search Support Proudly powered by WordPress Skip to toolbar University of Memphis University Home Memphis Blogs Blogging Help Log In Search