#http://www.memphis.edu/rsp/compliance/export_control.php
Research Compliance - RSP - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Division of Research and Sponsored Programs Vice President Compliance Sponsored Programs Research Development Research Compliance Human Subjects and IRB Overview Education Requirements Meetings/Members Exemption Decision Guide Adverse Events FAQ Glossary IRB Forms IRB Policy Responsible Conduct Conflict of Interest Export Control Home RSP Research Compliance Research Compliance Export Control International Travel Briefing When traveling abroad, taking certain items, providing certain services or meeting with certain people can present export control problems for University of Memphis (UM) faculty, staff, students and postdoctoral scholars ("UM affiliates"). This document provides us with guidance on how to avoid running afoul of the export control laws when travelling internationally. Travel to most countries does not present an export control problem. However, travel to some countries may present a problem. These problems may be easily managed, provided we create and maintain records that show we found the travel to be exempt from existing regulations. In some cases an export control license is required for travel. It is crucial that we obtain the necessary license prior to the trip. Violations of export control laws carry severe civil and criminal penalties. Applicable Regulations When traveling internationally, UM affiliates need to be familiar with export control regulations and policies. Specifically, UM affiliates need to determine whether the following regulations apply to them: US Department of Commerce's Export Administration Regulations (EAR) These regulations govern hardware, materials, equipment, software, technology and technical data that have both civilian and inherent military or defense application. Controlled items are identified on the Commerce Control List (CCL). EAR controls are specific and based on the combination of 1) destination; 2) end use; and 3) item specifications and capabilities. US Department of State's International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) These regulations govern 1) defense articles, including hardware, materials, equipment, software, technology and technical data specifically designed or modified for defense or military application without civil performance or use equivalent; and 2) defense activities, including disclosing ITAR technical data (or data related to a defense article) to foreign nationals, or disclosing technical data (even if not controlled or in the public domain) to a foreign national or related organization affiliated with a military purpose. US Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Controls (OFAC) These regulations restrict transactions with a specified list of embargoed countries and with certain "specifically designated nationals." For the purposes of UM affiliates, restrictions that are most likely to affect UM exports include travel to Cuba, Iran, Syria and Sudan. Evaluating Whether the Regulations Apply to You In evaluating whether any of the regulations apply to your travel, you need to consider: Whether you plan to take any controlled items or data with you; the most common items that present export control issues are laptops, jump drives, hand-held GPS devices, blueprints or schematics, encryption products and prototypes or samples that happen to be portable; Whether you plan to send or deliver any controlled items or data to non-US persons; Whether your laptop or other storage device you are taking out of the country has controlled data or information stored on it; Whether the country to which you are traveling has any OFAC restrictions; Whether you will be doing business (including engaging in money transactions or the exchange of goods or services) with certain people or entities that are considered "specially designated nationals." Whether you will be supplying certain technologies or data at a "closed" conference or meeting (not open to all technically qualified members of the public, and attendees are not permitted to take notes) Necessary Actions If you believe any of the regulations might apply to you, you should take the following steps, in consultation and collaboration with the research compliance staff in the Office of the Vice President for Research (VPR): Determine whether any license exemptions may apply to your activity. For example, an exemption for "tools of trade" used in research may be available depending on the circumstances. (This exemption requires the items or data remain in your personal control at all times, which may not be feasible.); -- Lawful involvement of foreign nationals in controlled activities while at UM may not automatically extend to laboratory or field research sites outside of the US; hence, foreign national involvement in research being conducted outside the US may require prior agency authorization.; Determine whether an export license or authorization from the appropriate government agency is required prior to the intended travel; Obtain an export license, when necessary.; -- The research compliance staff in the Office of the VPR submit all requests for licenses on behalf of UM; -- Be sure to contact the research compliance staff well in advance of your planned travel dates, as obtaining a license may take 30 days or longer. Helpful Tips-When Traveling Internationally Use your best judgment in communicating with foreign nationals, and be alert to situations that may result in inadvertent inappropriate or illegal disclosure of controlled information or data; Avoid situations that lead to providing advice or assistance outside of fundamental research parameters; Do not discuss controlled or sensitive information (for example, proprietary information that you may happen to have) in public places; Always keep controlled or sensitive items, information or data secure; Maintain a "need-to-know" policy when discussing work -related information with others; Do not leave equipment, documents or data in your hotel safe; Ensure that UofM has a way of getting in touch with you if necessary. Research Compliance Human Subjects and IRB Overview Education Requirements Meetings/Members Exemption Decision Guide Adverse Events FAQ Glossary IRB Forms IRB Policy Responsible Conduct Conflict of Interest Export Control Forms Forms and other useful information Staff Staff of Research and Sponsored Programs and Grants Accounting Resources Institutional information and resources for the researcher Research Portal Research Portal Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .