#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/getinvolved/constituent/lcm.php
Luther C. McClellan Chapter - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About Get Involved Academic Chapters Arts &amp; Sciences School of Law CEHHS Communication Sciences &amp; Disorders FCBE Engineering International MBA Journalism Kemmons Wilson School School of Nursing Masters of Public Administration Music Professional MBA University College Constituent Groups Band Frosh Camp Half Century Hispanic Alumni Lambuth Luther C. McClellan Memphis Pom UMAR Young Alumni Out of Town Atlanta Chicago Dallas Denver Houston Indianapolis Minneapolis Nashville New England New Orleans New York Orlando/Tampa San Francisco St. Louis Washington, DC Student Groups Future Alumni of Memphis Student Ambassador Board Scholarships Pouncer's Pals Home UMAA Get Involved Luther C. McClellan Chapter Luther C. McClellan Alumni Chapter LCM Alumni Chapter Scholarship The deadline for the 2015-2016 LCM Alumni Chapter Scholarship has passed. The University of Memphis Alumni Association Luther C. McClellan Chapter awards up to three annual scholarships to deserving minority students who have shown outstanding academic achievement, leadership qualities, and community involvement. Each student who receives a scholarship receives an award in the amount of $500 for the school year. Congratulations to the 2014 recipients, Christy Guy and Sitoria Townswend. The recipients were recognized at the Black History Month Closing Ceremonies in February. Thanks to everyone who applied! View Photos Recent Events LCM Homecoming Reunion 2014 LCM Alumni kicked off Homecoming Reunion by participating in the Race for a Cure and attending the Homecoming Parade &amp; Pep Rally. The LCM Alumni Chapter met on campus for "R.I.P The Runway Entrepreneur Spectacular," a fashion show and mixer. The LCM Chapter met for a watch party for the Carolina Panthers vs. New Orleans Saints game to cheer on former Tiger running back, Deangelo Williams. LCM Alumni concluded their Homecoming Reunion by cheering the Tigers on to victory against the Tulsa Golden Hurricane at the Homecoming Game. LCM Graduate Mixer Recent graduates joined the Luther C. McClellan Black Alumni Chapter for a Graduate Mixer and Wine &amp; Cheese Reception in May at the Alumni Center. Guests learned more about the LCM Chapter, our annual activities, and how they can stay involved with the University after graduation. View Photos Special Kids and Families 18th Annual Bunny Run 5k Fellow alumni joined together at the Annual Bunny Run 5K on Saturday, April 19 to support the Special Kids and Families organization for all they do in our Memphis community, as well as LCM members, Marcus &amp; Ashley Washington, and their daughter, McKenzie. Click here to read their story. Salsa Night with HAC and the Luther C. McClellan Black Alumni Chapter The HAC and LCM Alumni Chapters enjoyed a great night of salsa dancing at the Rumba Room on Saturday, April 12! An instructor taught the group different steps in Salsa, Merengue, and Bachata. View Photos Town Hall Meeting for Young Professionals The LCM Alumni Chapter and other young professionals throughout the city met with Mayor A.C. Wharton on Thursday, April 3 at the Memphis Bioworks Foundation "to discuss quality of life concerns and ways to get involved in moving our city forward." LCM Scholarship Presentation Recipients of the LCM Alumni Chapter Scholarship were presented at the University of Memphis Black History Month Closing Ceremonies in February. Congratulations to recipients Christy Guy and Sitoria Townswend. View Photos LCM Homecoming Reunion Thursday, November 7 through Saturday, November 9 LCM Alumni reunited with fellow alumni and students to mix and mingle at several different events over the Homecoming weekend. Events included the Alumni Mixer where fellow alumni mixed and mingled with local vendors and entrepreneurs while enjoying performances by local artists, Happy Hour with LCM, the After Party at the Balinese Ballroom where proceeds benefited the LCM Scholarship Fund, and the Homecoming Parade and Tailgate in Tiger Lane which all lead up to the Homecoming game where fellow alumni cheered on our Memphis Tigers. LCM Black Alumni Chapter Mixer The Luther C. McClellan Black Alumni Chapter gathered at Swanky's Taco Shop for a chapter mixer and networking event in March. Tiger Basketball Watch Party The LCM Black Alumni Chapter joined the Memphis Urban League of Young Professionals to cheer on our Tigers against the Tennessee Volunteers at Fox &amp; Hound in January. View Photos LCM/NPHC Homecoming Step Show The LCM Black Alumni Chapter joined in the Centennial Homecoming fun with its annual Alumni Step Show showcasing stepping skills of current students and returning alumni in October. Proceeds benefit the LCM Scholarship Fund. View Photos Get Involved! Watch this video by President Renee Wills (BBA '07, MS '08), recorded at Vision Forum 2014, to learn more about the Luther C. McClellan Alumni Chapter and how you can get involved! The Luther C. McClellan Chapter continues to look for new graduates and friends to become involved with the group. If you are interested, please contact alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.2586. Chapter Leadership List President: Renee Wills (BBA '07, MS '08) Vice President: Melody Bailey (BA '02) Secretary: Amanda Williams (BA '08, MLS '10) Treasurer: Mallory Sewell (BBA '09, BS '10) Communications Chair: Jamillah Lee (BLS '09) Fundraising Chair/Co-Chair: Jasmine Hockett (BA '11) and TD Brown (BLS '10) Marketing Chair: Sedrick Askew (BLS '10) Membership Chair/Co-Chair: Joya Smith (BA '11, MPA '13) and Nick Scull (BA '10) Programming Chair/Co-Chair: Will Harris (BSET '10) and Nikitia Wilson (BPS '12) Scholarship Chair/Co-Chair: William Terrell (BPS '09, JD '13) and Desmond Robinson (BA '07) For more information or to reach the Chapter Leadership, please contact UofMLCMAlumni@gmail.com . 'Like' us on Facebook! Get Involved Academic Chapters Arts &amp; Sciences School of Law CEHHS Communication Sciences &amp; Disorders FCBE Engineering International MBA Journalism Kemmons Wilson School School of Nursing Masters of Public Administration Music Professional MBA University College Constituent Groups Band Frosh Camp Half Century Hispanic Alumni Lambuth Luther C. McClellan Memphis Pom UMAR Young Alumni Out of Town Atlanta Chicago Dallas Denver Houston Indianapolis Minneapolis Nashville New England New Orleans New York Orlando/Tampa San Francisco St. Louis Washington, DC Student Groups Future Alumni of Memphis Student Ambassador Board Scholarships Pouncer's Pals Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .