#http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/resources/publications.php
Publications - Parent &amp; Family Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parent &amp; Family Services About Events Communication Resources Get Involved Give Back Visit UofM Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Home Parent &amp; Family Services Resources Publications Publications for Parents Articles Great Jobs Great Lives: A Study of More than 30,000 College Graduates Across the U.S. , The 2014 Gallup-Purdue Index Report Bye-Bye Birdies: Sending The Kids Away to College , By Claire Potter, Chronicle of Higher Education Dear Class of 2016: Get Moving on Your Future , By Emily Glazer, The Wall Street Journal (This applies to all classes) 'Snowplow parents' overly involved in college students' lives , By Bella English, The Boston Globe A Manual for 'Helicopter Parents' to Land Their Aircraft , By Lionel Anderson, New York Times 3 Steps to Take if Your College Student Fails a Class: Parents can be supportive when grades aren't up to par but should avoid overstepping, experts say , by Kelci Lynn Lucier, Chicago Tribune Books Don’t Tell Me What to Do, Just Send Money: The Essential Parenting Guide to College (Revised and Updated Edition) Helen E. Johnson and Christine Schelhas-Miller (2011) Letting Go: A Parent’s Guide to Understanding the College Years Karen Levin Coburn and Madge Lawrence Treeger (2009) You're On Your Own (But I'm Here If You Need Me): Mentoring Your Child During the College Years Marjorie Savage (2009) Getting the Best Out of College: A Professor, a Dean, &amp; a Student Tell You How to Maximize Your Experience Peter Feaver, Sue Wasiolek, Anne Crossman (2008) College Survival Tips for Parents: Fostering Growth and Independence in Your Kids Ceil Hall (2008) 25 Ways to Make College Pay Off: Advice for Anxious Parents from a Professor Who's Seen It All Bill Coplin (2007) The Parent's Crash Course in Career Planning: Helping your College Student Succeed Marcia B. Harris and Sharon L. Jones (2007) I’ll Miss You Too: An Off-to-College Guide for Parents and Students Margo E. Woodacre Bane and Stephanie Bane (2006) Parents’ Guide to College Life: 181 Straight Answers on Everything You Can Expect Over the Next Four Years Robin Baskin (2006) My Freshman Year: What A Professor Learned by Becoming A Student Rebekah Nathan (2006) Navigating Your Freshman Year: How to Make the Leap to College Life-and Land on Your Feet Students Helping Students (2005) Empty Nest, Full Heart: The Journey From Home to College Andrea Van Steenhouse (2002) Bringing Home the Laundry: Effective Parenting for College and Beyond Janis Brody (2001) Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Contact Us Got questions, comments, or concerns? We're here to help! Parent &amp; Family E-news Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News. Parent &amp; Family Handbook Learn about opportunities and services available to students. In the Now: September FAQs What you need to know this month to help you help your student Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .