#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/pdfs/dcsstipendinvitation.pdf
Dear S tudent, For the past few years, the Tennessee Department has offered W ork majors with an opportunity to be part of a program in which student s are eligible to receive 3 - 4 semesters of tuition and stipend assistance from DCS in exchange for the DCS for 18 - 24 months after graduation. If you are interested in working for DCS , this is an excellent opportunity to have a significant portion o f your undergraduate education paid for, but please note the reciprocal responsibility of working for the D epartment of Children s S e rvi ces after graduation. Students are eligible to apply when they have 3 - 4 semesters remaining in their program of study (as of Fall 2015 or Spring 2016). I n the sequence of social work courses, this generally means students who are taking SWRK 3902 or SWRK 3903 in the F all or Spring semesters . Students who are accepted into this program are required to take two additional social work courses ( SWRK 4934 and SWRK 4935 ) and complete their field placement at DCS during the normal workday hours of 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. If you are interested in learning more about this opportunity, please visit the DCS website at : - Social - Work - Majors . DCS is accepting application s for admission to the program for those students who would be eligible to join the program next spring or summer. All application materials must be submitted to DCS no later than: November 15 for S pring admission March 15 for S ummer admission If you want to apply for the program (and have 3 - 4 semesters remaini ng be fore you graduate), ple ase complete the forms that are available on the above site (click Application Process link at the bottom) and send them back to the c entral office of DCS. Some of the application materials will take a while to gather so please make sure you download the application packet and complete the mater ials well ah ead of the deadline. Based on their review of applications, DCS will select the stude nts they would like to inter view for possible enrollment in the program. If you are one of those students, DCS w ill contact y ou directly about scheduling an intervie w with DCS program staff and Social Work faculty. In order to help you be more informed about the program, the Program Manager for the T itle IV - E Program, Ms. Brittan y Greene, has agreed to come to Memphis on October 28 - 29 to speak to Unive rsity of Memphis Social Work students about the program. She will be speaking in a number of classes, as well as at the times indicated on the attached flyer. If you have any questions, you are welcome to contact me at ldsmmons@memphis.edu . Sincerely, Lamont D. Simmons, EdD, MSW Assistant Professor Department of Social Work 113 McCord Hall (901) 678 - 3198