#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT4710350.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus MGMT 4710 Strategic Management Capstone Course Sections 004 and 350 Fall Semester 2015 Instructor: Peter Wright , M.B.A., Ph . D . Phone: 901.678. 2434 E - mail: pwright@memphis.edu Office: FCBE # 318 Office Hours: 12:30 1:00 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday 2:25 3:30 Tuesday and Thursday and by appointment Course Overview : Advanced problems in the determination, execution and control of the strategic management process in light of the changing external environment. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: Management 3110 and 3510, as well as senior standing in the College of Business. Enrollment lim ited to graduating seniors. Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : A strategic management outline for the course is provided by the Professor and is available on the eCourseware website . Course Goal s: 1. To develop your capacity to think strategically about a company, its present business position, its long - term direction, its resources and competitive capabilities, the caliber of its strategy, and its opportunities for gaining sustainable competitive adva ntage. 2. To build your skills in conducting strategic analysis in a variety of industries and competitive situations using relevant strategic analysis tools and concepts. 3. To further your understanding of the challenges of competing in a global market. 4. To acquaint you with the managerial tasks associated with planning, implementing, and executing company strategies. 5. To integrate the knowledge in earlier core courses in the business school curriculum. 6. To heighten your awareness of why ethical principl es and socially responsible 7. To enhance your written and oral business communication skills. p. 2 Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This writing - intensive course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning goal s for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with th e overall learning goal s as a student in the BBA program : earningOutcomes.pdf Grading and Evaluation Criteria : Class participation ( see Attendance) 30 % Quizzes, tests and cases 2 0 % Written project and oral presentation (First company project written and orally presented by individual or group effort) 35% Written second project (Second company project written by individual effort) 15% 100% Grade Options A At least a 9 2 average on quizzes, tests, cases, first ( individual or group effort on one publicly traded comp any of your choice) and second ( individual effort on a second publicly traded company of your choice) written projects, as well as oral presentation of the first project. B At least a n 84 average on quizzes, tests, and cases, and first written project as well as its oral presentation. C At least a 7 5 average on quizzes, tests, cases and first written project as well as its oral presentation. D At least a 6 5 average on quizzes, test s, cases, and first written project as well as its oral presentation. F Less than 6 5 average. Note 1 : On time class attendance is important as you will have participation opportunities, quizzes, tests, or case analyses during all class periods. You are expected to actively participate in our discussions. Note 2 : Anyone who wishes has the option of performing all course requirements on an individual basis. Note 3 : Your written company projects due toward the end of the semester are the culminatio n of what you have learned in this course. You should be working on your projects throughout the semester. What I expect from you on these projects is much more extensive than what I expect from you when you analyze cases during the semester. The reason is that you have less time to devote to cases during the semester as they are due in a relatively short p. 3 period of time. For the projects due toward the end of the term you have the entire semester to devote to them. Each of these projects ordinarily con sists of 40 to 60 typewritten (Font 12) pages, double - spaced (1 inch margins). Due dates are strictly adhered to so please do not ask for extensions of time. Written projects submitted later than due dates will not be accepted. Written project s submitte d later than the beginning of the class period will not be accepted. Course Topics and Course Calendar (approximate) : We will sequentially discuss the following topic areas. Depending on how well we do on each topic, our forward progression may be slower in some areas but faster in other areas. All changes will be announced in class. Topics Covered: Approximate Dates : 1. Introduction Tuesday, Aug. 25 2. Macroenvironment of business Thursday, Aug. 27 to Thursday, Sep. 3 3. Industry environment of business Tuesday, Sep . 8 to Thursday, Sep. 24 4. Organizational mission and goals, Tuesday, Sep. 29 t o T hurs day, Oct. 1 social responsibility, ethics 5. Corporate strategy formulation Tuesday, Oct. 6 to Tuesday, Oct . 22 (includes Fall Break Oct. 10 to Oct. 13 ) 6. Business unit strategy formulation Thursday, Oct . 27 to Tuesday, Nov. 3 & functional strategies 7. Strategy implementa tion & control Thursday, Nov. 5 8. Last days s ounding board w ritten Tuesday, Nov. 10 to T ues day, Nov. 17 p rojects 9. Group e xercise T hursday , Nov. 19 10. All written f irst and s econd T uesday , Nov. 24 p rojects d ue, o ral p resentations of f irst p roject by one set of groups 11. Oral presentations of f irst Tuesday, Dec. 1 p roject by the r emaining set of g roups Please note due dates are strictly adhered to and refer to the day due, at the beginning of the class. p. 4 Course Policies E - M ai l : All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all o fficial course correspondence at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not regularly responsibility. Attendance: T his is neither an online nor a correspondence class . Your on - time and physical attendance are essential. A ttendance will be taken. On - time class attendance is important as you will have participation opportunities, quizzes, tests, or case analyses during all class periods. You are expected to actively participate in our class discussions. Adding / Dropping : If you have questions ab out adding or dropping classes, please refer to this page on the . Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. Note that using a Solutions Manual is considered c heating. Should your professor have evidence that using a Solutions Manual has occurred, he/she may take steps Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . WORDS OF COMMON SENSE 1. All of us are capable of achieving most of what we want out of life. But if we The rest of our undertakings will suffer. Consequently, we should choose fewer tasks to concentrate on so that we can do them well. 2. In order for us to succeed, we should realize that problems that are outside of class and work (when employed) should not be used as excuses as to why we are not able to make deadlines or do a good job in class or at work. Everyone , at one time or another , ha s personal problems (sickness, family problems, love problems, death of loved ones, etc.) and other problems (lack of money, too much work, too little time, etc.). Those who succeed will accomplish the requirements of classes and employment, in spite of pr oblems. Those who fail will view themselves as having personal and other problems outside of class or work. Such individuals have a p. 5 tendency to think that only they ha ve problems. All we have to do is to open our eyes to realize none of us have exclusive rights to various miseries. If we stop thinking of only ourselves, we realize that people with more severe problems than ourselves have transcended them and become su ccessful. You show me a person without problems and I will show you a corpse. 3. All of us, in the final analysis, will be judged on the basis of our intentions, efforts and results. In most situations, the emphasis is put on results. For the purposes of this course, all the above three factors count, though results is still the number one this class are rigid. If you do not have the time to attack the many requirement s and deadlines in this course, you should drop it. Thinking or saying that you need to take this class for graduation, in spite of the fact that you do not have the time to devote to it, will only frustrate you. You will either get a low grade, or will ultimately drop the course. 4. Your attitude speaks of how much you care about a class or place of employment. Statements made by you as well as your actions to a degree express your attitude toward this class. Note the following points that should be avoi ded because they indicate a negative attitude toward this class: a. You do not come to class because of other problems such as studying for other tests, sickness, work, family problems, transportation problems, etc. b. You come to class, but have not prepared for the class. c. You come to class, but ask to be excused to leave the class early, because you have to report to a meeting or job interview, etc. d. You are concerned about your grade. But instead of putting more effort and time on the next project in order t o improve your grade, you argue that you should have received a higher grade on the previous project, or that others should have received a lower grade. e. You ask for deadlines to be extended, or request that special arrangements be made for you, because of what you believe to be unique problems that you face. f. You believe that too much work is assigned to you and that because you have work obligations, family obligations, and other class assignments, that in this class you should be expected to do less work.