#http://www.memphis.edu/philosophy/undergraduate/
Undergraduate - Philosophy - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Philosophy BA Graduate People Research News &amp; Events Resources SJP Contact Undergraduate Program Resources About The Online B.A. Advising Pre-law Advising Philosophy Circle About the Philosophy Circle Awards and Activities Home Philosophy Undergraduate About the Undergraduate Program in Philosophy Philosophy Major Program objectives for a B.A. in Philosophy are (a) to acquire fundamental knowledge reflecting the subdivisions within the discipline; (b) to express a high degree of satisfaction with the program and instruction within the department; and (c) to be able to demonstrate skills which will be beneficial in further study or in their career paths. A. University General Education Program (41 hours) See Graduation from the University link for the University General Education Program requirements. B. College and Degree (B.A.) Requirements (18-19 hours) The College of Arts and Sciences and Bachelor of Arts requirements are in addition to the University General Education Program requirements. C. The Major (30 hours) Completion of 30 semester hours in philosophy courses including PHIL 1101 or 1102, 1611, 3001 (Fall), 3002 (Spring), 3411 (Fall) or 3511 (Spring) and 15 additional upper division semester hours. To prepare philosophy students for success in a number of fields, the department offers a variety of upper division courses. See the philosophy section of the Undergraduate Catalog for course descriptions. D. Electives Additional electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120. See the Undergraduate Catalog for more information. E. Honors Program This program is open to philosophy majors with a 3.0 overall average and a 3.5 average in philosophy. The student will complete, with a minimum grade of "B", a thesis submitted for credit in PHIL 4891. The thesis topic must be approved by the thesis director before the student registers for PHIL 4891. Those students who complete the program and the regular college requirements will be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having their degree conferred "With Honors in Philosophy." Moreover, the student's diploma and record at the University of Memphis will reflect this distinction. Philosophy Minor Completion of 18 semester hours in philosophy courses, including PHIL 1101 or 1102, 1611, and 12 upper division semester hours. In consultation with the coordinator of undergraduate studies in philosophy, a student may design a minor (18 hours) that applies to the student's major area of study. Online BA in Philosophy - Concentration in Applied Ethics This program focuses on ethical theories and ethical problem-solving in the context of a number of professional domains including medicine, law, and business. Core courses in this program provide a solid foundation in the history of philosophy and logic. This degree may be completed in the following ways: (a) University of Memphis courses (entirely online), or (b) by combining University of Memphis courses (online and on-campus), or (c) by combining University of Memphis courses (online and on-campus) with a limited number of approved courses transferred from other institutions (please consult the Undergraduate Catalog for more information). Additionally, out-of-state students may qualify for in-state tuition. Click here for more information. Degree Requirements This program's degree requirements are the same as listed above (Philosophy Major) except part C. which will read as follows. C. The Major (30 hours) Completion of 30 semester hours in philosophy courses comprised of the two lists, Core and Applied Ethics, below. To prepare philosophy students for success in a number of fields, the department offers courses in the following sub-divisions of philosophy. Core (15 hrs) - 1102, 1611, 3001, 3002, 3411 Applied (15 hrs.) - 3514, 3515, 3571, 3781 Availability of Online Classes Development of online classes began in the Fall of 2010. Not all classes required for the major are available online, but will be in the near future. Below is a list of classes currently available online and which are still in development. This list will be updated as the classes become available online. Currently Available - 1102, 1611, 3411, 3514, 3515, 3741 In Development - 3001, 3002, 3571, 3781 For further information about this program, please contact Melissa Ebbers by completing the form on University of Memphis eCampus website. Undergraduate Program Resources About The Online B.A. Advising Pre-law Advising Philosophy Circle About the Philosophy Circle Awards and Activities Apply to the Graduate Program Want to pursue a MA or PhD in Philosophy? Find out how to apply. Online B.A. Want to pursue your college degree and manage your busy lifestyle? Experience online classes at the UofM. Pre-law Advising Are you interested in a career in the legal profession? Consider a degree in Philosophy! Support the Department Find out how you can support the Department of Philosophy. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/28/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .