#http://www.memphis.edu/parking/permit/general.php
General Permit Parking - Parking &amp; Transportation Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parking and Transportation Services Staff Directory Permit &amp; Other Parking Lambuth/Millington Parking Resources Permit and Other Parking General Permit Parking Motorcycle Parking Priority Permit Parking Resident Permit Parking Park Avenue Campus University Department Parking Visitor Parking Home Parking &amp; Transportation Services Permit and Other Parking General Permit Parking General Permit Parking For students, General Permit Parking is paid for through the Maintenance Fee portion of your semester tuition. Once you have registered for classes, a semester validation sticker will be mailed to the address on file with Student Records. New students are mailed a permit (hangtag) along with a semester validation sticker prior to fee payment. The permits (hangtags) run on a three-year cycle and need to be updated every semester. If, for any reason, the student does not receive the semester validation sticker or permit through mail, he/she needs to come to the Parking &amp; Transportation Services Office to obtain one. There is a grace period for the first full week of class for those who have not received a permit/sticker. Those who have not picked up either of these will be subject to receiving a citation after the grace period. ( Lot 57 , Lot 56 , Lot 54 , Lot 51 , Lot 50 , Lot 46 , Lot 44 , Lot 23 , Lot 17 , Lot 15 , Lot 14 , Lot 13 , Lot 12 , Lot 11 , and Lot 5 ) The faculty/staff rate for General Permit Parking is $15.30 per month. Notice to all Permit Holders Any lost or stolen permits must be reported to the Parking Office. There is a $10.00 replacement fee for all lost or stolen permits (hangtags). All internal streets on campus that are not gated are restricted for Residents Only . Continuing Education Continuing Education permits are available for non-degree credited courses. Some examples of non-degree credited courses are: Intensive English for International Students Suzuki Programs Bar Exam Continuing Education Permits are sold at the rate of $30.00 and allow parking in any General Parking Lots. Parking Lots Spaces General Permit Access Lot 5 160 General Permit Parking Spaces 6 Visitor Metered Spaces 4 Motorcycle Spaces General Permit Access Lot 11 116 General Permit Parking Spaces 5 Accessible Parking Spaces General Permit Access Lot 12 21 General Permit Parking Spaces 9 Visitor Spaces 2 Accessible Parking Spaces General Gated Access Lot 13 45 General Permit Parking Spaces 2 Visitor Metered Spaces 1 Accessible Parking Space 1 Reserved Parking Space General Permit Access Lot 14 29 General Permit Parking Spaces 3 Accessible Parking Spaces 3 Loading Zone Spaces General Permit Access Lot 15 2010 General Permit Parking Spaces 32 Visitor Metered Spaces 3 Accessible Parking Spaces 4 Motorcycle Spaces 15 Reserved Parking Spaces 9 Loading Zone Spaces General Permit Parking Lot 17 92 General Permit Parking Spaces General Permit Parking Lot 23 27 General Permit Parking Spaces 1 Accessible Parking Space 6 Reserved Parking Spaces General Permit Access Lot 44 1375 General Permit Parking Spaces 16 Visitor Metered Parking Spaces 20 Accessible Parking Spaces General Permit Access Lot 46 (Entrance/Exit from Poplar Avenue only) 353 General Permit Parking Spaces 4 Motorcycle Parking Spaces General Permit Access Lot 50 122 General Permit Parking Spaces General Permit Access Lot 51 71 General Permit Parking Spaces General Permit Access Lot 54 15 General Permit Parking Spaces 1 Accessible Parking Space 4 Visitor Metered Spaces General Permit Access Lot 56 40 General Permit Parking Spaces 1 Accessible Parking Space General Permit Access Lot 57 27 General Permit Parking Spaces 3 Accessible Parking Spaces 2 Loading Zone Spaces Permit and Other Parking General Permit Parking Motorcycle Parking Priority Permit Parking Resident Permit Parking Park Avenue Campus University Department Parking Visitor Parking TigerPark Don’t wait in line…Go online! The Blue Line The Blue Line shuttle at the University of Memphis. Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place. Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .