#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/cas/anth.php
ANTH Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning ANTH Courses ANTHROPOLOGY (ANTH) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: ANTH 6990-6999. Special Topics in Anthropology. (3). Addresses various areas of anthropology; topics are announced in the online course listing. May be repeated with change of topic. ANTH 7490-99. Special Topics in Globalization, Development and Culture (3). Topics of special interest in Globalization, Development and Culture. No more than six hours may be counted toward a degree in Anthropology. PREREQUISITE: Non-majors must have permission of instructor. ANTH 7590-99. Special Topics in Medical Anthropology. (3). Topics in Medical Anthropology. No more than six hours may be counted toward degree requirements in Anthropology. PREREQUISITE: Non-majors must have permission of instructor. ANTH 7690-99. Special Topics in Anthropology. (3). Topics vary and are announced in the online Course Listing. No more than six hours may be counted toward degree requirements in Anthropology. PREREQUISITE: Non-majors must have permission of instructor. ANTH 6051 - Anthropology/Education (3) Advanced study of the cultural transmission process with emphasis on identifying differing behavioral, cognitive, and learning styles of various ethnic groups within American society and selected third world countries. Encounters of U.S. subcultural groups with the public education system. PREREQUISITE: Nonmajors must have permission of instructor. ANTH 6111 - Human Adaptations (3) Examines the physical and cultural adaptations of humans in an evolutionary and ecological context; information from primate studies, the archaeological record, and studies of contemporary societies; environmental context of physical adaptations, cultural adaptations, language, social organization. ANTH 6120 - Africa's New World Comm (3) Survey of African-American cultures in the New World emanating from 17th and 18th century slave trade; focus on African Diaspora; Caribbean, Central America, South America, and North America. ANTH 6220 - Cultural Perspec/Environment (3) Role of culture in the use and management of natural resources; discusses how societies construct knowledge about nature and attribute value to it; examines how indigenous knowledge, alternative value systems, and traditional management strategies influence policy decisions at the local, national, and international levels. ANTH 6253 - Anthropology of Religion (3) Comparative analysis of religious systems and their functional relationships to other cultural institutions; interrelations of myth, magic, and ritual; types of religious institutions and religious practitioners. ANTH 6270 - Ancient Human Soc/Envir Chng (3) (Same as ESCI 6270). Examination of past people and their environments from the Ice Age to recent times; archaeological and paleoecological data. Three lecture hours per week. ANTH 6302 - Native People of North America (3) Intensive ethnological study of various prehistoric cultures from earliest times until historic contact. ANTH 6325 - Archaeol Fld/Lab Techn (3) (Same as ESCI 6325). Instruction in field excavation, specimen preparation, use of survey instruments and photography, map making, archaeological record keeping; methods and techniques in archaeological laboratory analysis; emphasis on organization and supervision of laboratory procedures. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. ANTH 6350 - Archaeology of Collapse (3) (Same as ESCI 6350). Emphasis on archaeology of regional politics and archaic states throughout the world. Overview of social and political collapse of complex societies. ANTH 6411 - Urban Anthropology (3) Anthropological studies of pre-industrial and industrial cities; urbanization, movements of social transformation and other processes of adjustment to an urban milieu; urban slums, ethnic enclaves, and housing developments in cross-cultural perspective; urban and social kinship and social organization; urban community development; urban research techniques. ANTH 6412 - Neigh Dev/Social Entrep (3) (Same as PADM 6412). Role of various institutions and their relationship to developmental needs of inner-city neighborhoods; evolution of American cities as context for understanding urban neighborhoods, poverty, and community problem-solving; particular attention given to role of government, corporations, and foundations in shaping policy at local level. ANTH 6413 - Anth of Tourism/Environment (3) Anthropological theories on conservation, indigenous rights, sustainability, and development as related to tourism development; assessment of ecotourism strategies, including community-managed conservation tourism, "voluntourism," paticipatory sustainable tourism, and the role of nongovernmental organizations in tourism management; special emphasis on indigenous rights. ANTH 6414 - Anthropology of Work (3) This course provides a survey of anthropological perspectives on work. Topics include: cross-cultural perspectives on work, gender, and personhood; labor migration; formal and informal labor markets; globalization; workplaces as ethnographic field sites; organizational and occupational hierarchies; paid and unpaid labor; occupational health; and work, leisure, and everyday life. ANTH 6415 - Anthropology Human Rights (3) Anthropological approaches to critical human rights issues, debates, practices including gender, children, health, land, genocide, resettlement; broadly-defined human rights in specific national and cultural contexts; explores what anthropology, practitioners, and ethnographic methods offer our understanding of how human rights are interpreted and negotiated. ANTH 6416 - Culture/Identity/Power (3) Anthropological approaches to human identity in cross-cultural contexts. Examines how culture and power inform understandings and practices related to difference and stratification, and the forces of identity formation and reproduction cross-culturally with emphasis on ways that race, ethnicity, class, gender, sexuality, religion, nation, and community are constructed, negotiated, and resisted. ANTH 6417 - Food/Culture/Power (3) Anthropological study at the intersection of the global industrialized food system and emerging alternatives; construction and negotiation of value, taste, and meaning of food throughout the life cycle of the food system, from field to fork and table to trash; marginality, power, and social action in food systems. PREREQUISITE: ANTH 1200 or permission of instructor. ANTH 6431 - Culture and Consumerism (3) Advanced study of consumption from an anthropological perspective; contemporary consumer culture in the U S and around the world; emphasis on how consumption shapes/reflects individual identities and cultural trends; consumer movements and anti-consumerism; sociocultural and environmental impacts of consumer behavior; design anthropology and the role of ethnography in market. ANTH 6510 - Health/Culture/Environ Justice (3) Creation of health inequalities through socio-cultural forces that shape differential exposure to environmental hazards; basic concepts in cultural ecology and environmental health; anthropological approaches to understanding human biology; race and class as influences of disease risk in U. S. and global south; grassroots and community-based research efforts to combat environmental health inequalities. ANTH 6511 - Medical Anthropology (3) Surveys the anthropology of health, illness, and curing systems, and how cultural, evolutionary, and environmental forces shape health and healing. Topics include ethnomedicine, nutrition, mental health, reproduction, addictions, health ecology, and evolutionary medicine. Examines how illness perceptions and health behaviors yield deeper insight into identity, values, agency, and health disparities. Considers roles for applied medical anthropology to improve care. ANTH 6521 - Culture, Soc & Mental Health (3) Examination of mental health and illness as a set of subjective experiences, social processes and objects of knowledge and intervention; cultural models of mental illness and healing; therapy as a cultural practice; substance abuse and addiction; mental health and relations of power; sociocultural dimensions of psycho-pharmacology. ANTH 6531 - Alcohol/Drugs/Culture (3) Cross-cultural comparison of beliefs, rituals, and meaning of substance use and abuse; examination of biological and cultural evidence on the origin and development of problems; implications for prevention, early intervention, and treatment. ANTH 6541 - Nutritional Anth (3) Cross-cultural comparison of human diet; assessment; cultural and health value of foods; hunger and malnutrition; acculturation and dietary change. ANTH 6551 - Culture/Sex/Childbirth (3) Review of biological, environmental, social, and cultural factors influencing human reproduction; comparison of cultural and clinical perspectives on sexual orientation and behavior, sexually transmitted diseases, fertility, birth control, pregnancy, birth, and postpartum care; evaluation of alternative delivery systems in Western and non-Western societies. ANTH 6571 - Race and Health Disparities (3) History of scientific racism and race in the public and healthcare spheres; current understandings of human biological and genetic variation; role of cultural constructions of race in differential exposures to health hazards and access to health care; racial health disparities; strategies for addressing health inequalities. ANTH 6660 - Museum Collections (3) (Same as ARTH 6660). Museum collection theory and methods, including collection policy, development, preservation, documentation, and interpretation. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ANTH 6661 - Collections Research (3) (Same as ARTH 6661). Introduces students in object-based disciplines to museum collections research methods and their applications to exhibitions, catalogs, and scholarly publications. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ANTH 6662 - Museum Exhibitions (3) (Same as ARTH 6662). Museum exhibition methods and theory, including research, design, layout, object selection and handling, installation, public programing, and evaluation. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ANTH 6680 - Applied Archaeology/Museums (3) (Same as ESCI 6680). Representations of cultural heritage in a broad array of public venues; repatriation, cultural patrimony, cultural resource management, civic engagement, rights and responsibilities of stakeholders, public involvement in museum representations, performance and education, culture and memory. ANTH 6990 - Gender and Environment (3) Explore the relationship between gender and the environment through interdisciplinary approaches within the social sciences. ANTH 7002 - Reading For Comps (1-3) Arranged on individual basis for anthropology graduate students only. May be repeated. PREREQUISITE: Limited to anthropology majors; approval of graduate coordinator. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ANTH 7075 - Methods In Anthropology (4) Critical examination of field methods and research designs in selected areas of anthropology; major trends in contemporary anthropological research as a preparation for applied research. PREREQUISITE: Non-majors must have permission of instructor. ANTH 7076 - Anth Data Analysis (4) Construction and analysis of data bases developed from ongoing anthropological projects; review of frequently used statistical techniques in anthropological literature, hypothesis testing, and methods of presentation. PREREQUISITE: ANTH 7075 or permission of instructor. ANTH 7100 - Sem Biocultural Anth (3) Topics include principles of human genetics, the biological and cultural aspects of race, the hereditary and environmental factors in modern human variation, medical and nutritional anthropology. PREREQUISITE: Non-majors must have permission of instructor. ANTH 7200 - History/Anth Theory (3) Covers growth of anthropology as a discipline nationally and internationally and development of major theoretical paradigms; addresses all subfields of anthropology--cultural, biological, archaeology, linguistic, and applied; designed and required for graduate anthropology students, but open to graduate students in other disciplines. ANTH 7250 - Comm Culture Evaluation (3) Cultural perspectives on program evaluation in community settings; theoretical and methodological approaches to evaluation of human service programs; culturally competent evaluations using ethnographic methods; role of anthropology in program evaluation at national and international levels. PREREQUISITE: Non-majors must have permission of instructor. ANTH 7255 - Applied Anth & Develop (3) Cross-cultural review of processes of change, grassroots development and planning in industrialized world; models of change, specializations in applied anthropology, and development of public policy on international issues of housing, education, health, and economic development. ANTH 7400 - Globalization, Dev, & Culture (3) Surveys the role of anthropology and culture in globalization and development contexts. Topics include: globalization, migration, diaspora, deterritorialization, identity, transnationalism; the anthropology of planning and policy; gender and development; methods and ethics in development anthropology. Emphasis on alternative development at the local and global level, including participation, community and indigenous technical knowledge, cultural heritage, and environmental justice. ANTH 7411 - Urban Anth In Mid-South (3) Discussion and analysis of community economic development in the Mid-South region from prehistoric to present time; inter-relationship of cultural values, regional social structures and political economy in terms of international and national industrial trends. ANTH 7511 - Medical Anth Theory & Practice (3) Concepts and techniques to develop and improve prevention initiatives and health services and access to care, such as medical narrative, needs assessment, health program evaluation, health marketing, and cultural competency. Emphasis is placed on engagement and collaboration, and on applied medical anthropology's influence on policies, programs, and services that advance community wellbeing and reverse health disparities. PREREQUISITE: Non-majors must have permission of instructor. ANTH 7521 - Biocultural Epidemiolgy (3) Concepts and research uniting epidemiology and medical anthropology; explores epidemiologic web of agent, host, and environment in disease; stresses interplay of sociocultural, behavioral, and environmental risk factors; examines applications of epidemiology theory and methods to medical anthropology and global health policy. ANTH 7661 - Museum Practices (3) (Same as ARTH 7661). Museum administration, finance, collection management, conservation, education, exhibition design, marketing, and visitor services. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ANTH 7662 - Museums & Communities (3) (Same as ARTH 7662). History and theory of museums, governance, audiences, and current topics in the profession. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ANTH 7669 - Museum Internship (3-6) (Same as ARTH 7669). Structured experience in selected aspects of museum practice. Includes 150 contract hours in museum and colloquium. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: ANTH 7661, 7662 and/or permission of instructor. Grades of A-F or IP will be given. ANTH 7970 - Directed Indiv Writing (1-3) Intensive guided study of original data in areas selected by advanced students and accepted by the instructor; preparation of manuscripts for publication. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or I will be given. ANTH 7975 - Directed Indiv Reading (1-3) Intensive guided study in areas selected by advanced students and accepted by the staff. PREREQUISITE: Permission of staff. Grades of A-F, or I will be given. ANTH 7980 - Directed Indiv Research (1-3) Intensive guided study of original data in areas selected by advanced students and accepted by the staff; preparation for publication. PREREQUISITE: Permission of chair and the designated staff. Grades of A-F, or I will be given. ANTH 7984 - Practicum Proseminar (1) Training modules to plan, execute, document, and evaluate effective practicum assignments. Emphasis is placed on collaboration, engagement, and capacity building to benefit community partners, and on designing and conducting projects which strengthen skills, experience, and professionalism in applied anthropology. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ANTH 7985 - Practicum (3-6) Supervised practical experience in the application of anthropological principles in an agency or facility appropriate to applied anthropology. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. ANTH 8075 - Methods In Anthropology (4) Critical examination of field methods and research designs in selected areas of anthropology; major trends in contemporary anthropological research as a preparation for applied research. PREREQUISITE: Non-majors must have permission of instructor. ANTH 8076 - Anth Data Analysis (4) Construction and analysis of data bases developed from ongoing anthropological projects; review of frequently used statistical techniques in anthropological literature, hypothesis testing, and methods of presentation. PREREQUISITE: ANTH 7075 or permission of instructor. ANTH 8100 - Sem Biocultural Anth (3) Topics include principles of human genetics, the biological and cultural aspects of race, the hereditary and environmental factors in modern human variation, medical and nutritional anthropology. PREREQUISITE: Non-majors must have permission of instructor. ANTH 8200 - History/Anth Theory (3) Covers growth of anthropology as a discipline nationally and internationally and development of major theoretical paradigms; addresses all subfields of anthropology--cultural, biological, archaeology, linguistic, and applied; designed and required for graduate anthropology students, but open to graduate students in other disciplines. ANTH 8250 - Comm Culture Evaluation (3) Cultural perspectives on program evaluation in community settings; theoretical and methodological approaches to evaluation of human service programs; culturally competent evaluations using ethnographic methods; role of anthropology in program evaluation at national and international levels. PREREQUISITE: Non-majors must have permission of instructor. ANTH 8521 - Biocultural Epidemiolgy (3) Concepts and research uniting epidemiology and medical anthropology; explores epidemiologic web of agent, host, and environment in disease; stresses interplay of sociocultural, behavioral, and environmental risk factors; examines applications of epidemiology theory and methods to medical anthropology and global health policy. ANTH 8975 - Directed Indiv Reading (1-3) Intensive guided study in areas selected by advanced students and accepted by the staff. PREREQUISITE: Permission of staff. Grades of A-F, or I will be given. ANTH 8980 - Directed Indiv Research (1-3) Intensive guided study of original data in areas selected by advanced students and accepted by the staff; preparation for publication. PREREQUISITE: Permission of chair and the designated staff. Grades of A-F, or I will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .