#http://www.memphis.edu/planning/research-outreach/
Research/Outreach, City of Regional Planning - Planning - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. City and Regional Planning About Programs People Research/Outreach Design Collaborative Research and Outreach Resources Student Projects Mid-South Planning &amp; Zoning Institute Regional Economic Development Center Home Planning Research/Outreach City and Regional Planning Research/Outreach MEMPHIS MUSIC MAGNET / Memphis Slim collaboratory Since 2008, faculty and students have worked with community partners and industry stakeholders on the development of the Memphis Music Magnet. The plan builds on the cultural assets and heritage of the Soulsville USA neighborhood and seeks to create a community where music and art tell stories, activate spaces, reclaim vacant buildings, create interaction, and connect neighbors new and old. The university-community partnership has received significant external funding including a $678,000 grant from ArtPlace, a national consortium of philanthropic foundations. The Memphis Symphony Orchestra (MSO) engaged in a yearlong residency in the Soulsville neighborhood with programming that included a series of unique musical collaborations performed in currently vacant community spaces, mentoring at neighborhood schools, programs for youth and seniors, and leadership training for area neighborhood associations. To host the MSO concerts and other cultural activities, a vacant grocery store at a key neighborhood location was reimagined and repurposed as a temporary performance venue. The kickoff event at the venue featured Soulsville native and soul legend Booker T. Jones alongside the symphony and youth performers from the Stax Music Academy. The Memphis Slim Collaboratory opened in April 2014 during the annual Stax to the Max festival. The former home of blues legend Memphis Slim was redeveloped as a music-centered community space for artistic collaboration, music training and storytelling. Members of Slim's family came from Chicago and California to attend the opening reception and honor the music legend. The membership-based Collaboratory, managed by two full-time staff, is equipped with video-casting rooms to record oral histories, and is anchored by a recording studio. The studio is run on a cooperative basis to support emerging artists as well as apprentices learning the production business. The building was designed by br3gs Architects and has been recognized with numerous awards, including: American Institute of Architect's TN Award of Merit, Builder Magazine's Builder's Choice Award, and American-Architect's Building of the Week. Grant funding from ArtPlace America and the Kresge Foundation supported the redevelopment and staffing of the Collaboratory. Green Machine Mobile Food Market The Green Machine Mobile Food Market, launched through the cooperative efforts of St. Patrick Community Outreach Center, the Vance Avenue Collaborative and the Graduate Program in City and Regional Planning, began operating in 2013. Students and faculty assisted residents and leaders in securing and converting a MATA bus, enlisting food providers, and designing routes to maximize the number of poor and working class families served by the bus. The Green Machine, designed to bring high quality and affordable fresh fruits and vegetables to the seventy communities in Memphis lacking a full-service supermarket, has been a welcome addition to Memphis' growing food security and local foods movements. Bike friendly university technical review Memphis' Bikeway/Pedestrian Program Manager and University of Memphis planning alumnus, Kyle Wagenschutz, led a 2014 Project Planning Studio course focused on bicycling improvements in and around the university. Students prepared an application to the League of American Bicyclists (LAB) to certify the University of Memphis as a Bike Friendly University and developed a set of short-term and long-term recommendations. The classroom approach to preparing the BFU application has been adopted as a best practice by LAB and has become a model for other universities. west Memphis EcoPark Awarded a Memphis Regional Greenprint Plan planning sub-grant, the Department partnered with the City of West Memphis to complete plans for the West Memphis EcoPark. The Spring 2014 Project Planning Studio course guided the process of planning for a greenspace amenity on undeveloped land at the western terminus of the Harahan Bridge. The EcoPark is designed to complement Big River Crossing, which will convert a portion of the Harahan Bridge over the Mississippi into a bicycle and pedestrian pathway. Brownsville on the Move: A Comprehensive Plan for Creating a More Vibrant, Sustainable, and Just Community Comprehensive Plan: Part I Part II Part III Vance Avenue Collaborative Vance Avenue Community Transformation Plan Vance Avenue Renaissance Plan (prepared by the Neighborhood Subcommittee) Preliminary Planning Framework Data Book Media: WMCTV - Taking Back Our Neighborhoods Memphis Daily News coverage Grow Memphis coverage of the Vance Avenue Garden University of Memphis video overview South Memphis Revitalization Action Plan Fact Sheet Executive Summary Plan Display Boards University Neighborhood Comprehensive Plan Prepared by students in the Comprehensive Planning Studio class during the Fall semester of 2007. Students worked with a variety of groups from throughout the University Neighborhood to create a plan to guide future development over the course of the next couple of decades. Visit the University Neighborhood Comprehensive Plan Web site Frayser: A Turning Point A report on transportation issues in Frayser prepared by the students of PLAN 7006: Comprehensive Planning Studio (Fall 2006). Full Report Maps Crossroads: The Economics of Cities (blog) Student /faculty blog that explores the relationship between city planning, public finance, urban economics, and the fiscal health of communities. Fiscal Issues in Community &amp; Economic Development An e-text authored by the students of PLAN 7011: Financing Community Development (Spring 2006) CSX Potential Light Rail Transit Supportive Development: Corridor Concepts and Site Designs Prepared by the students of PLAN 7008: Site Planning (Fall 2004) Full Report Presentation ( Part 1 / Part 2 ) Frayser Futures: A Comprehensive Plan for Growth and Development Prepared for the Frayser Community Association and the Frayser Community Development Corporation by the Graduate Program in City &amp; Regional Planning, with assistance from the Memphis and Shelby County Division of Planning and Development, and the Memphis Division of Housing and Community Development. (Spring 2003) Report Research and Outreach Resources Student Projects Mid-South Planning &amp; Zoning Institute Regional Economic Development Center How to Apply Applying for admission to the program is easy Financial Aid Learn about Graduate Assistantships, Fellowships and Tuition Savings Program for Students Contact Us! Main office contact and location information. SUAPP City &amp; Regional Planning is a part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/12/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .