#http://www.memphis.edu/cristal/stem_opportunities/faculty.php
Faculty Opportunities - CRISTAL - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Center for Research and Innovation in STEM Teaching and Learning (CRISTAL) About Membership STEM Opportunities Active Grants STEM Hub STEM Opportunities UofM Students UofM Faculty K-12 Students Teachers Useful Links Home CRISTAL STEM Opportunities Faculty Opportunities Great Opportunities for UofM faculty STEMINARS STEMinars are monthly information meetings for faculty and the community interested in STEM education to share ideas, research and interests related to STEM outreach, recruitment, retention, pedagogy, curriculum and best practices. These are typically held at varying times to meet the needs of faculty. College of Arts and Sciences Travel Enrichment Fund Travel Enrichment funds have been designated for the use of CAS faculty for attending a conference as a presenter or to conduct research. Applications for anything other than these two purposes will not be accepted. Participation in internships, study abroad programs, summer schools, seminars and workshops are not eligible for funding. Deadlines are July 15, Oct. 15, and March 15 of each year. For more information, visit: Fulbright Scholars Program The Fulbright Program was established in 1946 under legislation introduced by then-Senator J. William Fulbright of Arkansas. The Fulbright Program is sponsored by the U.S. Department of State's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. The Fulbright Program awards approximately 8,000 grants annually. Roughly 1,600 U.S. students, 4,000 foreign students, 1,200 U.S. scholars, and 900 visiting scholars receive awards, in addition to several hundred teachers and professionals. Approximately 310,000 "Fulbrighters" have participated in the Program since its inception in 1946. For more information on the Fulbright Scholars Program please visit: The University of Memphis Study Abroad Office can also help assist faculty with Fulbright questions. Please see Grant Information Are you looking for a grant to fund research? Grant information is sent out to CRISTAL Membership via email newsletters, as well as posted on this page. The grants listed below are normally given out yearly. Please be watching for updates for the most up-to-date postings or check the NSF site directly. PIVOT-Grant Research Tool Interested in researching grant opportunities? Go to the the Research Support Services link to learn more about COS-Pivot, a search engine available to faculty through UofM at PIVOT Grant Writing Tips Avoid some common pitfalls in grant writing. The article below ( Ten Errors Proposal Teams Should Avoid ) is very helpful: stemgrants.com/10-errors-proposal-teams-should-avoid/ This document is essential for writing NSF Grants: Common Guidelines for Education Research and Development . See nsf.gov/pubs/2013/nsf13126/nsf13126.pdf Upcoming NSF Grants Looking for an upcoming NSF grant? This site has the most up-to-date listing of upcoming grants by month: nsf.gov/funding/pgm_list.jsp?org=NSF&amp;ord=date Typical NSF Grants that are usually available include: NSF Advancing Informal STEM Learning (AISL) (Typically due in early November) Invests in research and development of innovative and field-advancing out-of-school STEM learning and emerging STEM learning environments to: Expand access to the highest quality STEM resources Contribute new research that advances informal learning Engage the public in novel, real-time and simulated experiences with scientific phenomena, and Advance STEM engagement through exhibits, programs, and other experiences at science centers, museums, zoos, etc. Web site: nsf.gov/funding/pgm_summ.jsp?pims_id=504793 Awards range from 1-5 years up to 1.5 million NSF Math Science Partnership (MSP) (Typically due in early September) Designed to improve K-12 student achievement in mathematics and science Areas: K-12 STEM Teacher Preparation Web site: k-12.state.tn.us/update/director/MSP_Grant_Focus_Areas.pdf Professional Learning for teachers. This year (2014) there are some significant changes. Please see PDF. NSF Innovative Technology Experiences for Students and Teachers (ITEST) (Typically due in mid-November) ITEST seeks: To develop, implement and evaluate interventions that encourage K-12 students to develop interest in and to prepare for careers in the STEM and information and communications technology (ICT) workforce To produce research findings that build knowledge about approaches, models, and interventions, and To equip teachers with the resources to ensure students consider choosing STEM and ICT careers Web site: nsf.gov/funding/pgm_summ.jsp?pims_id=5467 Awards are for up to 3 years for up to $1.2 million NSF Discovery Research K-12 (DRK12) (Typically due in mid-October) Seeks to enhance the learning and teaching STEM by preK-12 students, teachers, administrators, and parents Emphasis on research projects focused on innovative resources, models and tools Web site: nsf.gov/pubs/2013/nsf13601/nsf13601.htm Awards range from 2-4 years and from $450,000 to $4,000,000 NSF Research on Education and Learning (REAL) (Letter of Intent-usually due October, Grant-usually due January) Represents the substantive foci of three previous EHR programs: Research and Evaluation on Education in Science and Engineering (REESE), Research in Disabilities Education (RDE), and Research on Gender in Science and Engineering (GSE). Emphasis placed on the accumulation of robust evidence to inform efforts to (a) understand, (b) build theory to explain, and ( c) suggest interventions (and innovations) to address persistent challenges in STEM interest, education, learning, and participation. Other Grants U.S. Dept. of Education Institute of Education Sciences Mathematics and Science Education Education Technology Effective Teachers and Effective Teaching Early Learning Programs Special Education Postsecondary and Adult Education THEC Improving Teacher Quality Grants (Announcements are typically made in Aug. of each year with RFP attached, and submissions due in October). TBR Research Grants (Information is usually disseminated in November of each year). UofM Faculty Research Grants STEM Opportunities UofM Students UofM Faculty K-12 Students Teachers Useful Links Give to CRISTAL Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .