#http://www.memphis.edu/students/studentservices.php
Student Services - Current Students - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UofM Current Students Home Current Students Student Services Current Students Enrollment and Registration Campus Life and Student Services Student Organizations Student Services Majors and Minors Helpful Links Register Get Involved Student Services Career Services – this is the place for help with resumes, job interviews and everything related to pursuing your career dreams The Center for Writing and Communication – a combined writing and speaking center that offers free, one-on-one consultations with a trained staff Commencement / Graduation – all of the information about graduating – we are so proud of you! Counseling – need to talk to someone about concerns? We have trained psychologists and group meetings available to you at no charge Dining / Meal Plans – where to eat, how to pay for it, what is offered – we all have to eat! Disability Resources for Students – an office for students with any type of disability-related questions or issues Health - your health is important to your success and graduation – we have all sorts of free help for you Residence Life / Live On-Campus – students who live on campus succeed and graduate – take a look around Student Conduct – students must adhere to university policies – learn more about how it works Testing Center – Student testing, assessment, placement; credit by exam Tutoring / Educational Support Program (ESP) – free tutoring and assistance in most any subject Student Life Adult &amp; Commuter Students – resources and an office just for adult students and those who don’t live on campus Campus Recreation &amp; Intramurals – work out, go to a fitness class, join an intramural team – we’ve got it all Fraternities &amp; Sororities – here’s the information on fraternities and sororities on campus Leadership Programs – there are many ways to learn to become a leader and function as a leader Multicultural Affairs - an office for students who are interested in or a part of under-represented groups Student Activities Council – learn about all of the activities on campus and join the Council to plan the activities Student Government – learn about our Student Government, our Freshman Senate and how you can be a part of student initiatives Student Organizations – join one of our 250 organizations or form one of your own Veterans Resource Center – learn more about our home on campus for veterans Volunteer / Community Service – help others and get to know your fellow students Student Support &amp; Scholarship Programs Financial Aid –help and advice about loans, scholarships, grants and FAFSA First Scholars – learn more about this intrusive and supportive program for first generation students Emerging Leaders – our nationally acclaimed student leadership scholarship program Honors Program – join the Honors Program for special courses, incentives and community Scholarship Office – always be looking for scholarships Student Employment – information about jobs on campus Student Success Program (TRiO) – mentoring and support for first generation, low income and disabled students Campus Services Bills / Bursar – how do I know what I owe and where do I go to pay? Bookstore – all about books and Tiger gear and Starbucks! Bus / Blue Line Child Care – you can bring your child when you go to class for a very nominal charge Computer Labs – where you can go to use computers and print Copy Center Dining Dollars ID Cards – where do I go or what do I do if I lose my ID card? Parking – where can I park? How do I park in a gated lot? Post Office Tiger Funds – how do I add $ to my Tiger ID card to have money to spend on campus? Transcript – do you need a copy of your transcript for car insurance or other things? Current Students Enrollment and Registration Campus Life and Student Services Student Organizations Student Services Majors and Minors Helpful Links Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/5/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .