#http://www.memphis.edu/sociology/people/faculty_and_staff/martin-levin.php
Martin L. Levin - Sociology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Sociology About Us People Research Undergraduate Graduate Resources People Faculty Emeritus &amp; Emerita Faculty Advisors &amp; Instructors Staff Graduate Students Home Sociology People Martin L. Levin Martin L. Levin Professor Emeritus Phone (901) 678-2241 Email martin.levin@memphis.edu Fax (901) 678-2525 Office Clement Hall, Room 231B Office Hours Call for Hours CV Martin L. Levin is Professor of Sociology and Departmental Chair and Affiliate Faculty Member of the School of Public Health. He received his Ph.D. from The Johns Hopkins University in 1967. He served as principal investigator for such projects as Improving Instruction in the Fundamental Principles of Political Science and Sociology through Computational Laboratories, Adolescent Behavior and HIV Analysis, An Empirical Investigation in the Intellectual, Physical, Psychological and Social Consequences of Being Reared as an Only Child, The Consequences of Being Born to an Adolescent Mother and Sequelae of Marital Disruption on Children. Dr. Levin has received funding support from the National Science Foundation, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, NIH's National Institute for Child and Human Development (NICHD), NIH's National Institute for Mental Health (NIMH), the US Department of Health and Human Services, and the Exxon Educational Foundation, among others. He has received an NSF/NATO Senior Fellowship in science and has served on the Governing Council of the Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR). He is a member of the American Sociological Association, Southern Sociological Society, Population Association of America, and the Mid-South Sociological Association. He has served as the secretary-treasurer of the Southern Sociological Society, as a member of the American Sociological Association's Committee on Professional Ethics (COPE) and has been elected to the Phi Kappa Phi honor society and Sigma Xi, the honorary scientific research society. He also has served on the Mississippi State Health Department's Committee on HIV Prevention Evaluation. His publications include articles in the American Sociological Review, The Journal of Marriage and the Family, Public Opinion Quarterly, Social Science Research, Social Science Quarterly, The American Journal of Public Health, The Journal of Adolescent Health, Population Research and Policy Review , among others. In April of 2003, Dr. Levin was honored by the Southern Sociological Society by being given its first ever Distinguished Service Award for "significant professional contributions over a lifetime." In 2004, the Society renamed the Award in hornor of Dr. Levin and it is now known as the Martin L. Levin Distinguished Service Award. People Faculty Emeritus &amp; Emerita Faculty Advisors &amp; Instructors Staff Graduate Students Community Out of Chaos "portray the idea of chaos to community in Memphis." Online B.A. Want to pursue your college degree and manage your busy lifestyle? Experience online classes at the UofM. Contact Us Main Office Contacts and Location Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .