#https://umdrive.memphis.edu/ajhussey/www/Field_Ayangbayi.pdf
1 Household s ocioeconomic st atus and health: estimating the social gradient in child health in Nigeria . Revised Draft of a research paper proposed for Field Examination (Economics concentration, PhD in Business Administration) Toluwalope A. Ayangbayi 1 Department of Economics Fogelman College of Business and Economics University of Memphis, Memphis, TN Draft dated Oct. 14, 2014. 1 - in - under the guidance of Prof. A. Okunade. The author welcomes, with thanks in advance, additional comments from Economics faculty and my peers in the program. 2 Household s ocioeconomic st atus and health: estimating the social gradient in child health in Nigeria . A BSTRACT Studies estimat ing the effect s of socioeconomic factors on population health conditions have largely been conducted on the developed world with disproportionately fewer studies on the developing countries including especially , Africa n . Specifically, there are currently no studies on health status inequalities across socioecon omic bands focusing on Nigeria. This investigation , using the latest available pooled data f rom three waves (1999 - 2003, 2004 - 2008, and 2009 - 2013) of the National Dem ogr aphic and Health Survey s in Nigeria , estimate s econometric model s of the socioeconomic gradient in child health . Departing from the norm in most of the publications from high income countries based on subjective self - reported health status, we use objective measures of chil d health status used for growth monitoring in children , e.g., height - for - age ( HAZ ) , weight - for - age ( WAZ ) , and weight - for - height ( WHZ ) . Using these metrics reduce s en d o geneity due to measurement error in the dependent variable. The use of c hild health to proxy population health status also reduces endogeneity of wealth or income in a health production model . A third strategy for reducin g endogeneity is implicit in using wealth scores data partition ed into wealth quintiles (poorest, poorer, middle, richer and richest) and then estimating separate models for each quintile . Results based on the OLS regression estimation method reveal positive and s tatistically s ignificant effect s of maternal education i n the richest quintile for each of the three measures of child health. Paternal education is negative and significant in the WHZ model but positive and significant in the HAZ model only in the richest quintile. Third , depending on the model and wealth quintile, child (e.g., gender, age, and birth - weight) and environmental (e.g., rural residence, geopolitical zone of residence and household size) factors play important role s in child health production . Fourth, variations exist across the core drivers of child health dep ending on the measure. Finally, our s tudy findings could in form future policy interventions targeting improved health status of Nigerian children . JEL Code: I (Health, Education and Welfare) 3 Household s ocioeconomic st atus and health: estimating the social gradient in child health in Nigeria . 1. Introduction The need to understand the determinants of population health status has continued to motivate studies of the relationship between household socioeconomic status and health in countries a round the world. Th is relationship , known as the income gradient (Case et al , 2002; Kuehnle, 2014) or et al , 1978) in health , ha s usually been found to be a positive one ( that is, relative to those in the lower rungs of the socioec onomic ladder, wealthier segment of the population report s better health status, live longer and suffer less severe chronic ill - health ) . These studies (see, for example, Khanam, Nghiem and Connelly, 2009) have also usually explored channels through which t his relationship migh t occur in order to improve the understanding of this association. Socioeconomic status (SES) has been measured in the literature using household income, household expenditure, wealth, parental educational attainment, occupation of members (Shavers, 2007) , and maternal labo r force participation (Mugo, 2012) . Health status , on the other hand , has often been measured using variables ( e.g. , mortality, morbidity, self - reported health , risk factors ) or a more objective measure of healt h ( e.g. , examina tion by a trained physician, laboratory test , etc ) . A common p roblem faced in studying this topic is th e endogeneity of income as a determinant of adult health status . Endogeneity ca n result from measurement error , unobserved heterogeneity or reverse causality between health status and income. While income can determine health, it is also possible that family income may be determined by the health status of the brea d - winner or contributors to total household income . This is the case where health shocks limit productivity and income earning potential. To minimize this problem , previous authors have used child health status to proxy household health since child health is known to correlate well with adult health (Contoyannis & Dooley, 2010) . The idea being also that because children do not contribute to 4 family or household income it is unlikely that the health of a child will determine household income . A p rolonged illness period requiring intensive care may , howe ver , aff ect the parental abilities t o earn income s if they have to abandon their sources of income to seek health care for an ill child . This pose s a particular problem when household soc io economic status is measured using current income. Studying the health of children has also provided the opportunity to institute policy measures t economy as child health (health human capital) is a robust predictor of adult health and an indicator of th e future prosperity of the national economy (Khanan, Nghiem and Connelly, 2009) . Child hea lth measures in this study are based on anthropometr ic measures that are commonly employed for child growth monitoring . They are height - for - age (HFZ) , weight - for - height (WHZ) and weight - for - ag e (WAZ). These objective measures provide information on cumulative child health over varying lengths of time . U se of these measures is particularly important in the context of a developing country where collection of vital statistics may not be routine . Most of the published relevant studies p rovide information on the socioeconomic gradient especially in the countries of the OECD (Kuehnle , 2014) . A n information gap exists on the relationship for the developing countries ( Lavy et al , 1996 ; Shariff and Ahn, 1995) . Moreover, while t here are publications on various African countries, v ery little currently exists in economics on the association betwee n socioeconomic status and health in Nigeria. Major differences in s ocio - cultural and economic difference s between Nigeria and oth er African countries limit generalization of findings from other countries . Nigeria , a Federal Republic comprising thirty - six states and a centrally sited capital territory , is the most populous African country with a population of about 170 million people , and the larges t and fastest growing economy on the continent . Nigeria comprises six , internally homogeneous, geopolitical zones with mainly polit - 5 public mix in provisi on and financing . The public health system has three tier s (primary health care provided by the local government, secondary healthcare by the states , and tertiary health care provided by t he federal government) . Years of neglect of the health sector by vario us administrations in the post - independence era culminated in the significant deterioration of health care infrastructure and poor health indices including high infant and maternal mortalities, and low life expectancy of 47 years for ma les and 48years for female in 2000 . T he World Health Organisation (WHO) also ranked the overall performance of th among the 191member states of the organization (WHO, 2000) . The return to a democratic system of governance in 1999 placed health high on the policy agenda leading to sector - wide reforms inc luding healthcare financing (FMOH, 2004) . Improvements have been observed , for instance , in immunization rates and life expectancy at birth which increased from 46 years in 1999 to 52 years in 2012 . ross D omestic P roduct has gradually increased in the last ten years ( mostly from rising oil exportation revenue s ) , only a modest change in health expenditure has occurred 2 . Nigeria and other UN member countrie s in 2000 committed to the millennium development goals (MDGs) The goals are to: (1) eradicate extreme poverty and hunger; (2) achieve universal primary education; (3) promote gender inequality and women empowerment; (4) reduce infant mortality; (5) improve maternal health; (6) combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases; (7) ensure environmental sustainability; and (8) and promote global partnerships. Committing to the MDGs also increased the relat ive importance of health in the public policy agenda. Progressive monitoring reports on the MDGs how ever indicate that Nigeria and most African countries not meet ing the goals within the agreed time - frame . Our study i s , therefore important as it is expected to provide informed evidence for policy formulation especially in the post - MDG period. 2 World Bank data show that public health expenditure ranged from 1 - 2.4% of GDP from 2000 - 2013. This fraction may be lower following the recent rebasing of the GDP. 6 Partitioning our data by wealth quintile s in this study will facilitat e a better und erstanding of the determinants of health withi n different w ealth (asset or permanent income) quintiles . The objective of thi s paper is to estimate a socioeconomic model of health production in Nigeria thereby filling the available information gap. This paper also estimates the return to maternal reproductive experience (as far as we are aware, this is t effect in a model of health production). D ata are pooled from the National Demographic and Health S urveys (NDHS) which cover information over a period of fifteen years (1999 - 2003, 2004 - 2008, and 2009 - 2013) . To reduce endogeneity of the SES measures , we control for household wealth a priori using the portioned data to estimate a health production model within wealth quintiles. We estimate the causal effect of parental education on child health status w ithin each wealth quintile because education is known in the economic literature to correlate well with wealth and income. Our effort here is the first to employ this approach. Th e balance of this paper is organiz ed as follows. S ection 2 surveys literature on the ca usal impact of income on health; section 3 describes the analytical f ramework and empirical strategy; section 4 covers the data and describes the variables used in empiric al econometric modelling; section 5 presents the results; and section 6 concludes with implications of findings for policy. 2. L iterature review This paper l i e s within the br oad group of literature on the determinants of health in general and child health in particu lar. A subgroup to which this study is related, is examining the contribution of inputs to the production of child health . health capital model and Marmot et al (1978) observation of a social gradient in health, extensive effort s continue to go into studying the determin ants of health. The study goals have been to facilitate a better understanding of the determinants and suggesting policies for improving populati on health . Mosley & Chen (19 84), 7 for example, proposed an analytical framework comprising five categories of variables which directly affect child health and survival. T he y argued that these broad categories - maternal factors, environmental contamination, nutrient deficiency, injury and c ontrol of personal illness - act as intermediate or proximate variables through which other more distal factors act to a ffect child survival. S ocio economic determinants of health, g roup ed into three, namely, individual - level factors including parental productivity; household level variables such as wealth or income; and community level variables which reflect the ecology, and the political and health system s , fall within the distal group o f variables which affect health status . Studies of the relationship between socioeconomic status and health fall under two broad categories - macroec onomic and microeconomic . Macroeconomic studies employ aggregate national and/or sub - national level data to observe relationships between co nventional measures of economic output e.g . unemployment rate, GDP (e.g . , Anyanwu and Erhijakpor, 2007; Goryakin & Suhrcke, 2014; Ruhm, 2000, 2002, 2013), private and public health expenditure (e.g. , Chen, 2013), G ini coefficient and extreme poverty rate (e.g. Shavers 2007) , and aggregate measures of population health including mortality, morbidity and lifestyle/behavioural risk factors 3 . Although earlier studies show population health status is generally better dur ing period of economic decline (Ruhm, 2000) 4 , a recent study by Ruhm (2013) concluded that total mortality is no longer procyclical. While changes in the trend of effects on measures of population health were observed, the composition of mortality remained stable . Anyanwu and Erhijakpor (2007) found a positive and significant relationship between health expenditure and infant and under - 5 mortality in sub - Saharan Africa. While macro economic studies paint a broad picture for the entire population, it may be limited from a resource allocation view point especially when resources need to be targeted at 3 For instance alcohol consumption, physical exercise and smoking. 4 Suicide, physical activity and dietary intake were notable exceptions. See Ruhm 2000. 8 specific population sub - groups including children . Studies employing a ggregate data may also be flawed when the base over which aggregate data are computed is pro blematic . For instance, many developing countries do not have a population size large enough to compute aggregate population health statistics with a high degree of prec i sion (Mosley and Chen, 1984). Policy makers need information to aid decision - making fo r resource allocation and this necessitates the need for micro - level studies . Case et al (2002) study of the effect of family income on health in US A stimulated renewed interests in the use of household/individual level data in the estimation of the social gradient . The ir study employed data from three different su rvey sources (NHIS, PSID, and NHANES) which collect regular data on household income and health in the US. In all three , t hey consistently found a positive association between family income and reported child health status . They also found that the slope of the gradient became steeper with age before disappearing around age 65 years. Case et a l also reported that children from richer families fared better than children from poorer families when both suffer with a chronic illness. Chen , et al also reported a positive income - health gradient among children in USA using cross - sectional data from the NHIS 1994. Using global health measures, they did not find any age gradient. Currie and Stabile (2003) also found a positive social gradient in health in a cross - section of Canadian children with steepening of the gradi ent with age. Thi s finding counter ed the suggestion that the social gradient in health in the USA may be a consequence of lack of health insurance in low socioeconomic groups . Unlike Case et al , they d id not find any difference in the effect of long run sh ock on future health between children of different SES. Allin and Stabile (2012) found a similar result in Canadian children using a larger dataset and more recent data. They also concluded that access to health care does not explain the steepening of the income gradient. 9 In the U.K. , studies by Currie et al (2007), Propper et al (2007), Case et al (2008), Kruk (2012), Apouey and Geoffard (2013) and Kuehnle (2014) have estimated the causal relationship between family income and health and arriv ed at diff erent conclusions. Currie et al (2007) did not find an association between income and heal th or a steepening with age. In response, Case et al (2008) used additional years of data and found an inco me gradient in health which got steeper with age. Propper e t al (2007) found a positive association between family income and health in the UK but this effect could not be differentiated between permanent and current income . T he reported gradient disappears once they controlled for maternal mental health. Kruk (2012) and Apouey & Geoffard (2013) reported a positive gradient which emerges from the second year life and remain ed till late adolescence . Leveraging on the advantage conferred by the use of child health data , Kuehnle ( 2014 ) applied a n instrumental vari able approach to the estimation of the income gradient on different measures of child health in the UK . They found a very small but significant impact of family income on subjective child health and respiratory illnesses but found no effe ct on chronic heal th conditions . Khanam et al (2009) also found a positive gradient among Australian children . The effect increased with age but disappear ed when they control led for maternal health . A drawback common to these studies is in the measurement of health. All the se studies use d self - reported health as a measure of health status. This is not surprising as most of the studies had been trying to replicate the estimation strategy employed in Case (2002) for different countries. Self - reported health may be subject to r ecall bias if the survey questionnaire was administered to a person who has a suffered a health shock . Although the NHANES data used by Case et al (2002) study involved a physician i s and is only indicative of general health status. 10 Within a developing country context , Cameron and Williams (2005) , using panel survey data , reported a positive income gradient in Indonesian children. They di d not find a change in the slope at older ages suggesting a difference between children in developed and those in developing countries. Their measure of health status included subjectively reported health including from children between ages 11 - 14 while pa rent reported health was used for younger age groups. Although they conducted robustness checks, their check involved nurse assessed health status which would also vary between nurses and with nursing experience. On the African continent, Lavy et al (1996) studied the relationship between quality of health care, survival and health outcomes in Ghana estimating a health production function model. They found a positive relationship between height - for - age and availability of drugs and a sanitary environment. S hariff and Ahn (1995) analysed data on children 0 - 5years from a household DHS in Uganda in the late 1980s. Using two stage least squares approach, they estimated the casual effect of maternal education on anthropometric indices in children. They found a po sitive and significant relationship between maternal education and height - for - age while although positive the effect on weight - fo r - height was insignificant. They also found a greater effect among urban dwellers relative to rural dwellers. Mugo (2012) u tilizing household data from a Kenyan household survey stud ied the association between maternal labour force participation and anthropometric measurements in Kenyan children aged 0 - 5years. Mugo (2012) also employed instrumental variable estimation and repo rted a positive but insignificant effect of maternal labour force participation on indicators for stunting (HAZ) and underweight (WHZ) excluded children 6 months and below as their heig ht bute significantly to infant mortality and so leaving out children below the age of 6 months runs the risk of missing important information on health status of children in the first year of life. The WHO and CDC recommend measur ing the length of children below the age of 2 years while lying down . Although they recognis e the 11 convention i s to compare with the WHO (2006) standardized reference, they used measurements of the average Kenyan child as the reference for their study. Their instrumental variables w ere also weak even though relevant and valid . Some studies of income gradient in Africa focused on the effect on specific disease conditions. Forston (2008) studied the socioeconomic gradient in HIV/AIDS in five African countries using DHS 2003 data for Bu rkina Faso, Cameroon, Ghana, Kenya and Tanzania. They employed education and a measure of wealth which involved counting household assets as their measures of socioeconomic status. They reported positive education gradient s in all countries, whereas the wealth eff ect was sensi tive to the meas ure of wealth used . The extensive literature reviewed shows the existence of considerable interest in estimatin g the relationship between health and household socioeconomic status . Such studies also contend with the problem of endogeneity , especially due to error of measurement in the dependent variable. With this in mind, we propose limit ing the endogeneity problem by controlling for wealth a priori . 3. Theoretical model and empirical strategy In the spirit of Lavy et al (1996), we estimate a utility maximization model of family resource allocation decision with health status of members as an argument. The family derives utility from consumption of commodities and service s, leisure and the health status of members. The family derives utility from maximizing child health status (mea sured by anthropometry ) which serves as proxy for the health of the family in our model. C hild health production is thus modeled a s a function of inputs C , which includes individual child characteristics such as age, gender , birth interval and birth - weight; M and P , maternal and paternal characteristics respectively including maternal education, returns to maternal experience of birthing and pat ernal education; H , household characteristics including household siz e, wealth and 12 gender of household head ; and E , environmental characteristics such as rural or urban location, geopolitical zone of residence, access to health services . Environmental fact ors also includes factors in the environment which act directly on child health. Finally we include T , a time dummy which represents the state of being in a particular survey cohort . 3.1 Individual child characteristics Individual child characteristics including birth weight and birth interval are determinants of child malnutrition . gradually develop immunity and become less vulnerable to infections with age. Variation s in health status with age also reflect differences in age - specific care needs including diet. It is expected that health status shou ld improve with age in a child born without any health problem . Gender differences in child health status have also been ob served wit h female children healthier than males 5 . Perhaps this is a consequence of genetic variation or sex - bias ed care from parents and family members. The health of the baby in - utero also determines health in childhood. Depending on the healt h of the mother, a child acquires nutrients necessary for optimal growth at different ages from the mother. Intrauterine growth retardation and low birth weight may increase the risk of illnesses during childhood further delaying . T heory p redicts that a normal birth - weight is positively associated with good health status. Preceding or succeeding birth interval may also affect child health production. Giving birth to children in quick succession may deprive both living and unborn children of adequate care and nutrients. For a living child, a new conception or the arrival of another child reduces the level of care and nutrient the child gets from the parent and this adversely affect s For the unborn child, a pregnancy soon after a birth does not allow the mother to attain optimal 5 World Bank data indicate a con sistently higher infant mortality rate and prevalence of malnutrition in male than female children. 13 human physiologic levels of nutrients necessary for the optimal growth of the unborn child. Thus short birth intervals may adversely affect both production of child health and maternal health. 3.2 Parental characteristics Parental characteristics in our model include mater nal and paternal formal education and returns to returns to human capital accumulation and access to resources and wealth. The better educated the parents are, the better able they are at a cquiring knowledge useful for production of child h also correlates with wealth and access to health care resources . Parental education is associated with a rising opportunity cost of c hild care . The return to maternal human capital accumulation (or learning), i.e. , knowledge acquired by the mother by virtue of having given birth to and taken care of previous babies and children. This measure will be important in mothers who h ave had children in the past . Although in the cultural context of Nigeria, extended family members especially females assist in the care of children and so a first time mother may have some experience caring for children, our data set does not include this information and so we assume that only women who have had a child in the past has some experience in child care. 3.3 Household characteristics Household characteristics in our model are household size, gender of the head of the household and wealth. Increa sing wealth is known to be positively associated with better health and is the main theme of this paper. The gender of the household head may also matter for child health as this may capture the differential preferenc e for child health production between a household headed by a male and that headed by a female. Females are cul turally expected to have a higher preference for child care and be better at child health production. In Nigeria however , a female household head usually implies a single parent household and since women generally earn lower than men, a female headed household may be poorer and thus more likely to suffer poorer health than a male headed household. 14 The size of the household may also affect health status. Household size in Nigeria m ay be a reflection of wealth or cultural practices e.g. in polygamous families. Wealth (or resources) per capita decrease with increasing household size and thus a larger household size is expected to be negatively related to health status. 3.4 Environment al characteristics En vironmental characteristics includes factors related to the geopolitical area of residence as these are heterogeneous sub - divisions within the country. For instance the northern part of the country has poorer health and education indic es than the southern parts. Indices may vary within sub - regions but sub - regions are gener ally more homogeneous. The local area of residence is divided into rural or urban. Rural areas are known to have more poor people and less access to health care and ed ucational resources which are input s in the production of health. Although urban areas are expected to provide better health due to availability of pipe - borne water, better sanitation, access to specialist health care etc, factors in the urban cent ers, e.g ., noise and environmental pollution, and excessive heat due to radiation from built up places may adversely affect health . Environmental factors as defined in our model also includes a measure of access to health services so that the variable represen ting rural residence includes other factors apart from access to care. Although many people practice farming in the rural areas, poor knowledge of optimal diet and balanced nutrition may still adversely affect the health of the inhabitants of a rural locat ion. Thus residing in the northern part of the country or in a rural area is expected to be associ ated with poorer health status. 3.5 Time We also include time as factor in the product ion of health. This time is related to being in a particular survey coho rt. Being around at a particular time may lead to differences in health status perhaps due to difference in technological advances . Specifically, health is modelled according to the following equation : 15 Y it = 0 + 1 M it 2 P it 3 C it + 4 H it + 5 E it + 6 T t + it (1 ) Where Y i are the three separately modeled child health outcome s ( HAZ , WAZ, WHZ ) of the model it is the error s are parameters of the model . Our parameter s of interest are the effects of parental education and the return to maternal birthing experience conditional up on being in a particular wealth quintile of the population. Equation (1) is estimated using OLS regression of the relationship between parental education and child health status since our measures of health status have been normalized . We are int erested in both maternal and pat e r nal education since most homes in Nigeria have both parents (86% of our sample) and onl y about a tenth have a female head. The estimation is carried out sequentially starting with a pooling of the entire data and including dummies for wealth quintiles. Next , we partition the data and then estimate the model to observe the effect of household socioeconomic status within each wealth quintile 6 . Partitioning the data into quintiles help s to reduce e ndogeneity of wealth. Parental education is widely known to correlate highly with wealth and h as been used in the literature (see Shavers 2007 and Currie and Stabile 2003) as a measure of socioeconomic status. Parental education is also a less volatile and less vulnerable measure of SES unlike income or wealth. Moreover, it is unlikely that child health determine s parental education. Our measure s of child health status were obtained from the dataset and have been normalized thereby making OLS suitable for our estimation. The only remaining possible source of endogeneity could be any unobserved heterogeneity but b y following the determinant s of child survival approach we include as many control variables as possible to reduce unobserved heterogeneity. 6 We did not include an interaction of maternal and paternal education as this was not found to be statistically significant. 16 4. Data and variables The da ta are obtained from three editions of the National Demog raphic and Health Survey ( NDHS ) m easure . DHS/USAID has partnered with over 90 countries to conduct household surveys and disseminate data every five years since 1984 . N DHS are cross - sectional surveys which collect information on household background characteristics , family planning, reproductive history, maternal and child health, gender, HIV/AIDS, malaria, and nutrition. The data for the study were pool ed from surveys which took place in 2003, 2008 and 2013 and provide information over a 15 year period from 1999 - 2013 . These surveys contain information on all individuals who usually live in or spent the previous night in a household before a survey was administered. The data are obtained from a nationally representative sample of households across the country . Households are selected via a st ratified two - stage cluster sampling procedure which initially samples clusters with a probability from the list of all enumeration areas developed for a previous population census in the country. Households within each cluster are then chosen by systematic random sampling and all females aged 15 - 49 y ears in the household are interviewed . The survey data is re coded to facilitate analysis and we hav e used the ( KR) from each of the three wave s for this study . The children recode dataset has information on all children born during the five year period pr eceding a survey. DHS - 2003 has 6029 observations; DHS - 2008, 28, 647; and DHS - 2013 has 31,482 observations making a total of 66,158 observations . 49% of the children in our data pool are f emales, the average age was 1.9 years and 86% liv ed with their parents. The average height - for - age ( HAZ ) is - 1.3 s d of the WHO mean in the reference , average weight - for - age ( WAZ ) is - 1.2 sd of the WHO reference and weight - for - height - 0.52 sd from the mean value of the WHO reference child. About 47% of the sample population are within the poor bracket while the richest children in our sample accounted for about 15% of the sample population. 17 4.1 Dependent Variables: The effect of household income on health status is estimated using measures of health which repres ent varying degrees of severity and chronicity of child health status . Child health status : Three measures of child health status are used in the analysis. These are length/height - for - age (HAZ) (supine length below the age of 2 years), weight - for - age (WAZ) and weight - for - height (WHZ) . These measures are recorded as z - scores or standard deviations and are continuous variables which by age and gender with the WHO reference grow th curves (2006) of height - for - age ( HAZ ) , weight - for - age ( WAZ ) and weight - for - height ( WHZ ) . Each is a measure of cumulative health reflecting different lengths of time . Height - for - age measures the degree of linear growth delay or stunting and is an indication of cumulative growth delays (due to malnutrition and poor health) over the long term. WHO definition o f stunting is HAZ less than - 2 sd from the me an of WHO reference. Weight - for - height ( WH Z ) measure delays in body mass or wasting due to malnutrition or poor health. It is a measure of acute health shocks or health over a short run. Weight - for - age is a combination of the previous two and measures the degree of underweight by age. WA Z (underwei ght) represent values below - 2 sd f rom the appropriate reference values (Blossner and de Onis, 2005) . The WHO reference child was derived from the multicentre gr owth reference study (MGRS). The study us ed primary growth data from 8500 children from widely different ethnic backgrounds and cultural settings in countries including Brazil, Ghana, India, Norway, Oman and the USA. Although usually inferred in the literature as evidence of malnutrition, Mosley and Chen (1984) argue that these are measures of overal l health status since growth delays in children may be 18 due to a multiplicity of factors including diet and nutrition . T hey argued that growth delays occur on a spectrum which include s stunting, wasting and underweight and which has death as its worst case. Stunting is an indicator of cumulative heal th shocks over the long run , wasting is evidence of an acute illness while u nderweight combines wasting and stunting. These measures are considered mo re objective and appropriate measures than self - reported health or physical examination by a physician. 4.2 Independent Variables: Socioeconomic status : Our main measure of household socioeconomic status is parental education since we already control for wealth by partitioning our data according to wealth quintile. Parental education has been used in the literature (Currie and Stabile, 2003; Forston, 2008) as it correlates well with household income or wealth. Both maternal and paternal education in years correlate well with the measure of household wealth included in the dataset. Parental education is also less vulnerable to health shocks unlike inco me or wealth which may be depleted to defray the cost of accessing health care. Income may also be difficult to measure in a developing country context like Nigeria where individuals in households may have mu ltiple sources of income and c ulturally, people are also averse to divulg ing information on income (more so to strangers i.e. survey personnel). Household income figures in surveys may also be inaccurate as in dividuals in the household may not all contribute to household wealth (Rutstein et al , 2004). P arental education is also less vulnerable to endogeneity due to reverse 19 Table 1: Summary Statistics: Mean (SD) Variable Pooled Poorest Poorer Middle Richer Richest Child factors child_fem 0 .49 (0 . 5) 0 .49 (0 . 5) 0 .49 (0 . 5) 0 . 5 (0 . 5) 0 .49 (0 . 5) 0 .49 (0 . 5) child_age 1.9 3 ( 1.4 3) 1.9 3 ( 1.43 ) 1.9 2 ( 1.43 ) 1.9 4 ( 1.4 3) 1.93 ( 1.43 ) 1.9 2 ( 1.4 2) multi_birth 0.04 (0 .18 ) 0 .0 3 (0 .17 ) 0 .04 (0 .18 ) 0 .0 4 (0 .19 ) 0 .0 4 (0 .19 ) 0 .0 4 (0 .19 ) child_wthp~t 0 .86 (0 .34 ) 0 .84 (0 .36 ) 0 .84 (0 .3 7) 0 .86 (0.35) 0 .88 (0 .3 3) 0 .9 2 (0 .2 8) birthwgt 3.1 2 (0 .53 ) 2.97 (0 .5 7) 3.00 (0 .5 7) 3.05 (0 .53 ) 3 .0 9 (0 .5 3) 3.17 (0 .52 ) birth_int 36.15 (20.29) 34.81 (17.61) 34.93 (18.54) 36.79 (20.95) 37.14 ( 21.33 ) 38.67 (24.82) Parental factors mum_age 29.33 ( 7.0 3) 29.12 ( 7.51 ) 28.94 ( 7.3 ) 29.1 4 ( 7.08 ) 29.4 1 ( 6.7 2) 30.44 ( 5.83 ) educ_yrs 4.5 1 ( 5.11 ) 1.08 ( 2.5 3) 2.27 ( 3.5 6) 4.4 1 ( 4.51 ) 7.05 ( 4.77 ) 10.83 (4.13) parity 4.3 9 ( 2.63 ) 4.93 ( 2.8 4) 4.7 1 ( 2.7 3) 4.4 1 ( 2.58 ) 4.0 3 ( 2.44 ) 3.3 9 ( 1.9 8) bexp 9.0 3 ( 6.68 ) 10.17 ( 6.9 7) 9.61 ( 6.7 4) 9.1 8 ( 6.67 ) 8.33 ( 6.4 7) 6.81 ( 5.65 ) part_inhse 0 .86 (0.35) 0 .9 1 (0 .2 9) 0 .8 7 (0 .3 4) 0 .8 2 (0 .39 ) 0 .83 (0 .37 ) 0 .8 7 (0 .34 ) prt_age 40.5 2 ( 11.81 ) 40.8 2 ( 12.3 5) 4 0.93 ( 12.5 3) 40.71 ( 12.22 ) 40.15 ( 11.2 2) 39.5 4 ( 9.62 ) prteduc_yrs 6.02 ( 5.7 5) 1.9 4 ( 3.6 6) 3.8 2 ( 4.7 5) 6.5 4 ( 5.3 6) 9 .1 ( 4.92 ) 12.04 ( 3.9 4) Household factors hh_n 7.0 7 ( 3.6 2) 7.33 ( 3.3 ) 7.41 ( 3.6 8) 7.2 1 ( 3.7 6) 6.90 ( 3.8 4) 6.0 8 ( 3.3 6) u5hh_n 2.19 ( 1.24 ) 2.29 ( 1.2 4) 2.33 ( 1. 3) 2.1 9 ( 1.25 ) 2.1 1 ( 1.2 4) 1.92 ( 1.05 ) hhd_fem 0 . 1 (0 . 3) 0 .05 (0 .2 2) 0 .09 (0.2 9 ) 0 .14 (0 .3 5) 0 .13 (0 .3 4) 0 .1 1 (0 .31 ) Environmental factors R ural 0.7 (0 .5 ) 0 .95 (0 .2 2) 0. 9 (0 .3 ) 0 .72 (0 .4 5) 0 .46 (0 . 5) 0 . 2 (0 . 4) dist1 0 .6 5 (0 .4 8) 0 .45 (0 . 5) 0 .58 (0 .49 ) 0 .69 (0 .46 ) 0 . 7 9 (0 .41 ) 0 .8 7 (0 .3 4) region 3.1 6 (1.63) 2.6 5 ( 1.18 ) 2.81 ( 1.38 ) 3.03 ( 1.6 3) 3.64 (1.76) 4.16 ( 1.8 4) Anthropometri c measures haz_sd - 1.3 1 ( 1.9 3) - 1.87 ( 1.99 ) - 1.62 ( 1.94 ) - 1.3 ( 1.8 9) - 0 .96 ( 1.74 ) - 0 . 5 ( 1.7 1) waz_sd - 1.2 3 ( 1.4 5) - 1.63 ( 1.45 ) - 1.4 5 ( 1.4 4) - 1.18 ( 1.43 ) - 1.00 ( 1.3 5) - 0 .68 ( 1.35 ) whz_sd - 0 .52 ( 1. 4) - 0 .6 2 ( 1.4 8) - 0 .56 ( 1.43 ) - 0 .47 ( 1.37 ) - 0 .49 ( 1.33 ) - 0 .4 3 ( 1.3 3) 20 A wealth index score is included in the survey dataset , th e score is computed from household durable assets by a process of principal component analysis recom mended by Filmer & Pritchett (2001) 7 and is used for grouping the survey population into wealth quintiles which we used to partition our data . Control variables : The control variable s are wealth quintile and a set of variables which control f or maternal, paternal, child, environmental ( household and locatio n) charac t eristics and time . Some of these are proximate factors while other s are distal and act through the proximate determinants of child health. One of the c ontrols for matern al factor is a variable ( bexp ) which measures return to maternal experience in taking care of children . This measure is constructed from the difference in maternal age at first and last births or between maternal age at first and current age if pregnant during the survey period. Parental employment is not included as this also cor relates well with educational attainment. As far as we are aware, ours is the first study to consider the effect of returns to maternal birthing experience. Environmental controls include the type of place of residence and region of residence . We use these to measure environmental influence which apart from region and local residence include s the availability of skilled health care services. T he NDHS groups type of place of residence into rural or urban using a cut - off of 20,000 population. If greater than 20,000, it is classified as urban while less than 20,000 is rural. The region of residence refers to the geopolitical zone of the country where the household resides. The descriptive sta tistics is presented in table 1 above. Prior to econometric esti mation, we re - coded all extreme values, unreasonable values and missing data codes to a value understood by the software rather than delete an entire record due to 7 Detailed information on construction of wealth index is provided by Rutstein, S.O. et al , (2004). The DHS Wealth Index downloaded from the DHS web. See also National Population Commission (NPC) [Nigeria] and ICF International. 2014. Nigeria Demographic and Health Survey 2013. Abuja, Nigeria, and Rockville, Maryland, USA: NPC and ICF International. 21 lack of observation for a single variable. For instance , we limited the maximum value of bir th - weight to 4kg as some of the values in the original dataset were not reasonable 8 . The average birth - weight in our sample is 3.11kg which is comparable with figures in the published literature for Nigerian children (e.g. Mutihir and Pam, 2006 ; Swende, 2011 ) . Also in constructing our measure of maternal experience, we limited the lowest value to zero. We did this to remove negative values obtained due to approximation during the process of data entry in original dataset . 5. Discussion of r esults 1. Effect of family socioeconomic status on height - for - age ( stunting ) The effect of maternal education on child health is positive and statistically significant in the pooled sample and in the poorer and richest quintiles where increasing the number of years of matern al education by 1% increases height - for - age by 0.002, 0.008 and 0.003 sd respectively. In the pooled sample however being in the poorer quintile has a negative effect on long term health relative to being in the richest quintile . Paternal education a lso has statistically significant effects in the pooled sample (0.2) and with greater effect in the richest quintile (0.36). A negative effect of returns to of this within the quintiles. Child - w eight has positive and significant effec ts in the pooled sample but the effect is negative (0.92) in the poorer quintile. The gradient however becomes positive (1.00) in the middle quintile but then flattens slightly in the richest quintile (0.76). Birth interval, gender and age also have positive and significant effects on stunting in the pooled sample and have significant and positive gradient in the wealthier quintiles. The results are presented in table 3 in the appendix. 8 Prior to this, maximum value of birth - weight was 8.8kg. 22 Residing in a rural location has negative effect on stunting in the pooled sample and within the richest quintil e. A rural location however reduces stunting in the poorest quintile. Environmental factors including household size, gender of household head and access to health care serv ices in the model did not have statistically significant effects on long run health status. Relative to living in the SW zone, residing in the NE and NW worsen stunting in the pooled sample and in the wealthiest quintile. The effect of living in the NW also has negative impact on stunting in the middle and richer quintiles. Residing in the SE and SS have greater effects of reducing stunting relative to living in the SW. These effects are positive across quintiles but the gradient gets flatter with increasing wealth. The effect of wealth in the pooled sample shows a steepening of the income gradient relative to the richest quintile as wealth increases. Relative to 2003, being in the 2008 coho rt is associated with worsening of stunting whereas a reduction of stunting occurs in 2013. A negative effect of being in the 2008 cohort is also seen in the richer quintile while the wealthiest children in 2013 have lower stunting. 2. Effect of family socioeconomic status on weight - for - age (underweight) Table 4 in the appendix shows the results of our model with weight - for - age as the dependent va riable . In the pooled model, maternal education has a positive effect on weight - for - age. The gradient is negative in the poorest quintile but positive in the richer and richest quintiles, increasing with wealth. There is no effect of paternal education but the returns to maternal experience is negative in the wealthiest quintile ( - 0.15). The effect of birth - weigh t is positive in the pooled model and in the middle (1.03), richer (0.83) and richest quintiles (0.9). Increasing birth interval reduces wasting in the general model (0.005) and in the middle and richest quintiles (0.006). Underweight is lower i n female children in the pooled model but this is not observed in the quintiles. Increasing a ge is also associated with reduction in underweight in the middle (0.212), richer (0.363) and richest (0.205) quintiles. 23 Household size has a positive effect on wa sting in the pooled model (0.143) and in the richest quintile (0.186). Residence in the NC, SE and SS zone of the country have positive effects on weight - for - age relative to residing in the SW. The effects are mostly observed in the richer quintiles althou gh residence on the SE has a positive effect in the poorest quintile while residence in the SS has a positive effect in the poorer quintile. The NE and NW generally have a lower effect relative to the SW. The effects are also predominantly in the wealthies t quinti les. The poo l ed model also shows a similar pattern with the wealth dummies. As wealth increases relative to the wealthiest quintile, the effect of wealth on weight - for - age increases. 3. Effect of family socioeconomic status on weight - for - height (wast ing) Table 5, also in the a ppendix summarize s the result s of our estimation with the pooled sample and within the quintiles. Maternal education has a positive effect on stunting in the pooled sample (0.15) and also in the richest quintile (0.27). Paternal education has a negative effect which is statistically significant in the pooled model and in the wealthiest quintile. The returns to maternal birthing experience also has a negative ef fect in the wealthiest quintile only. Increasing birth - weight and birt h interval also have positive effects and reduce d wasting in the wealthiest quintile. The age of the child also has a positive effect in this quintile. Living in th e NC geopolitical zone has positive effect , relative to the SW , while a NW zone residence is associated with a lower effect in the pooled sample and in the wealthiest quintile. The time dummies have a reversed effect compared with the effect on stunting. Being in the 2008 cohort reduces wasting while being in the 2013 cohort is negatively associated with weight - for - height. E ffect of socioeconomic status on height - for - age 24 The pooled sample and the wealthiest quintile in the partitioned model showed positive effects of maternal and paternal education with paternal education having a larger effect in both instances. This may be explained by the male dominated culture in Nigeria where the male parent is usually the head of the family and provides resources for the family. As seen in descriptive summary the fathers in the wealthiest quintile a re generally the most educated in the population and through their education are able to access resources which act as inputs in child health production. Maternal education is also significant and this may reflect the ability to complement the efforts of t he male partner in gaining access to resources which improve health. This effect may also r eflect the increased ability to acquire information which she applies in child care. Maternal education however has its largest effect in the poorer wealth quintile perhaps implying that great effects can be obtained by intervening in children in this group who are generally not as poor in health as children born to the poorest families. The effect of the returns to maternal experience is negative in the pooled sample model. This negative return to experience may reflect the presence of an implicit threshold after which maternal experience reverts to experience at firs t pregnancy. This may be the cas e w hen longer birth intervals lead to long periods of maternal birthin g experience. Child factors behave as predicted with generally positive effects especially in the wealthier quintiles. There is however an implausible negative effect of birth - weight on height - for - age in the poorer quintile which may just be an artifact . The effect of rural residence is positive in the poorest quintile but neg ative in the richest quintile. Although generally unexpected, this result could due to the definition of rural in the survey. Or p erhaps , a child born to the richest quintile family i s exposed to factors which might be detrimental to health production for instance noise and environmental d a day - care centre si nce parents have to go to work. E ffect of socioeconomic status on underweight 25 Maternal education has a positive effect on underweight in the richer and richest quintiles but a negative effect in the poorest quintile. The positive effe acquire knowledge and use this as inputs in child health production. The effect in the poorest quintile however may be due to the effect of environmental factors for instance residence in a rural area where most of the poor people are known to reside. Materna l returns to experience also has a negative effect on underweight in the wealthiest quintile. A possible reason for this may be that mothers in this quintile are employed in time consuming and well paid jobs. In addition these mothers may a lso reside in an urban area and encounter heavy traffic commuting to and from work . These factors increase the opportunity cost of child care and most mothers therefore entrust the care of their child to a maid who is usually po orly educated and may not have knowledge of proper child care practices. The cumulative effect of this is The negative effects relative to the SW observed in the NW and NE zones o f Nigeria probably reflect s a perennial problem of maladministration in the northern part of the country where the standard of education is generally poorer than the rest of the country. The zones also have poorer health indices than the rest of the countr y due to poor education and sometimes resistance to western medicine e.g. immunization programs . These zones are also homes to cattle herdsmen who travel miles on foot with their families while tending their cattle. The nature of this occupation reduces th e opportunity for formal education and access to health care services. E ffect of socioeconomic status on weight - for - height ability to use acquired knowledge as in put in child health production. Paternal education however has a negative effect on child health in the wealthiest quintile. Weight - for - height measures health in the short run and thus the negative effect of paternal education may reflect higher opportunit y cost of 26 paternal time. As the main source of inputs , the highly educated and gainfully employed father probably spends more time out of the house looking for resources to provide for the family. Child factors - birth - weight, birth interval and age have positive effects on the child health status in the short run, perhaps reflecting the additive effects of optimal prenatal health, adequate care following adequately spaced births and optimal child care as the child grows. The only environmental factor with effect on child health is region of residence. The NC relative to the SW has a pos itive effect while the NW has a negative effect. The greater effect of the NC reflects the heterogeneity of the geopolitical zones in the northern region of the country. The NC zone is closer to the southern part of the country and positive effects may be due to heterogene ity and spillovers from neighbo ring regions. 27 6. Conclusion Understanding the causal effect of socioeconomic status (SES) on health status remains an active and interesting area of research in all countries. This is important to provide informed evidence to guide resource allocation policies. Most of the published studies on the social gradient in health have been conducted in developed countries with o nly a few from develo ping countries of Africa and little or no information on the income gradient in Nigeria . This study fills this information gap by analyzing household data from National Demographic and Health Surveys 2003, 2008 and 2013. We estimated a child health production model using a pooled sample and then partitioning the data according to wealth quintiles. We consistently found a positive effect of maternal education on health in the wealthiest quintile of the population in our sample. Paternal education had a positive effect on long term health in the wealthiest quintile but a negative effect on wasting in the same quintile. Our measure of returns to mate rnal experience of birthing had negative effects on health in the short term in the wealthi est quintile but had no significant effect on long term health. Individual child factors are found to have positive effects on health status. Residence in the NC region has a positive effect on health relative to the SW while residence in the NW and NE reg ions have negative effects relative to the SW. Our findings reflect the existence of a social gradient in health in Nigeria. With the country unable to meet the MDGs by 2015, our findings imply that to achieve improvements in population health, resources s hould be all ocated to intervention program s including improvement in maternal education, and pregnancy and newborn care especially in the NC and NW regions of the country. 28 References Allin , S. & Stabile , M., (2012). Socioeconomic status and chi ld health: what is the role of health care, health con ditions, injuries and maternal health? Health Economics, Policy and Law , April 2012. Anyanwu, J . C. & Erhijakpor, A., (2007). Health Expenditures and Health Outcomes in Africa. African Development Bank W orking Paper , 2007 . Biggs B et al . 2007. Is wealthier always healthier? The impact of national income level, inequality, and poverty on public health in Latin America. Science and Medicine , August 2007 . Blssner, M. and de Onis, M., 2005. Malnutrition: quantifying the health impact at national and local levels. Geneva, WHO Environmental Burden of Disease Series . Wo rld Health Organization, 2005. Cameron, L. and Williams, J., 2009. Is the relationship between health and socioeconomic status stronger for older children in developing countries? Demography , May 2009 . Case, A., Lubotsky, D., and Paxson , C., 2002. Economic status and health in childhood: the origins of the gradient. American Economic Review , Dec 2002 . Case, A., Lee, D. & Paxson, C., 2008. The i ncome gradient in children's health: A comment on Currie, Shields and Wheatley Price . Journal of Healt h Economics, May 2008. Chen, E., Martin, A.D., Matthews, K.A., 2006. Socioeconomic status and health: Do gradients differ within childhood and adolescence? Social Science and Medicine , 2006. Chen G ., et al . Cyclical behaviour of public and private health expenditure in China. Health Economics , July 2013 . Contoyannis, P. & Dooley, M., 2010. The role of child health and economic status in educational, health, and labour market outcomes in young adulthood. Canad ian Journal of Economics/Revue C anadienne d'conomique , February/ Fevrier 2010 . Currie, A., Shields, M.A. & Price , S.W., 2007. The child health/family income gradient: Evidence from England . Journal of Health Economics, March 2007. Currie, J. & Stabile, M., 2003. Socioeconomic Status and Child Health: Why Is the Relationship Stronger for Older Children? The American Economic Review , December 2003. Filmer , D. & L. Pritchett, 2001. Estimating wealth effects without expenditure data or tears: An ap plication to educational enrollments in states of India. Demography , 2001 FMOH, 2004 . Health Sector Reform Programme: Strategic Thrus ts with a Logical Framework and P lans of Action, 2004 - 2007. Federal Ministry of Health , Abuja , 2004. Forston, J.G., 2008. The gradient in sub - Saharan Africa: socioeconomic stat us and HIV/AIDS. Demography , May 2008. Goryakin, Y., and Suhrcke, M., 2014. Economic development, urbanization, technological change and overweight: What do we learn from 244 Demographic and Health Surveys? Econ omics Hum an Biol ogy , 2014 . 29 Grossman, M., 1972. On the Concept of Health Capital and the Demand for Health . Journal of Political Economy , Mar. - Apr., 1972 . Khanam, R ., Nghiem, H.S., and Connelly, L.B., 2009. Child health and the income gradient: Evidence from Australia. Journal of Health Economics , July 2009. Kuehnle, D. , 2014. The causal effect of family income on child health in the UK. Journal of Health Economics , 2014. Lavy, V., Strau ss, J. & Thomas, D. et al, (1996 ). Quality of health care, survival and health outcomes in Ghana. Journal of Health E conomics , 1996 . Marmo t, M.G., Rose, G., Shipley, M., Hamilton, P.J.S., 1978. Employment grade and coronary heart disease in British civil servants. Journal of Epidemi ology and Community Health , 1978. Mosley, W. H. & Chen, L. C., 1984. An analytical framework for the study of child survival in developing countries. Population and Develo pment Review , 1984. Mugo, M.G., 2012. Impact of parental socioeconomic status on child health outcomes in Kenya. African Development Revie w , 2012. Mutihir , J . T . and Pam , S . D. , 2006. Anthropometric and other assessment indices of the newborn in Jos, Nigeria. Ann als of Af rican Medicine , 2006. National Population Commission (NPC) [Nigeria] and ICF International. 2014. Nigeria Demographic and Health Survey 2013. Abuja, Nigeria, and Rockville, Maryland, USA: NPC and ICF International. Propper, C., Rigg, J., and Burgess, S., 2007 . Health Economics , 2007 . Ruhm C. 2000. Are recessions good for your health? Quarterly Journal of Economics, May 2000 . Ruhm C . , and Black W. , 2002. Does drinking really decrease in bad times? Journal of Health Economics , July 2002 . Ruhm C. 2000. Healthy living in hard times. Journal of Health Economics, March 2005 . Rutstein, S.O. and Jonhson, K., 2 004 , DHS Wealth Index . DHS Comparative Reports , Calverton, Maryland: OCR Macro. Shariff, A. & child anthropometry in Uganda. Indian E conomic Review , 1995. Shavers, V.L., 2007. Measurement of socioeconomic status in health disparities research. Journal of the Natio nal Medical Association , vol. 99, No. 9, September 2007 . Swende T. Z. , 2011. Term birth - weight and sex ratio of offspring of a Nigerian obstetric population . International Journal of Biological and Medical Research , 2011. W.H.O., 2000. Health systems : improving performance. The World Health Report: 2000 . Geneva, World Health Organization WHO Multicentre Growth Reference Study Group , (2006) . WHO Child Growth Standards: Length/height - for - age, weight - for - age, weight - for - length, weight - for - height and body mass index - for - age: Methods and development. Geneva: World Heal th Organization, 2006 . 30 Table 2: Definition of variables Variable Definition Child factor s child_fem Child is female (1=yes) child_age multi_birth Child is multiple birth (1=yes) child_wthparent Child residing with parents (1=yes) birthwgt Birth - weight birth_int Preceding birth interval (months) Maternal factor mum_age educ_yrs Maternal education in years parity Number of births mum has ever had bexp Length of time from first to most recent birth or current pregnancy Paternal factors prt_age Paternal age prteduc_yrs Paternal education in years prt_inhse Partner lives in the house (1=yes) Environmental/household factors hh_n Number in household u5hh_n Number of under - 5 children in the household hhd_fem Female headed household (1=yes) rural Household lives in rural location (1=yes) Dependent variable haz _sd Height - for - age (z - scores) waz _sd Weight - for - age (z - scores) whz _sd Weight - for - height (z - scores) 31 Table 3: Height - for - age model all poorest poorer middle richer richest Parental leduc_yrs 0.19** - 2.27 0.8 2 ** - 0.17 0.1 1 0 .31 ** factors (0.08) ( 1.62 ) (0.3 9) (0.19) (0.13) (0.14) lbexp - 0.13 ** - 0.66 - 0.35 - 0.1 6 - 0.07 - 0.08 (0.0 6 ) (1.6 5 ) (0.29) (0.1 8 ) (0.10) (0.0 8 ) lprteduc_yrs 0.20** 1.75 - 0.20 0.25 0.0 2 0.356*** (0.080) (1.288) (0.310) (0.203) (0.129) (0.131) Child factors lbirthwgt 0.556*** - 0.487 - 0.923* 1.005** 0.138 0.763*** (0.163) (1.689) (0.498) (0.484) (0.290) (0.224) birth_int 0.008*** 0.034 0.012 0.013*** 0.006** 0.007*** (0.001) (0.048) (0.008) (0.004) (0.002) (0.002) child_fem 0.172*** 0.216 0.081 0.202 0.203** 0.143** (0.054) (0.996) (0.260) (0.171) (0.098) (0.071) lchild_age 0.120** - 0.041 - 0.031 0.142 0.088 0.128* (0.051) (0.905) (0.244) (0.156) (0.089) (0.070) Environmental lhh_n 0.167* 0.621 0.068 0.149 - 0.045 0.201 factors (0.096) (3.818) (0.486) (0.355) (0.156) (0.130) hhd_fem - 0.03 - 1.27 0.18 - 0.15 - 0.03 - 0.03 (0.08) (1.80) (0.39) (0.21) (0.14) (0.12) rural - 0.116* 4.758** - 0.426 - 0.078 - 0.016 - 0.196* (0.065) (1.900) (0.363) (0.180) (0.102) (0.105) dist1 - 0.040 - 1.335 0.171 0.075 0.012 - 0.098 (0.073) (1.055) (0.326) (0.207) (0.116) (0.112) nrthcntrl 0.135 1.946 - 0.070 0.010 0.151 0.149 (0.082) (1.486) (0.583) (0.291) (0.177) (0.099) nrthest - 0.258* 1.364 0.291 0.413 0.098 - 0.658*** (0.133) (2.593) (0.564) (0.458) (0.250) (0.176) nrthwest - 0.829*** 0.000 0.498 - 1.232** - 1.428*** - 0.579*** (0.156) (.) (0.637) (0.496) (0.278) (0.202) sthest 0.530*** 9.133*** 0.833** 0.578** 0.785*** 0.399*** (0.073) (2.501) (0.415) (0.242) (0.127) (0.103) sthsth 0.342*** 2.712 1.680** 0.425 0.422*** 0.250** (0.084) (1.813) (0.646) (0.306) (0.152) (0.110) Wealth poorest - 0.121 quintile (0.371) poorer - 0.512*** (0.156) middle - 0.340*** (0.105) richer - 0.306*** (0.068) Time dummies y08_dum - 0.156* 2.149 0.047 - 0.153 - 0.418*** - 0.106 (0.092) (1.446) (0.550) (0.332) (0.158) (0.119) y13_dum 0.158* - 0.663 - 0.250 - 0.022 0.008 0.240** (0.088) (1.947) (0.435) (0.317) (0.149) (0.114) R 2 0.088 0.797 0.179 0.096 0.117 0.069 F S tatistic 14.63 0 2.05 2.61 7.01 7.80 Sample size 3629 25 141 414 1007 2042 * p<0.10, **p<0.05, * **p<0.01 32 Table 4: Weight - for - age model all poorest poorer middle richer richest Parental leduc_yrs 0.221*** - 2.197** 0.290 - 0.036 0.160* 0.394*** factors (0.062) (0.858) (0.267) (0.135) (0.096) (0.107) L bexp - 0.091** - 1.587 0.034 0.050 0.004 - 0.150*** (0.041) (1.890) (0.237) (0.120) (0.070) (0.058) lprteduc_yrs 0.014 1.341 - 0.166 0.017 0.001 - 0.008 (0.059) (0.828) (0.220) (0.149) (0.097) (0.095) Child factors lbirthwgt 0.802*** 1.037 - 0.618 1.034*** 0.830*** 0.904*** (0.122) (1.842) (0.406) (0.347) (0.222) (0.162) birth_int 0.005*** 0.022 0.009 0.006** 0.001 0.006*** (0.001) (0.050) (0.007) (0.003) (0.002) (0.001) child_fem 0.070* - 0.311 - 0.071 0.190 0.023 0.065 (0.040) (1.144) (0.183) (0.122) (0.069) (0.054) lchild_age 0.243*** 0.783 0.063 0.212* 0.363*** 0.205*** (0.039) (0.785) (0.205) (0.117) (0.065) (0.054) Environme ntal lhh_n 0.143** - 0.401 0.435 - 0.016 0.063 0.186** factors (0.068) (3.335) (0.385) (0.223) (0.120) (0.092) hhd_fem - 0.074 - 1.780 - 0.094 - 0.074 - 0.123 - 0.030 (0.057) (2.009) (0.276) (0.152) (0.096) (0.086) R ural - 0.018 2.772 - 0.217 - 0.009 0.083 - 0.101 (0.046) (1.959) (0.259) (0.128) (0.073) (0.073) dist1 0.022 - 1.179 - 0.024 - 0.050 0.076 - 0.006 (0.055) (1.489) (0.216) (0.158) (0.089) (0.082) nrthcntrl 0.195*** 2.343 - 0.107 0.114 0.134 0.226*** (0.065) (1.969) (0.509) (0.200) (0.118) (0.084) nrthest - 0.113 3.330 0.115 0.151 0.048 - 0.406*** (0.094) (3.030) (0.327) (0.298) (0.180) (0.122) nrthwest - 1.006*** 0.000 - 0.399 - 0.833*** - 1.156*** - 1.006*** (0.111) (.) (0.359) (0.297) (0.183) (0.162) S thest 0.287*** 7.004* 0.242 0.126 0.355*** 0.264*** (0.055) (3.645) (0.291) (0.169) (0.099) (0.078) S thsth 0.193*** 0.324 1.082*** 0.112 0.079 0.224*** (0.061) (2.062) (0.412) (0.243) (0.104) (0.081) Wealth poorest 0.251 Quintil e (0.347) P oorer - 0.329*** (0.109) M iddle - 0.199*** (0.075) R icher - 0.166*** (0.049) Time y08_dum 0.092 1.621 0.339 - 0.147 - 0.051 0.068 dummies (0.073) (1.278) (0.406) (0.209) (0.160) (0.092) y13_dum - 0.050 - 1.268 - 0.153 - 0.083 - 0.227 - 0.041 (0.071) (2.230) (0.359) (0.208) (0.156) (0.090) R 2 0.098 0.774 0.177 0.078 0.129 0.095 F Statistic 16.85 0 1.52 2.19 7.72 10.54 Sample size 3629 25 141 414 1007 2042 * p<0.10, ** p<0.05, *** p<0.01 33 Table 5: Weight - for - height model all poorest poorer middle richer richest Parental leduc_yrs 0.15** - 1.03 - 0.16 0.0 8 0.15 0.27** factors (0.0 7 ) (0. 70 ) (0.28) (0.18) (0. 10) ( 0.12 ) L bexp - 0.04 - 1.49 0.25 0.1 6 0.04 - 0.13 ** (0.04 ) (1.24 ) (0.29 ) (0.13 ) (0.08 ) (0.06 ) lprteduc_yrs - 0.11 * 0.05 - 0.04 - 0.14 - 0.03 - 0.22 ** (0.06 ) (0.62 ) (0.23 ) (0.19 ) (0.09 ) (0.10 ) Child factors L birthwgt 0.57 *** 0.84 - 0.11 0.56 0.92 *** 0.53 *** (0. 1 2) (1.46 ) ( 0.31 ) (0.40) ( 0.24 ) (0.17) birth_int 0.001 0.004 0.004 - 0.001 - 0.002 0.003** (0.001) (0.03 ) (0.008) (0.003) (0.002) (0.001) child_fem 0.03 - 0.65 - 0.09 0.17 - 0.06 0 .04 (0.04 ) (0.84) ( 0.20 ) (0.1 4 ) (0.07) (0.06) lchild_age 0.23*** 0.88 0 .13 0.18 0.40 *** 0.18 *** (0.04 ) (0.69 ) (0.22 ) (0.14 ) (0.07 ) (0.06 ) Environmental lhh_n 0.07 - 0.69 0.54 - 0.14 0.12 0.10 factors (0.07 ) (2.40 ) (0.38) (0.2 5 ) (0.1 3 ) (0. 10 ) hhd_fem - 0. 07 - 1.45 - 0.31 0.009 - 0.1 3 - 0.0 2 (0.0 6 ) (1.45) (0.30) ( 0.1 7) (0. 10 ) (0.0 9 ) R ural 0.06 - 0.3 1 0.0 5 0.006 0.11 0.02 (0.05) (1.39) (0.26) (0.14) (0.07) (0.08) dist1 0.047 - 0.91 - 0.13 - 0.10 0.08 0.04 (0.0 6 ) (1.00) (0.23) ( 0.18 ) (0. 1 0) (0.08) N rthcntrl 0.1 7** 0.965 - 0.029 0.176 0.077 0.193** (0.07 ) (1.447) (0.444) (0.208) (0.125) (0.089) N rthest 0.05 2.961 - 0.049 - 0.064 0.032 - 0.060 (0.10 ) (2.088) (0.302) (0.319) (0.190) (0.122) Northwest - 0.66 *** 0.000 - 0.866 - 0.067 - 0.381* - 0.877*** (0.12) (.) (0.551) (0.409) (0.229) (0.162) S thest - 0.01 1.625 - 0.272 - 0.212 - 0.117 0.056 (0.06 ) (2.670) (0.298) (0.185) (0.095) (0.078) S thsth 0.020 - 0.491 0.246 - 0.094 - 0.180 0.109 (0.07 ) (1.54 ) (0.37 ) (0.26 ) (0.11 ) (0.0 9) Wealth P oorest 0.29 quintiles (0.28 ) P oorer - 0.04 (0.11 ) M iddle 0.008 ( 0.08 ) R icher 0.014 (0.05 ) Time dummies y08_dum 0.23 *** 1.24 0.40 - 0.07 0.22 0.17 * (0.0 8) (1.11 ) (0.36) ( 0.22 ) (0.16 ) (0.10 ) y13_dum - 0.18 ** - 0.15 - 0.06 - 0.09 - 0.3 1 ** - 0.2 3 ** (0.07 ) (1.6 7) (0.3 1 ) (0.2 2 ) (0.15) (0. 1 0) R 2 0.06 0.8 0.18 0.03 0.11 0.07 F Statistic 8.57 0 1.93 0.78 6.88 6.99 Sample size 3630 25 141 414 1007 2043 * p<0.10, ** p<0.05, *** p<0.01 34