#http://www.memphis.edu/nso/information/nso_prepare.php
Prepare for Orientation - New Student Orientation - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. New Student Orientation Orientation Information Meet Your Guides Contact Us FAQ NSO Information Spring 2016 Orientation Register for Orientation Prepare for Orientation Explore Your Options Home New Student Orientation NSO Information Prepare for Orientation Prepare for Orientation There are a few things you will need to do to prepare for orientation and the beginning of your collegiate career. Below is a list of some important steps you need to take before attending orientation: ALEKS Math Assessment Health Form and Immunization Requirements ALEKS Math Assessment To better ensure student success, the University of Memphis has adopted a mandatory math assessment, known as ALEKS. The ALEKS assessment provides you with an opportunity to find out what math course best fits your current knowledge and abilities. It is important for success in mathematics that you enroll in a course for which you have the necessary preparation and which leads to the math courses required for your particular major. All incoming students must complete the ALEKS placement assessment before attending New Student Orientation in order to register for any mathematics course. Full information can be found at memphis.edu/aleks and testing access is available through the MyMemphis portal at my.memphis.edu . All students must have the ALEKS math assessment completed prior to their orientation sessions so the score will be available to their academic advisors. Please remember your ALEKS score will determine which math course you are eligible to register for at NSO. However, your advisor will assist you with all of your options for further review and placement at NSO. Visit memphis.edu/aleks for additional information. HEALTH FORM AND IMMUNIZATION REQUIREMENTS Varicella (Chicken Pox) Immunization Proof of two Varicella (chicken pox) immunizations are required for all incoming students. Students must show proof of two vaccinations prior to registering for classes at New Student Orientation. Please note: The two doses must be given at least 30 days apart per CDC guidelines. Students graduating from a Tennessee high school must provide proof of one vaccination given after graduation OR proof of two vaccinations given at any time. Measles, Mumps and Rubella Immunizations Proof of two MMR immunizations are required for all incoming students. Students who did not graduate from a Tennessee high school must show proof of two MMR immunizations. Skin Test for Tuberculosis Students who are not United States Citizens and are coming from areas of high tuberculosis transmission are required to have a Tuberculosis Skin Test (Mantoux, also known as PPD) before registering for classes the University of Memphis at New Student Orientation. The test must have been administered in the United States within the past six months. Visit saweb.memphis.edu/health/immunization/tb_skin.htm for more information and a list of countries whose students may be excluded from receiving the test. Hepatitis B and Meningitis Immunization Health History Form Students who will be under the age of 18 during their orientation session must have the Meningococcal Meningitis and Hepatitis B Immunization Health History Form completed and signed by a parent or legal guardian. When completing the form, please mark your selection on both sections of the form and have your parent or legal guardian sign both sections of the form. Student Health Services highly recommends students have both vaccinations. Students living in on-campus residence halls must be immunized against the meningococcal disease. The State of Tennessee requires students under the age of 22 who will be living in a University of Memphis residence to be immunized against meningococcal disease on or after their 16th birthday and to provide proof of receiving this immunization before moving into their residence. Return your completed forms and/or immunization records to Student Health Services via the immunization upload system at umwa.memphis.edu/immunizations/ or by mail to: The University of Memphis, Student Health Services 200 Hudson Health Center, Memphis, TN 38152 If your doctor's office does not provide a standard form of your immunization history, they may complete the University of Memphis Immunization Health History Form at It is strongly recommended that you also BRING a copy of your forms and records with you to New Student Orientation. NSO Information Spring 2016 Orientation Register for Orientation Prepare for Orientation Explore Your Options Register for Orientation Register to attend one of the orientation sessions. Be Prepared Things you need to know before your orientation. Explore Your Options Important information to help you during orientation. Meet Your Guides See the guides who will be available to assist you. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .