#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/Univ_college/american.php
American Studies - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs American Studies American Studies American Studies engages students in an examination of the culture and society of the United States with attention paid to the ways in which Americans express their basic values and give meaning to their institutions and everyday social practices. These values, institutions, and practices are a reflection, in part, of the different experiences of a people, according to their race, gender, class, and historical roots. These guidelines provide students and faculty the opportunity to explore the commonalities and differences among Americans through an interdisciplinary course of study. Program Summary A. General Education (35-41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. Students who have completed one year of American History in high school are exempted from the six credit-hour History General Education Program requirement; otherwise, students will have to meet the History requirement. B. American Studies Concentration (33 hours) Required Core: (take all of the following) HIST 2010 The United States to 1877 HIST 2020 The United States Since 1877 UNIV 3531 American Experience: Images and Narrative Group 1: Literature, Communications and Fine Arts (Take at least 4 courses from this group) ARTH 4166 Social History of American Art ARTH 4185 African-American Art COMM 3361 African-American Rhetoric COMM 4360 American Eloquence COMM 4381 Senior Seminar in Rhetoric and Communication COMM 4851 Film History II (1940-1960) COMM 4856 Women and Film ENGL 3327 American Literature to 1865 ENGL 3328 American Literature since 1865 ENGL 3521 The American Language ENGL 4372 Major African-American Authors Through the Harlem Renaissance ENGL 4373 Major African-American Authors Since the Harlem Renaissance HIST 3863 Social and Intellectual History of the United States JOUR 1700 Survey of Mass Communication JOUR 3700 History of Journalism JOUR 4702 Current Issues in Journalism MUHL 4801 American Folk and Popular Music MUHL 4805 History of Rock and Roll MUHL 4806 History of Jazz MUHL 4807 Memphis Music SLS 3105 Sports and Leisure as Popular Culture Group 2: History, Philosophy, Politics and Social Institutions (Take at least 4 courses from this group) ANTH 4336 Native Peoples of the Mid-South ANTH 3282 American Communities ANTH 4420 American Folklore CJUS 3326 Courts in America CJUS 3426 Corrections in America ECON 3210 Labor Economics ECON 3411 Economics of Social Issues ESCI 3401 Historical Geography of the United States HIST 3035 Technology and Culture in American History HIST 3823 Economic History of the U.S. HIST 3905 History of Memphis HIST 4670 Civil War and Reconstruction HIST 4701 The United States: 1914 to the Second World War HIST 4851 History of Women in America HIST 3881 African-American History HIST 4941 History of the American Indian LEAD 4000 Education/School/American Society PADM 4221 Issues in Urban Administration PHIL 3880 Problems in Philosophy (when topic pertains to the U.S. ) PHIL 3741 African-American Philosophy POLS 3102 Religion and Politics POLS 3217 The Political Media POLS 3220 U.S. Congress POLS 3506 American Foreign Policy POLS 4211 Constitutional Law: National Powers POLS 4212 Constitutional Law: Civil Liberty POLS 4224 Urban Problems POLS 4405 Origin and Development of American Political Thought POLS 4506 Problems of American Foreign Policy SLS 4145 The Cultural Formation of Sports in Urban America SOCI 3420 Sociology of the South SOCI 4420 Racial Inequality SOCI 4460 Black and White Women in the South SOCI 4631 Cities in Change C. Thematic Studies (6 hours) D. Senior Project (3 hours) UNIV 4995 Senior Project (completed during the final semester) E. Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120 with a minimum of 42 upper-division hours. College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .