#http://www.memphis.edu/development/options/
options - Development - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Development Donate Now Giving Options Inside the Office of Development Ways to Give Home Development Giving Options Giving Options Scholarships Colleges, Schools &amp; Departments Naming Opportunities and Endowments Memorials and Honoriaum Libraries Academic Fund Women in Leadership &amp; Philanthropy Other Giving Options Scholarships The single most important concern that many students and their families face is how to pay for a college education. Scholarships are a vital tool to assist students in meeting educational expenses – and they are the only way that some can fulfill their dreams of earning a college degree. By underwriting or offsetting tuition and expenses, you help ensure that the UofM experience is affordable to motivated and deserving students. Scholarships also play an important role in helping the University attract and retain talented students who will be leaders in our community. Scholarships may be need-based, merit-based or a combination of both, and they may be designated to any academic area on campus. They may be established as an award with a minimum annual investment of $2,000 or endowed at any level above $30,000. We will work with you on naming the fund and designing the award criteria. However you craft your scholarship, you can have confidence in knowing that the recipients will be deserving students who have the ambition to succeed at the University of Memphis and beyond. Simply put, scholarships have the unique ability to change lives. An investment in scholarships is an investment in the University's most valuable resource, its students. The return on your investment is immeasurable and upholds the future of our university, state and nation for generations to come. For more specific scholarship options, please contact the Director of Development for your desired area. Colleges, Schools &amp; Departments Support the college, school, or department that shaped your life. Each area has special projects, scholarships, funds, and initiatives that are their greatest need. Find out more about high priority projects and funds by contacting the Director of Development for your school or college. Remember, alumni giving is essential at the University of Memphis. If each of our 100,000+ alumni gave just $10, in one year, alumni support will make over a million dollar impact! Naming Opportunities and Endowments An array of opportunities exist at the University of Memphis to lend your name (or that of someone you wish to honor) to a special fund, program or facility. Professorships, assistantships, scholarships, buildings and educational programs are all critical investments at the University and can be named within University guidelines. With such a gift, you can not only make a vital commitment to the future of the University and its students, but can also provide a lasting declaration or your support and a model for others to emulate. To discuss ideas for various naming opportunities and endowments, please contact the Director of Development for your desired area. Click to learn more about naming opportunities and endowments for: • Graduate Assistantships/Fellowships • Endowed Faculty Positions (Professorships and Chairs) • Buildings and Facilities • Other Naming Opportunities (Named Endowments) Endowments are valuable to the University of Memphis because they create an ongoing source of income, enhance our stability and prestige, and allow for important program expansion. Because endowed gifts provide a permanent stream of income, they ensure that funding is secure to grow our teaching and research programs for generations to come. Only a small percentage of the endowment fund's market value is used annually for the purpose designated by the donor. Thus, once the endowment is created, it is maintained in perpetuity. Named endowments provide the donor an opportunity for individual recognition or recognition for family members, friends, mentors, or other colleagues. Memorials and Honorarium Tribute gifts are deeply appreciated and can give form and permanence to someone's life by recognizing them at the University of Memphis. For each tribute gift, UofM sends notification of the gift to the individual(s) that you designate. Please include the name and address of the individual(s) you would like us to notify along with your gift. Gift credit is given to the donor, as well as tax credit per the current tax laws. To learn more about tribute gifts, click here . To make a tribute gift now, click here to make your gift online. Libraries As the component of the University that touches each student and faculty or staff member, as well as countless others across our communities, there is no more critical element to our institution and its scholarship than the University Libraries . In order to grow resources for all Library users and acquire, preserve and provide access to materials, external funding to the Libraries is vital and needed now more than ever. Gifts to the University Libraries are investments, not only in the future of the Libraries, but in the future of our entire University and the community. Academic Fund Be True Blue! Gifts from alumni, parents, faculty, staff and friends to the Academic Fund are given to the University of Memphis with no restrictions, and the funds go where they are needed most. Your gift supports all academic and special interest programs at the University: • High-Quality Educational Experiences • Expanded Research Opportunities • Need-Based Financial Aid Assistance • Important Facility Updates • Enhancements to Technological Resources Women in Leadership &amp; Philanthropy When women work together for the good of our university and our community, we are an unparalleled force for change. Women in Leadership &amp; Philanthropy gives women the opportunity to engage in the life of the university, to support our students, and to give back in meaningful ways. We invite you to discover and celebrate the individual and collective accomplishments of our alumnae and friends through WLP. Other Giving Options Please click to learn more about giving opportunities in Athletics and Alumni Association . Staff Directory Meet the Development Staff University of Memphis Foundation Learn about the University of Memphis Foundation Alumni Association Learn about the Alumni Association Glossary Click here for a Glossary of Terms Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .