#http://www.memphis.edu/service/programs.php
Programs - Community Service - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Community Service Consultation Programs SAS Service Hours Service Opportunities Home Community Service Programs Great ways to plug in. Alternative Spring Break (ASB) A community service experience during the week of spring break. ASB participants spend the week serving nonprofit agencies and their clients and making a difference in the lives of others while experiencing the culture of the community they are serving. ASB provides students with an opportunity to gain personal growth through education, direct service and new experience, in order to facilitate change in our personal perspectives, relationships and environments, to create life-long links between students and service. The University of Memphis Alternative Spring Break Program is a drug and alcohol free program. Service on Saturday This monthly program, sponsored by Students Advocating Service (SAS), is designed to give students, staff and faculty a quick and easy way to volunteer in the community with no long-term commitment. The program usually offers about 6-12 different community service opportunities to choose from. Participants who sign-up in advance online, get their choice of these projects. Programs generally begin at 8:30 am with free breakfast and end around 12:00-1:00 pm with free lunch. Burning to Serve? Apply to be a 2015 Site Leader for our Service on Saturdays here . (Application in pdf format). Fall 2015 Service on Saturday Dates September 19, 2015 October 24, 2015 November 21, 2015 Weekly Volunteer Opportunities SAS organizes several weekly opportunities for students to volunteer in the Memphis community. Tutoring The SAS Tutoring Program offers University of Memphis volunteers with weekly opportunities to tutor in the Memphis community. Days, times, and location for Fall 2015 will be available in late August. Hunger &amp; Homelessness The SAS Hunger &amp; Homelessness Program provides University of Memphis volunteers with weekly opportunities to serve hunger and homelessness issues in the Memphis community. This committee also organizes the annual Hunger Banquet, a interactive simulation of global class systems and hunger issues. Days, times, and location for Fall 2015 will be available in late August. Special Projects The SAS Special Projects Program also provides University of Memphis volunteers with weekly opportunities to be involved in community service. Each semester, SAS selects a different organization to serve and invites students each week to volunteer with that site. Days, times, and location for Fall 2015 will be available in late August. Habitat for Humanity Campus Chapter The Habitat for Humanity University of Memphis Campus Chapter supports the local and international efforts Habitat for Humanity. Click the linked title above for more information. For more information about any of our Community Service Programs, call 901.678.8679. Volunteer! Search for volunteer organizations. Student Involvement Find an involvement opportunity that suits you! Community Service Highlight Your Life with Community Service! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .