#http://www.memphis.edu/iso/tax/india.php
Tax Treaty Information for Nationals of India - ISO - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. International Student Office (ISO) Students Tax Information Insurance Employment Tips Social Security/Income Tax Information Social Security Information Home ISO Social Security/Income Tax Information Tax Treaty Information for Nationals of India Tax Treaty Information for Nationals of India UNITED STATES TAX TREATY - PROVISIONS FOR STUDENTS Tax Year 2012 Article 21 of the treaty stipulates that residents of India who are in the United States to study do not need to pay U.S. income tax on any payments received from India (or other country outside the U.S.) for the purposes of maintenance, education or training. Thus, payments received from U.S. sources (such as a scholarship or assistantship from The University of Tennessee) are taxable. As most international students are considered "nonresidents" for tax purposes, they are already exempt from U.S. income tax from income that comes from outside the U.S. Thus, most Indian students will be required to pay income tax on all U.S. income. However, students (not scholars) from India, unlike other non-residents, may choose to claim the standard deduction, instead of itemizing deductions*. In addition,F-1 and J-1 students may claim an exemption for each spouse or dependent child who meets the following criteria: a) is living with the student in the U.S. during the tax year b) is not claimed as dependent by another taxpayer c) does not have any gross income in the U.S. d) if not a spouse, does not hold F-2 or J-2 immigration status (a spouse who meets criteria a-c may be claimed as a dependent) e) a U.S. citizen child. * In most cases, claiming the standard deduction will result in lower taxes than itemizing deductions.) [If you have another dependent with you in the U.S., such as a parent, it may be possible to claim this person as a dependent; such a person would have to be considered a U.S. Tax Resident. Consult a tax advisor to discuss this possibility.] Note: If you claim the standard deduction, you may not deduct any itemized deductions, such as state income tax. Remember: if you are claiming any dependents, each one must have a Social Security Number or ITIN ( Individual Taxpayer Identification Number) For the tax year 2012 this translates to the following dollar amounts: a. An Indian student may take an exemption of $3800 or him/herself and each eligible dependent. (Note eligibility criteria above. No exemption may be claimed for a dependent who has gross U.S. income.) b. The standard deduction for a single student or for a married student filing separately is $5950. When completing the 1040NR-EZ for your 2012 tax return, enter $5950 on Line 11, and list treaty information in Question J, Page 2. If you are claiming exemptions for dependents use Form 1040NR and enter $5950 on Line 38. (Married students who are Tax Non-residents must normally file tax return separately (not jointly) unless the spouse is a Tax Resident). Indian students will be able to subtract both the exemption(s) and the standard deductions from their income before calculating tax owed (as long as they do not itemize deductions). ($3800 + $5950 = $9750 for 2012) Exemptions are subtracted on Line 13 of the Form 1040NR-EZ or on Line 40 of Form 1040NR. Note: The amount allowed for exemptions &amp; standard deduction changes each year. This information will be available in Form 1040 or 1040A (Resident) instructions which can be seen on the IRS website at . Note: See IRS Publication 901, Page 22 for information about tax treaty provisions for students. When filling out a W-4 form, Indian students may claim exemptions for any eligible dependents. We suggest that Non-resident students from India write “ NRA-INDIA ” in large letters on your W-4. Do NOT file a Form 8233. IMPORTANT: The treaty benefits described above do not apply to Scholars from India. Scholars may not claim the standard deduction, and may not claim exemptions for their dependents. See IRS Publication 901 (Page 16) for information about tax treaty provisions for scholars Social Security/Income Tax Information Social Security Information FAQs Got a question? Links of Interest More information for International Students Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .