#http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/resources/po_freshmen.php
Parents of Freshmen - Parent &amp; Family Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parent &amp; Family Services About Events Communication Resources Get Involved Give Back Visit UofM Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Home Parent &amp; Family Services Resources Parents of Freshmen Parents of Freshmen Students Welcome to the University of Memphis! We are so excited to welcome you and your family into the University of Memphis community. Below you will find important information for your student as they prepare to attend the University of Memphis. Important Dates: Scholarship Admissions Deadline: December 1, 2014 Financial Aid Priority Deadline: March 1, 2015 New Student Orientation : For a complete list of dates, please click here . Frosh Camp: Session I: June 15 - June 18, 2015 Session II: July 13 - July 16, 2015 Session III: August 3 - August 6, 2015 Residence Hall Move-In : Thursday, August 20, 2015, 1:00 to 4:30 pm Emerging Leaders and Honors Program Residents assigned to the Living Learning Complex Friday, August 21, 2015 10:00 am to 12:00 pm (Noon): Residents of Rawls Hall 1:00 to 4:30 pm: All Residents Saturday, August 22, 2015 1:00 to 4:30 pm: All Residents First Day of Classes: Monday, August 24, 2015 New Student Convocation : Monday, August 24, 2015 at 2:00 pm in Rose Theatre Financial Aid and Scholarships The Office of Financial Aid administers federal, state, and institutional aid programs to qualified students. To receive financial aid, qualified students must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) . The Financial Aid priority deadline is March 1. For more information on your student applying for and receiving financial aid, please click here . The Undergraduate Scholarship Office awards hundreds of academic scholarships each year to entering freshmen. A separate scholarship application is not required unless noted. The deadline for admission to the University of Memphis for scholarship consideration is December 1 . There are also non-academic scholarships available to students. For a list of scholarships and more information on scholarship offers, please click here . For information on cost of attendance , please visit the Financial Aid website or click here . New Student and Parent Orientation Students and parents are encouraged to attend orientation, as it prepares both for college life at the University of Memphis. Parents have a chance to learn about their student’s new home and ask all the questions they like. Please register early as the sessions fill up quickly. For more information on New Student Orientation, please click here . For more information on Parent Orientation, please click here. Frosh Camp Held during the summer, Frosh Camp is an opportunity to help students to prepare for their transition to college. It is also a wonderful introduction to the University and to being a Tiger! For more information, please click here . Please register early as the sessions do fill quickly. ALEKS Math Placement Test To better ensure student success, the University of Memphis has adopted a mandatory placement assessment, known as ALEKS . Because students are admitted with a wide variety of strengths and backgrounds in mathematics, it is reasonable to expect that there will be various levels of readiness among students. ALEKS is a powerful artificial intelligence based mechanism to assess math proficiency and skill level. It is important for student success in mathematics that they enroll in a course for which they have the necessary preparation and which leads to the math courses required for their particular major. For more information, click here . Resources Make sure to check out all the resources that we have on our website to help you and your student transition into college life. Below are just a few of the pages that might be helpful. Publications for Parents Tips for Parents of Incoming Freshmen University of Memphis Vocabulary College Vocabulary Parent Handbook Living On and Off Campus We encourage students to live on campus their first year of college as it gives them the opportunity to fully immerse themselves in the college experience and to get involved on campus. For more information on the residence options available to students, please visit the Residence Life web site . For students who live off campus, there are a variety of options within walking distance or a short drive from the university. Adult and Commuter Student Services manages a site dedicated to off-campus housing . Please review our Parents of Commuter Students page as well. Meal Plans Whether living on or off campus, there are a variety of meal plan options for all of our students. Please click here to view the various options. Parent Handbook: Living On and Off Campus Fraternity and Sorority Recruitment For our students who are interested in joining a Fraternity or Sorority, please visit the Fraternity and Sorority Affairs website for more information by clicking here . Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Contact Us Got questions, comments, or concerns? We're here to help! Parent &amp; Family E-news Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News. Parent &amp; Family Handbook Learn about opportunities and services available to students. In the Now: September FAQs What you need to know this month to help you help your student Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .