#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT4710M50.pdf
Course Syllabus MGMT 4710 - M50 Strategic Management Fall 2015 3 credit hours Instructor: Kelly Mollica, Ph.D. Office Phone: (731) 425 - 7960 or x 5010 from Memphis campus Cell Phone: (731) 234 - 1524 (call or text) E - mail: kmollica@memphis.edu Office: 302 Varnell - Jones, UM Lambuth Campus, Jackson Skype ID: k.mollica URL: memphis.edu/management/faculty/kmollica.php Office Hours: Feel free to contact me for a phone or Skype appointment Course Overview This is a capstone course required of all senior business majors. The course is designed to build on and integrate concepts in various functional areas of business. The overall focus of this course is on strategic planning and execution -- the key ingredie nts of company success and the most reliable signs of good management. You will explore why effective strategic management leads to good business performance, learn the methods of crafting a well - conceived strategy and executing it competently, and apply the tools and concepts of strategic analysis. In brief, strategic management addresses three questions critical to any organization: (1) Where are we now? (2) Where do we want to go? and (3) How are we going to get there? (You may also be asking yourself these same questions about your own career situation!) As with all college - level courses, an additional goal is to continue improving important career skills: written and oral communication, and critical thinking skills. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: Th e pre - requisites for this class are MGMT 3110, MGMT 3510, and senior standing in the Fogelman College of Business & Economics. Required Text: Softcover custom version available in UM bookstore: Thompson, Peteraf, & Gamble, Crafting & Executing Strategy: The Quest for Competitive Advantage - Concepts and Cases , 2015, 20 th edition, McGraw - Hill Create. ISBN 9781308558783. - OR - Hardcover available anywhere you can find it: Thompson, Peteraf, & Gamble, Crafting & Executing Strategy: The Quest for Comp etitive Advantage - Concepts and Cases, 2015, 20 th edition, McGraw - Hill. ISBN 9780077720599. - OR - eBook: Search for ISBN 9780077720599 on websites such as coursesmart.com, packbackbooks.com, or other websites where eBooks are available. Any one of the above choices contains everything you need for the class. No special software or publisher access codes are needed. Course Objectives: By successfully completing this course, you will: 1. develop your capacity to think strategically about a compan y, its present business position, its long - term direction, its resources and competitive capabilities, the caliber of its strategy, and its opportunities for gaining sustainable competitive advantage; 2. build your skills in conducting strategic analysis in a variety of industries and competitive situations using relevant strategic analysis tools and concepts; 3. further your understanding of the challenges of competing in a global market; 4. become acquainted with the managerial tasks associated with planning, implementing, and executing company strategies; 5. integrate the knowledge gained in earlier core courses in the business school curriculum; 6. heighten your awareness of why ethical principles and socially responsible and 7. enhance your written and oral business communication skills. Fogelman College Learning Outcomes for Your Degree: This course is designed t o help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with the overall learning objectives as a student in the BBA program: fcbeassessment.net/LearningOutcomes/BBADegreeLearningOutcomes.pdf Course Methodology and Website Information: This is a completely online course and you are not required to be physically p resent on campus for any course activity. Everything will be done fully online and asynchronously. The main hub of this course is the eCourseware website. You are responsible for ensuring that you have access to the website and for meeting minimum techno logy requirements so that you can successfully complete the course. If you encounter technical difficulties and need help with eCourseware, you should contact the UM Help Desk ( umhelpdesk.memphis. edu/ ). Note that there are specific windows when activities are open and closed, and deadlines for completion of assignments. Over the semester, you will have a variety of opportunities to earn points towards your final course grade. This section of the syllabus describes the assessed work you will be doing and how final grades will be computed. Quizzes: The purpose of the quizzes is to assess your comprehension of the key course concepts as covered in the textbook. Quiz zes will be open during a 4 - day window, Thursday through Sunday. Each quiz covers one chapter. The quizzes are timed. You must complete the quiz in one sitting; you cannot save and return later. You are allowed two quiz deadline extensions (i.e., two chap ters) during the semester. You may request a 24 - hour extension with a - 5 point grade penalty, but only if you submit an email request in advance of the deadline, or no later than noon on the Monday following the quiz deadline. Note that the extension is for a 24 - hour period p.m. Monday to take the quiz. I will not extend quiz deadlines more than 24 hours and I cannot extend a deadline for a quiz that you have already ope ned. Discussions: There are a total of ten online discussions. The purpose of Discussions 1 - 9 is to provide opportunities for you to interact with classmates and the instructor on topics relevant to the course. Discussions will stay open one week, star ting on Monday and closing the following Sunday. You must post at least three comments per discussion topic as follows: (1) no later than Thursday you must start a new thread and post your initial response to the topic; and (2) no later than Sunday you mu st post responses to at The purpose of Discussion 10 is to give you an opportunity to prepare and post a very short practice screencast to ensure that you can use the technology required for the final case project. Discussi on 10 will stay open for two weeks. Specific instructions for Discussion 10 will be posted on the eCourseware website. Be sure to check the schedule carefully to keep up with when discussions open and close. Deadlines for discussions will not be extended for any reason, unless there are technical glitches that affect the entire class. Case Analyses: The purposes of the case analyses are to evaluate your ability to apply strategic management tools and concepts and to give you opportunities to improve your written, analytical, and critical thinking skills. You will submit written analyses of three cases (available in the textbook). Specific instructions and guidelines on the case analyses will be available on the eCourseware website. You are allowed to su bmit the case analyses up to 24 hours late with a grade penalty ( - 5 points Case 1, - 10 pts Cases 2 & 3). Case analyses will not be accepted more than 24 hours late. Final Case Project (Final Exam): The purposes of the final case project are to evaluate your ability to apply course concepts and to give you an opportunity to practice presentation and communication course. You will be presenting an analysis of a case from the textbook in a PowerPoint with voice - over audio format using a free screencasting tool. Detailed instructions will be provided early in the semester. You are allowed to submit the final project up to 24 hours late with a - 15 point grade penalty. The final project will not be accepted more than 24 hours late. Summary of Graded Activities: Points earned on the assessed activities will be distributed as follows: Graded Activity Points Quizzes: 10 quizzes x 15 pts each 150 Discussions: 10 discussions x 5 pts each 50 Case Analysis: Vera Bradley 25 Case Analysis: Panera Bread 50 Case Analysis: Sirius XM Satellite 50 Final Case Project: PepsiCo Diversification 75 Total Points 400 Final Course Grades: Final course grades are earned as follows: Point Range Final Grade Point Range Final Grade 398 - 400 A+ 306 - 317 C+ 370 - 397 A 290 - 305 C 358 - 369 A - 278 289 C - 346 - 357 B+ 266 277 D+ 330 - 345 B 238 - 265 D 318 - 329 B - < 238 F Course Policies Syllabus and Course Changes: I reserve the right to make changes to the syllabus, course schedule, deadlines, and/or assignments any time, with reasonable prior notice to students. E - mail: I do not use eCourseware email. You must em ail me at kmollica@memphis.edu. I will not respond to emails sent through the eCourseware email system. You are required to maintain and access your University of Memphis email account (e.g., yourname@memphis.edu). You will receive all official course cor respondence at this email account and it is your responsibility to check your U of M email regularly during the semester. I strongly recommend you email me from your U of M email rather than a l addresses sometimes go straight to my spam folder, so please be aware of this possibility. eCourseware: You are responsible for learning how to use eCourseware, for ensuring that you have access to a reliable computer and adequate Internet connection, an d for addressing technical problems immediately. I strongly urge you to take quizzes and submit assignments well in advance rather than waiting until the last minute. If you wait until the last minute and experience technical problems that prevent you from completing or submitting on time, this does not excuse you from meeting the deadline. If there is a system - wide technical problem or glitch that affects all students, I will extend deadlines if necessary. Attendance and Participation: The class is asynchronous, meaning that there are no scheduled meeting times, and formal attendance will not be taken. However, you are expected to stay active and engaged throughout the academic term and keep up with the schedule of activities. Your class attendance begins on the first day of the semester and should be maintained until the last assignment is submitted. As with on - ground courses, I am required to report lack of attendance to the university. For students receiving federal student loans, lack of activity in the course may be treated as non - attendance and can potentially impact student loan eligibility. You should log into the course at several times per week. Keep up with deadlines and announcements communicated by me via the course website a nd email. Stay active and involved throughout the entire semester. Be sure to participate in the discussions, which will give you the opportunity to interact with your classmates on a weekly basis. Professional Behavior and Communication: Ensure that your communication with me and your classmates is professional and courteous at all times in this course, just as you would in a business setting. Likewise, you should expect professional and courteous communication from me. I expect you to r ead and abide by the Fogelman College of Business Netiquette Guide for Online Courses: memphis.edu/fcbe/students/netiquette.php . You are expected to demonstrate good written sk ills in all writing in this class (i.e., written assignments, online discussions, and emails), using correct spelling, grammar, punctuation, and word usage. Poor writing is unacceptable and will be reflected in your grade. If you receive feedback from me t hat your writing is poor, the wrong reaction is to become offended and insulted. A more constructive reaction is to work on improvement. Ask me questions if you are confused about course expectations and assignments, but make sure you first read everythin g carefully (e.g., syllabus, course handouts, assignment instructions, course website, textbook, etc.) before requesting clarification. contact me. Take responsibili ty for initiating a discussion with me if you have questions or concerns about your performance, grades, or other class - related issues. If you are experiencing a problem in the course, I encourage you to notify me immediately rather than waiting until the semester is over. I welcome criticism and feedback offered in a respectful and constructive manner, and so should you. I am not perfect and I sometimes make mistakes in written information, instructions, and eCourseware settings. When this happens, let me know immediately. I am never offended when students point out my mistakes in fact, I will reward you for doing so! Deadlines, Extra Credit, and Make - Up Work: All students are held to the same expectations in this class. You either do the work or I do not extend deadlines beyond the late assignment policies noted above in the syllabus. I do not accept extra credit (unless it is offered to everyone in the class). I do not accept make - semester for students who are failing the class because they performed poorly on the assignments or did not complete the work by the deadlines. Academic Integrity: I expect you to carefully review and adhere to the following policies and guidelines related to academic integrity: Responsibilities: u/studentconduct/pdfs/csrr.pdf Fogelman College of Business & Economics Standards for Academic Integrity: memphis.edu/fcbe/students/integrity.php Information on plagiarism: memphis.edu/fcbe/students/plagiarism.php I do not tolerate cheating or plagiarism, and I will accept no excuses for dishonest behavior. By taking this course, you agree that you r written assignments may be submitted to Turnitin.com, or a similar electronic detection method for the purposes of detecting plagiarism. Blatant plagiarism will result in a failing grade and may be reported to the University for further action. If you ar e working on an assignment and you sincerely do not want to plagiarize but you are uncertain how to avoid it, feel free to ask me for guidance. There is no penalty in asking for help prior to submitting an assignment. However, I will not accept any excuses for plagiarism after an assignment is submitted for grading. I evaluate plagiarism based on what you actually submit. Ignorance or lack of intention are not acc eptable reasons for plagiarized work. Student Services: Refer to for information about: Students with disabilities Tutoring and other academic assistance Advising services for Fogelman students Technical assistance You can find information about Student Services available at the Lambuth campus at this website: Course Schedule Date Topics and Assignments Aug 24 30 Discussion 1 Aug 27 30 Quiz Ch. 1: What is Strategy & Why is it Important? Aug 31 Sept 6 Discussion 2 Sept 3 6 Quiz Ch. 2: Sept 7 13 Discussion 3 Sept 10 13 Quiz Ch. 3: Sept 14 20 Discussion 4 Sept 17 20 Quiz Ch. 4: Sept 23 Case 1 Due: Vera Bradley Sept 21 27 Discussion 5 Sept 24 27 Quiz Ch. 5: The Five Generic Competitive Strategies Sept 28 Oct 4 Discussion 6 Oct 1 - 4 Quiz Ch. 6: Oct 21 Case 2 Due: Panera Bread Company Oct 19 25 Discussion 7 Oct 22 25 Quiz Ch. 7: Strategies for Competing in International Markets Oct 26 Nov 1 Discussion 8 Oct 29 Nov 1 Quiz Ch. 8: Corporate Strategy Nov 2 8 Discussion 9 Nov 5 8 Quiz Ch. 9: Ethics, Corporate Social Responsibility, & Environmental Sustainability Nov 18 Case 3 Due: Sirius XM Satellite Radio Nov 19 22 Quiz Ch. 10: Building an Organization Capable of Good Strategy Execution Nov 16 30 Discussion 10 (stays open for 2 weeks) Dec 2