#http://www.memphis.edu/rsp/forms.php
Forms - RSP - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Division of Research and Sponsored Programs Vice President Compliance Sponsored Programs Research Development Home RSP Forms Forms, Instructions, and Guides Proposal Development and Miscellaneous Research Administration Compliance in the Conduct of Research Research Disclosure Miscellaneous Federal Agency Application Forms IRB Forms Proposal Development Form Name Format/Web Links Comments Proposal Summary Form Word PDF The summary form must be submitted for review/approval of proposals to external sponsors. Budget Template (Excel files) 1-2 year budget 3 year budget 4 year budget 5 year budget Go to Budget Information for important notice on deadlines. Advance Account Request Form PDF For internal approval when award is delayed. Instructions are found here . Center/Institute/ Bureau Authorization Word University approval of Center, Institute, or Bureau designation Dual Service Agreement Information Form Word For UofM Employee providing services to a State agency or another institution Unlike Circumstances Form Excel Budget justification for unlike circumstances Compliance in the Conduct of Research Form Name Format/Web Link Comments Institutional Review Board, Human Subjects IRB Forms (link) Contact: IRB Administrator, 678-2705 IACUC, Live Vertebrates Protocol Word Contact: Director, Animal Care, 678-2359 IACUC, Live Vertebrates Protocol Annual Update Word Contact: Director, Animal Care, 678-2359 Financial Disclosure Form UM Policy and Procedure Research Disclosure Form Name Format/Web Link Comments Research Disclosure Statement PDF For inventions and copyrightable works Intellectual Property Policy Link to policy UM1607 Contact: VP for Research, 2590 Invention Disclosure Form Word Contact: VP for Research, 2590 Copyrightable Work Disclosure Word PDF Contact: VP for Research, 2590 MISCELLANEOUS FEDERAL AGENCY APPLICATION FORMS Federal Agency Name Web Links Comments National Science Foundation NSF Grant Proposal Guide (GPG), NSF 13-1 The newest version of the comprehensive Grant Proposal Guide for proposal development National Science Foundation NSF Guide to Programs Browse the primary source for NSF programs and funding opportunities National Science Foundation NSF Award and Administration Guide Comprehensive source for NSF policies and procedures National Science Foundation NSF grants.gov Application Guide Specific instructions for preparing NSF proposal using grants.gov National Science Foundation NSF Fastlane Submission Guide For technical instructions in the use of NSF Fastlane National Institutes of Health PHS 398 and 2590 Forms (6/2009) PHS forms and instructions, including the new grants.gov 424 R&amp;R National Institutes of Health NIH Grant Policy Statement (10/13) Policy requirements that serve as the terms and conditions of NIH grant awards National Institutes of Health NIH administrative/business forms For conducting business with NIH grants.gov grants.gov Find and Apply Find and Apply for competitive grant opportunities U.S. Government forms.gov Search for Federal forms U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) DHHS, FDA, NIH, ACF Health and Humans Services forms U.S. Dept. of Agriculture (USDA) Grant Information Program descriptions Army Research Office (ARO) Forms Scroll down to Forms under "For the Researcher" Forms Forms and other useful information Staff Staff of Research and Sponsored Programs and Grants Accounting Resources Institutional information and resources for the researcher Research Portal Research Portal Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .