#http://www.memphis.edu/management/faculty/dallen.php
DAVID ALLEN - MGMT - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Management Welcome Programs Courses Faculty PhD Students Research FCBE Faculty Welcome Programs Courses Faculty PhD Students Research Contact Us Home MGMT Faculty DAVID ALLEN DAVID ALLEN Professor, Department of Management Phone 901-678-4729 Email dallen@memphis.edu Fax 901-678-4990 Office FCB 229 Office Hours by appointment CV Website Profile Dr. Allen earned his Ph.D. from the Beebe Institute of Personnel and Employment Relations at Georgia State University. He is a Professor of Management in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics at the University of Memphis. His primary research interests include the flow of people into and out of organizations and the role of technology in human resource management. His research on these topics has been published in Academy of Management Journal, Academy of Management Perspectives, Journal of Applied Psychology, Journal of Management, Personnel Psychology, Organizational Research Methods, Journal of Organizational Behavior, Human Relations , Human Resource Management , and other outlets. Dr. Allen is a recipient of a First Tennessee Professorship, and a recipient of three Suzanne Downs Palmer Professorship awards for research. He teaches undergraduate, graduate, and executive courses primarily in the areas of human resource management and organizational behavior, as well as research methods. He does organizational research, consulting, and training on topics such as recruitment, retention, and organizational effectiveness, and has worked with organizations such as the Red Cross, Campbell Clinic, First Tennessee, Georgia Department of Family and Children Services, Harrah's Entertainment, Methodist Hospitals, Pfizer, Pinnacle Corporation, Region's Bank, and the U.S. Navy. Dr. Allen teaches undergraduate courses in Managing Human Resources for Organizational Effectiveness (MGMT 3215), Employee Staffing and Development (MGMT 4260), and Organizational Behavior (MGMT 4220), an Executive MBA course on Strategic Human Resource Management (MGMT 7250), as well as doctoral seminars in Human Resource Management (MGMT 8220) and Research Design (MGMT 8921). Dr. Allen's vita can be found at Representative Publications Hancock, J.I., Allen, D.G., Bosco, F.A., Pierce, C.A., &amp;amp; McDaniel, K. (provisionally accepted). Meta-analytic review of employee turnover as a predictor of firm performance. Journal of Management. Earnest, D., Allen, D.G., &amp;amp; Landis, R.L. (in press). Mechanisms linking realistic job previews with turnover: A meta-analytic path analysis. Personnel Psychology . Robinson, S. D.,Griffeth, R, W., Allen, D. G., &amp;amp; Lee, M. (in press). Comparing operationalizations of dual commitment and its relationship with turnover intentions. International Journal of Human Resource Management . Renn, R.W., Allen, D.G., &amp;amp; Huning, T.M. (2011). Empirical examination of the individual-level personality-based theory of self-management failure. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 32 , 25-43. Allen, D.G., Bryant, P.C., &amp;amp; Vardman, J.M. (2010). Retaining talent: Replacing misconceptions with evidence-based strategies. Academy of Management Perspectives, 24, 48-64. * 2011 Outstanding Practitioner Publication Award, OB Division of the Academy of Management * Finalist 2010 Outstanding Article Award, Academy of Management Perspectives Allen, D.G., Griffeth, R.G., Vardaman, J.M., Aquino, K., Gaertner, S., Lee, M. (2009). Structural validity and generalisability of a referent cognitions model of turnover intentions. Applied Psychology: An International Review, 58 , 709-728. Ma, R. &amp;amp; Allen, D.G. (2009). Recruiting across cultures: A value-based model of recruitment. Human Resource Management Review, 19, 334-346. Bryant, P.C. &amp;amp; Allen, D.G. (2009). Emerging organizations' characteristics as predictors of human capital employment mode: A theoretical perspective. Human Resource Management Review, 19 , 347-355. Goldberg, C.B. &amp;amp; Allen, D.G. (2008). Web recruiting: Can organizations level the playing field for minority job seekers? Human Resource Management, 47 , 217-236. * Nominee 2009 Saroj Parasuraman Award for Outstanding Publication on Gender and Diversity Vardaman, J.M., Allen, D.G., Renn, R.W., &amp;amp; Moffitt, K.R. (2008). Should I stay or should I go: The role of risk in employee turnover decisions. Human Relations, 61 , 1531-1563. Otondo, R.F., Van Scotter, J.R., Allen, D.G. &amp;amp; Palvia, P. (2008). The complexity of richness: Media, message, and communication outcomes. Information and Management, 45 , 21-30. Allen, D.G., Mahto, R., &amp;amp; Otondo, R.F. (2007). Web-based recruitment: Effects of information, organizational brand, and attitudes toward a Web site on applicant attraction. Journal of Applied Psychology, 92 , 1696-1708. Allen, D.G., Renn, R.W., Moffitt, K.R., &amp;amp; Vardaman, J.M. (2007). Risky business: The role of risk in voluntary turnover decisions. Human Resource Management Review, 17 , 305-318. Maertz, C.P., Griffeth, R.W., Campbell, N.S., &amp;amp; Allen, D.G. (2007). The effects of perceived organizational support and perceived supervisor support on employee turnover. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 28 , 1059-1075. Allen, D.G. (2006). Do organizational socialization tactics influence newcomer embeddedness and turnover? Journal of Management, 32 , 237-256. Griffeth, R.W., Allen, D.G., &amp;amp; Barrett, R. (2006). Integration of family-owned business succession with turnover and life cycle models: Development of a successor retention process model. Human Resource Management Review, 16 , 490-507. Renn, R.W., Allen, D.G., Fedor, D.B., &amp;amp; Davis, W.D. (2005). The roles of personality and self-defeating behaviors in self-management failure. Journal of Management, 31 , 659-679. Allen, D.G., Weeks, K.P., &amp;amp; Moffitt, K.R. (2005). Turnover intentions and voluntary turnover: The moderating roles of self-monitoring, locus of control, proactive personality, and risk aversion. Journal of Applied Psychology, 90 , 980-990. Griffeth, R.W., Steel, R.P., Allen, D.G., &amp;amp; Bryan, N. (2005). The development of a multidimensional measure of job market cognitions: The Employment Opportunity Index. Journal of Applied Psychology, 90 , 335-349. Allen, D.G., Van Scotter, J.R., and Otondo, R.F. (2004). Recruitment communication media: Impact on pre-hire outcomes. Personnel Psychology, 57 , 143-171. Hayton, J.C., Allen, D.G., and Scarpello, V. (2004). Factor retention decisions in exploratory factor analysis: A tutorial on parallel analysis.&amp;nbsp; Organizational Research Methods, 7 , 191-205. Allen, D.G., Renn, R.W., and Griffeth, R.W. (2003). The impact of telecommuting design on social systems, self-regulation, and role boundaries. In J. Martocchio and G. Ferris (Eds.), Research in Personnel and Human Resources Management (Vol. 22, pp. 125-163). Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. Allen, D.G., Shore, L.M., and Griffeth, R.W. (2003). The role of perceived organizational support and supportive human resource practices in the turnover process. Journal of Management, 29 , 99-118. * Selected for a Society for Human Resource Management Research Translation (Feb, 2004). Allen, D.G. and Griffeth, R.W. (2001). Test of a mediated performance-turnover relationship highlighting the moderating roles of visibility and reward contingency. Journal of Applied Psychology, 86, 1014-1021.&amp;nbsp; Allen, D.G., and Griffeth, R.W. (1999). Job performance and turnover: A review and integrative multi-route model. Human Resource Management Review, 9 , 525-548.&amp;nbsp; Aquino, K., Grover, S., Bradfield, M., &amp;amp; Allen, D.G. (1999). The effects of negative affectivity, hierarchical status, and self-determination on workplace victimization. Academy of Management Journal, 42 , 260-272.&amp;nbsp; Allen, D.G. &amp;amp; Griffeth, R.W. (1997). Vertical and lateral information processing: The effects of gender, employee classification level, and media richness on communication and work outcomes. Human Relations, 50, 1239-1260.&amp;nbsp; Aquino, K., Griffeth, R.W., Allen, D.G., &amp;amp; Hom, P.W. (1997). An integration of justice constructs into the turnover process: Test of a referent cognitions model. Academy of Management Journal, 40 , 1208-1227.&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp; Faculty Welcome Programs Courses Faculty PhD Students Research Contact Us MGMT News &amp; Events Learn about current events happening in our department! Research Colloquia Keep up with the latest Management academic research in our upcoming seminars. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .