#http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/students/records/verify.php
Degree or Enrollment Verification - Registrar - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty &amp; Staff Forms Students Students Enrollment Verification Grades Overview GPA and Grading Scale Grade Change Transcripts Overview Official Unofficial Lambuth University FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA Notification Release of Student Education Record Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Self Service Guides Home Registrar Students Degree or Enrollment Verification Degree or Enrollment Verification Do you need proof that you are enrolled at the University of Memphis or that you have earned a degree from the University of Memphis? Read the following to find out what your options are. Enrollment Verification You have two basic options: (1) you can refer the organization (employer, legal association, medical association, insurance company, etc.) that needs the enrollment verification to the National Student Clearinghouse , or (2) you can request the verification yourself from the Clearinghouse. Referring Organizations to the Clearinghouse Organizations may obtain this information from the Clearinghouse in the following ways: Table 1: Referring Organizations to the Clearinghouse Web: Information is available from this site 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Mail: The National Student Clearinghouse 2191 Fox Mill Road, Suite 300 Herndon, VA 20171-3242 Email: service@studentclearinghouse.org Phone: 703.742.4200 FAX: 703.742.4239 Requesting the Verification Yourself You can use the Clearinghouse's Student Self-Service Site to print your information. However, you may use this approach only if you attended the University in the Spring 2001 term or later. If you attended UofM prior to January 2001, or if you are not enrolled at least half-time and considered half-time by your academic program (e.g., non-credit internship or dissertation), you will have to request the information in another manner (see below) . Using the Clearinghouse's Self-Service Site for Enrollment Verification Go to the University of Memphis' Clearinghouse Login page . This page opens in a new browser window. You will be asked to supply two pieces of information: your UofM Username (aka, UUID or Universal User ID) and your Password. (These are the same pieces of information you use to login to the portal or to login to iAM to "manage your digital identity" at the University.) Now click the "Login" button. If you meet the above criteria and have entered your information correctly, you will be identified to the Clearinghouse as a valid UofM student. A new browser window opens--the Clearinghouse Self-Service page with your information. Once you reach the Self-Service page, you may perform any of the following--free of charge: Print a certificate of enrollment that you can forward to any organization requiring proof of your enrollment. View enrollment information that may have been provided to a student services provider. View the electronic notifications and deferment forms that have been sent to any lenders, service providers, or guarantors. View a list of your lenders and link to real-time student loan information detail, such as outstanding principal balance and the next payment due-date that some lenders provide. When you are finished viewing/printing your information, close the browser window with your information. What happened? I got an error message. You will receive this message if your login was unsuccessful: You used an incorrect UUID or Password. If you are unsure of this login information, call the IT Helpdesk at 678.8888. This can mean one of two things: either (1) you are not eligible to use the web method because you last attended the University before January 2001, or (2) you did not enter your Username and Password correctly. The Information Technology Helpdesk can give you information on determining, activating, or reestablishing your User Name/Password information as needed. Other Ways of Requesting Enrollment Verification Yourself If you are unable to use the web to obtain your verification information, try requesting the information through one of these means: Table 2: Requesting Information Yourself Web: Use Student Self Service; follow these instructions . In Person: Go to 003 Wilder Tower and complete a Verification Request form. Email: Send a request to the Registrar with the information listed below. Phone: 901.678.2810 FAX: 901.678.1425 In any request, be prepared to provide the following information: Type of Request: Degree Verification or Enrollment Verification Your Name Your U-Number (or the last 4 digits of your SSN) The name and mailing address, or FAX number, of the organization to receive the verification Your graduation date (for Degree Verification) or your anticipated graduation date (for Enrollment Verification), if the organization requires this If you are not enrolled at least half-time (6 hours undergraduate or 4.5 hours graduate), please indicate on your request the special circumstances that would qualify you to be considered half-time (e.g., internship). Note : If the Enrollment Verification is for an insurance company, you may request it before the first day of classes. However, if the Enrollment Verification is for a loan company, you may not request it until classes have started. Please allow 48 business hours for your verification to be processed and sent. Degree Verification If an institution or organization needs a Degree Verification for you, refer that entity to the National Student Clearinghouse (see Table 1 above). Organizations may request Degree Verifications from the Clearinghouse; students may not. Students Students Enrollment Verification Grades Overview GPA and Grading Scale Grade Change Transcripts Overview Official Unofficial Lambuth University FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA Notification Release of Student Education Record Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Self Service Guides Calendars Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams. Notice! Check for alerts and reminders. Contact Us Have questions? Need assistance or information? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .