#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/getinvolved/outoftown/dallas.php
Dallas Club - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About Get Involved Academic Chapters Arts &amp; Sciences School of Law CEHHS Communication Sciences &amp; Disorders FCBE Engineering International MBA Journalism Kemmons Wilson School School of Nursing Masters of Public Administration Music Professional MBA University College Constituent Groups Band Frosh Camp Half Century Hispanic Alumni Lambuth Luther C. McClellan Memphis Pom UMAR Young Alumni Out of Town Atlanta Chicago Dallas Denver Houston Indianapolis Minneapolis Nashville New England New Orleans New York Orlando/Tampa San Francisco St. Louis Washington, DC Student Groups Future Alumni of Memphis Student Ambassador Board Scholarships Pouncer's Pals Home UMAA Get Involved Dallas Club Dallas Alumni Club The Dallas/Fort Worth Alumni Chapter is now on Facebook ! Stay up-to-date on local chapter events and stories of interest from the Memphis campus. All alumni, friends and Tiger fans are welcome to join this group. Recent Events Miami Beach Bowl Watch Party Dallas Alumni cheered on our Tigers to victory against the BYU Cougars on December 22! Memphis Tigers at SMU Mustangs Dallas Alumni cheered on our Tigers on Saturday, October 25 at Gerald J. Ford Stadium. President's National Listening Tour Dallas Alumni and friends were invited to join in on the conversation with the 12th President of the University of Memphis, Dr. M. David Rudd on October 23 at the home of Eric and Deb Suder. Dr. Rudd toured the nation to hear what matters most as he shapes his visions for the University of Memphis. Hungry Tiger Buffet in Dallas The Dallas Alumni Chapter and the UofM Alumni Association met for lunch at the Red, Hot &amp; Blue and then cheered on our Memphis Tigers took on the SMU Mustangs on February 1. BBQ Dinner Pre-Game Event "The Hungry Tiger Buffet" tradition continued as the Dallas Alumni Club gathered at Red, Hot &amp; Blue in February before our Tigers took on the SMU Mustangs. Click here to view photos of the event. Tiger Tailgate in Texas Tiger fans in the Dallas area met before the football game at SMU for a tailgate featuring BBQ and all the fixins. Click here to view photos of the event. Tiger Basketball Watch Parties Tiger fans in the Dallas area met at Blackfinn in Addison in December and February to cheer on our Tigers. Thanks to everyone who attended! Texas Tigers Scholarship The Dallas Alumni Club is re-launching their scholarship drive for the Texas Tigers Scholarship Fund. The Dallas Alumni Club has combined efforts with the Houston Alumni Club to create an endowed scholarship for Texas-based students to attend the University of Memphis. Thanks to True Blue Texas Tigers, $15,000 towards the goal of $30,000 has been raised! Please consider the University of Memphis Alumni Association and the Texas Tigers Scholarship as part of your 2014 annual giving plan. To learn more, contact the Alumni Association at alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 800/678-TRAX. Get Involved! Watch this video by President Gary Crooms ('81), recorded at Vision Forum 2014, to learn more about the Dallas Alumni Club and how you can get involved! For more information or to get involved in the Dallas Alumni Club, contact Alumni Coordinator Kollin Falk at kjfalk@memphis.edu or 800-678-TRAX (8729). Chapter Leadership: President: Gary Crooms ('81), texastigers@gmail.com Get Involved Academic Chapters Arts &amp; Sciences School of Law CEHHS Communication Sciences &amp; Disorders FCBE Engineering International MBA Journalism Kemmons Wilson School School of Nursing Masters of Public Administration Music Professional MBA University College Constituent Groups Band Frosh Camp Half Century Hispanic Alumni Lambuth Luther C. McClellan Memphis Pom UMAR Young Alumni Out of Town Atlanta Chicago Dallas Denver Houston Indianapolis Minneapolis Nashville New England New Orleans New York Orlando/Tampa San Francisco St. Louis Washington, DC Student Groups Future Alumni of Memphis Student Ambassador Board Scholarships Pouncer's Pals Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .