#http://www.memphis.edu/iso/tax/canada.php
Tax Treaty Info for Nationals of Canada - ISO - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. International Student Office (ISO) Students Tax Information Insurance Employment Tips Social Security/Income Tax Information Social Security Information Home ISO Social Security/Income Tax Information Tax Treaty Info for Nationals of Canada Tax Treaty Info for Nationals of Canada The U.S.-Canada tax treaty contains no specific benefits for either students or visiting scholars who are residents of Canada . The treaty does, however, contain several general provisions that will apply to some students and scholars from Canada and which a few may find beneficial. 1) Article XV of the U.S.-Canada tax treaty applies to Canadian residents who had less than $10,000 of earned income in the U.S. in the calendar year. This article provides that: 2. ...remuneration derived by a [Canadian resident] in respect of employment exercised in a calendar year in [the United States ] shall be taxable only in [ Canada ] if: (a) Such remuneration does not exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000) in the currency of [the United States ]... Thus if you had less than $10,000 in earned income from U.S. sources in a calendar year, you may exclude this income from federal income tax in the U.S. by claiming Article XV of the U.S.-Canada tax treaty when you file Form 1040NR-EZ, or Form 1040NR. To claim this provision of the U.S.-Canada tax treaty on Form 1040NR-EZ, write "0" on page 1, Line 3 Write the amount of your earned income for the year ( which must be less than $10,000, of course ) on page 1, Line 6, "Total wages and scholarships exempt by a treaty from page 2, Item J." On page 2, Item J, indicate both the dollar amount from line 6 on page one, and also write "earned income less than $10,000, Article XV, US - Canada Tax Treaty" To claim this provision of the U.S.-Canada tax treaty on Form 1040NR, write "0" on page 1, Line 8. Write the amount of your earned income for the year (which must be less than $10,000, of course) on page 1, Line 22, "Total income exempt by a treaty from page 5, Item M." On page 5, Item M, claim the tax treaty for " Canada ," and write the amount of your earned income (i.e. the same amount you wrote on page 1, Line 22). After the amount write "earned income less than $10,000, Article XV." 2) The U.S.-Canada tax treaty allows you to deduct from your gross income contributions that you made to Canadian as well as to U.S. charities. Include any such contributions as itemized deductions on page 3 of Form 1040NR. (If you wish to claim deductions for charitable contributions you must use Form 1040NR; you may not use Form 1040NR-EZ for this purpose.. Social Security/Income Tax Information Social Security Information FAQs Got a question? Links of Interest More information for International Students Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .