#http://www.memphis.edu/nrotc/future-students/2year-scholarship-program.php
2 year NROTC Scholarship Program - Naval ROTC - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps Future Students Current Students Naval Science Crosstown Agreements Future Student Resources New Student Orientation About NSO Midshipmen Knowledge Handbook Summer Workout Plan NROTC Navy for Moms Website NROTC Program Eligibility Requirements 4 Year NROTC Scholarship Program 2 Year NROTC Scholarship Program College Program Naval Science Courses Home Naval ROTC Future Students 2 year NROTC Scholarship Program National Two-Year Scholarship General Recipients of a National Two-Year Scholarship are selected through a national competition from non-College Program applicants who meet the eligibility criteria and have at least two years of academic study remaining toward a baccalaureate degree. Those selected are appointed MIDN U.S. Navy or Marine Corps Reserve upon reporting for enrollment in the NROTC advanced course. They qualify for enrollment in the Advanced Course by successfully completing Naval Science Institute (NSI). Students enrolled as Two-Year Scholarship Program students have the same privileges and obligations as those enrolled in the Four-Year Scholarship Program. Application To be considered for a National Two-Year Scholarship, individuals need to submit applications through The University of Memphis NROTC unit no later than January of the year prior to their next to last year of school (second year in a four-year program/third year in a five year program). Eligibility Requirements To be eligible for enrollment in the Two-Year Scholarship Program, an applicant must meet the general midshipman requirements specified above ( NROTC Program Eligibility Requirements ) and the following additional requirements: Have completed at least two full academic years of college and have a cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA) of 2.5 or better; Be accepted for matriculation as a junior (third year in a four-year program/fourth year in a five-year program) at The University of Memphis, Christian Brother University, or Rhodes College; and Except for Marine Option, Nurse Corps Program, or College Program applicants, have completed or be close to completing one year (two semesters or three-quarters) of differential and integral calculus (approved sequence) of one real variable with grades of “C” or better in each course. Marine Option applicants must have one of the following minimum test scores: 21 - ACT (composite), 1000 - SAT (math and critical reading combined), or 74 - Armed Forces Qualification Test (AFQT). Are not enrolled in the College Program. Students taking Naval Science courses but not enrolled in the College Program are eligible to apply for the Two-Year Scholarship Program. Naval Science Institute Those selected for a Two-Year Scholarship will receive orders to report to the Naval Science Institute (NSI) at Officer Training Command (OTC) in June, after completion of their sophomore year of college (or after the third year of a five-year curriculum). NSI is a six-week course of instruction in Naval Science and drills which is similar to that required of NROTC students during their freshman and sophomore years. While at NSI, students will receive the pay of Officer Candidate (equivalent to an E-5 less than two years), uniforms, room and board. An individual will not be allowed to proceed to their NROTC unit without successful completion of NSI. Future Student Resources New Student Orientation About NSO Midshipmen Knowledge Handbook Summer Workout Plan NROTC Navy for Moms Website NROTC Program Eligibility Requirements 4 Year NROTC Scholarship Program 2 Year NROTC Scholarship Program College Program Naval Science Courses Tiger Cruise Newsletter Read about events, stories of leadership, honor, courage and commitment Beale Street Drill Meet Endurance Challenge to build small unit leadership, cohesion, and morale. Contact Us &amp; Location Main office and location. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .