#http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/people/faculty/cvs/jiang_9_2015.pdf
!! Xu (Lilya) Jiang , PhD CONTACT INFORMATION University of Memphis Department of Psychology 306 Psychology Building Memphis TN 38152 Email: xjiang2 @memphis.edu Office Phone: (901) 678 -4473 Fax: (901) 678 -2579 ACADEMIC APPOINTMENT Aug. 2015 — present Assistant Professor of Psychology Department of Psychology University of Memphis EDUCATION Aug. 2012 – Aug. 2015 Doctor of Philosophy, Department of Psychology University of South Carolina , Columbia, SC, USA Program: School Psychology (APA and NASP/NCATE Accredited ) Aug. 2009 – Aug. 2012 Masters of Arts, Department of Psychology University of South Carolina , Columbia, SC, USA Program: School Psychology Sept. 2005 – Jun. 2009 Bachelor of Science, School of Psychology Beijing Normal University, Beijing, P.R. China Major: Psychology RESEARCH INTERESTS • Children and adolescent social -emotional well -being • Characteristics, antecedents and outcomes of psychological strengths in youths, such as hope, social problem solving, optimism, and self -regulation • Parent -child interaction and relationships, and their impact on positive youth development • Cross -cultural r esearch PUBLICATIONS Peer-Reviewed Journals Kosher, H., Jiang, X. , Ben -Arieh, A., & Huebner, E. S. (2014). Advances in children’s rights and well-being in schools: Implications for school psychologists. School Psychology Quarterly , 29(1): 7 -20. DOI: 10 .1037/spq0000051 Jiang, X. , Kosher, H., Ben -Arieh, A., & Huebner, E. S. (2014). Children’s rights, school psychology, and well -being assessments. Social Indicator Research , 17(1):179 -193. DOI: 10.1007/s11205 -013-0343-6 Jiang Page 2 !!!Jiang, X. , Huebner, E. S., & Hills, K. J. (2013). Parental attachment and adolescents’ life satisfaction: The Mediation Mechanism of Hope. Psychology in Schools , 50(4):340 -352. DOI: 10.1002/pits.21680 Jiang, X. , Huebner, E. S., & Siddall, J. ( 2013). A short -term longitudinal study of differential sources of school -related social support and adolescents’ school satisfaction. Social Indicator Research , 114(3): 1073-1086. DOI: 10.1007/s11205 -012-0190-x Siddall, J., Huebner, E. S., & Jiang, X. (2013). A prospective study of differential s ources of school -related social support and adolescent global life satisfaction. American Journal of Orthopsychiatry , 83(1): 107 -114. DOI: 10.1111/ajop.12006 Jiang, X. , & Wei, X. (2009). The absence of school psychologists and the demand for this role in China. Journal of Chinese Special Education , 110(8): 90 -96. Jin, X., Shu, H., Jiang, X. , & Zhai, J. (2008). Factors underlying difference in occurrence rate for subtypes of cross -language dyslexia, Journal of Beijing Normal University (Natural science) , 44(3): 234- 237. Book Chapters Huebner, E. S., Hills, K. J., & Jiang, X. (2013). Assessment and promotion of life satisfaction in youth. In: C. Proctor, & P. A. Linley (Eds.), Research, applications and interventions for children and adolescents: a positive psychology perspective (pp.23-42). Dordrecht, the Netherlands: Springer. Huebner, E. S., Hills, K. J., Jiang, X. , Long, R. F., Kelly, R., & Lyons, M. (2013). Schooling and children’s subjective well -being. In: A. Ben -Arieh, F. Casas, I. Frones, & J. Korbin, (Eds.), Handbook of child well -being (pp.797-819). Dordrecht, Netherlands: Springer. Submitted manuscript Jiang, X. , Huebner, E. S., Hills, K., Fairchild, A., & Valois, R . F. ( under review ). Adolescents’ Parental Attachment, Social Problem Solving, and Life Satisfaction: A Longitudinal Study. Social Indicator Research . Book chapter in preparation Jiang, X. , Otis, K., Weber, M., & Huebner, E. S. ( in preparation ). Hope and Adolescent Mental Health. In: M. W. Gallagher, & S. J. Lopez. (Eds.), Handbook of Hope. Oxford University Press PROFESSIONAL PRESENTATIONS Wang, C., Jiang, X. , Yang, C., & Furlong, M. (2015 , September ). Initial validation of the social emotional health survey -primary in a Chinese sample. Paper to be presented at the 9th World Congress on the Promotion of Mental Health and the Prevention of Mental and Behavioural Disorders, Columbia, SC. Jiang, X. , Huebner, E. S., Hills, K., Furlong, M., Suldo, S. M., Hearon, B., Roth, R., McCarty, S., Doll, B. (2015, February). Recent Advances in Positive Psychology: Translating Research to Practice. Symposium presented at the annual convention of the National Association of School Psychologists, Orlando, FL. Jiang Page 3 !!!Jiang, X. , Huebner, E. S., Hills, K., Fairchild, A., & Valois, R. F. (2014, August, September ). Adolescents’ Parental Attachment, Social Problem Solving, and Life Satisfaction: A Longitudinal Study . Poster presented at the annual convention of the American Psychological Association, Washington, D.C. and paper presented in the Annie E. Casey Foundation Mentoring Workshop for Recent Ph.Ds and Ph.D Students in Child Well -being, Baltimore, MD. Jiang, X. , Siddall, J., Weber, M., Hills, K., Lyons, M., Oti s, K., Harzer, C., & Tian, L. (2014, February). Incorporating positive psychological assessment in school psychologists’ practice . Mini -skill training session presented at the annual convention of the National Association of School Psychologists, Washingto n, D.C. Jiang, X. , Huebner, S., & Hills, K. (2014, February). The role of social problem solving in adolescents’ life satisfaction . Poster presented at the annual convention of the National Association of School Psychologists, Washington, D.C. and at the 3 1st Multicultural Symposium at the University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC. Lili, T., Liu, W., & Jiang, X. (2013, September). Practical application of positive psychology in schools in China. Paper presented at the bi-annual conference of the South Car olina Association of School Psychologists, Columbia, SC. Bird, J., Jiang, X. , Kelly, R., & Brown, C. (2013, February). Enhancing transitional support systems for youth in alternative school settings. Participant information exchange session presented at the annual convention of the National Association of School Psychologists, Seattle, WA. Jiang, X. , Huebner, E. S., & Siddall, J. (2013, February). A longitudinal study of social support and adolescents’ school satisfaction . Paper presented at the annual convention of the National Association of School Psychologists, Seattle, WA. Kelly, R., Jiang, X. , Bird, J., Lyons, M., Huebner, E. S., Hills, K. J., & McQuillin, S. (2013, February). Advances in positive psychology: Basic science, assessment and intervent ion research . Symposium presented at the annual convention of the National Association of School Psychologists, Seattle, WA. Huebner, E. S. , Tian, L., Jiang, X. , Siddall, J., & Hills, K. (2012, March). School social climate and children’s positive subjecti ve well -being. Paper presented at the 4th Greenville Family Symposium, Greenville, SC. Jiang, X. , Huebner, E. S. (2012, February). Promoting Chinese immigrant youth’ emotional well -being through social problem solving. Poster presented at the annual convention of the National Association of School Psychologists, Philadelphia, PA. Lyons, M., Jiang, X. , Kelly, R., Hills, K. & Huebner, E. S. (2011, August). Adolescents’ positive mental health: variable - and person - centered research approaches. Poster pr esented at the annual convention of the American Psychology Association, Washington. D.C. Huebner, E. S., Hills, K.J., Jiang, X. , Kelly, R., Long, R., Lyons, M., & Gilman, R. (2011, April). Children’s subjective well -being and schooling: a synthesis of the literature with implications for school professionals . Poster presented at the 3 rd Greenville Family Symposium, Greenville, SC. Lyons, M., Jiang, X. , Kelly, R., Long, R., Ulishney, R., Hills, K. J., & Huebner, E. S. (2010, October). Child and adolescent s ubjective well -being . Poster presented at the bi -annual meeting of the South Carolina Association of School Psychologists, Columbia, SC. Jiang Page 4 !!!Jiang, X. , Fang, L., Hills, K. J., & Huebner, E. S. (2010, July). Understanding parenting and optimal adolescent psycho logical well -being from a cross -cultural perspective: a literature review with implications for practice and research . Poster presented at the 32 nd annual conference of the International School Psychology Association, Dublin, Ireland. Jiang, X. (2008, July ). Development of school psychology in the United States and its application to China. Poster presented at the 1 st annual conference of the Chinese School Psychology Association, Hangzhou, China. GRANTS, AWARDS AND HONORS Selected s cholar to present at a Mentoring Workshop for Recent Ph.Ds and Ph.Ds students in child well -being; recipient of travel award and stipend granted by the International Society for Child Indicators (ISCI) and the Annie E. Casey Foundation The 1 st Multicultural Symposium Poster Session Award at the 31 st Multicultural Symposium at the University of South Carolina 2014 2014 The American Psychological Association Student Travel Award 2014 The South Carolina Association of School Psychology (SCASP) Research Grant ($1000) 2012 The University of South Carolina School Psychology Provost Thesis Award 2012 The American Psychological Association Division 16 Outstanding Student Scholarship Award 2011 The University of South Carolina College of Arts and Sciences Travel Award 2010 The University of South Carolina Psychology Departmental Travel Award 2010, 2012, 2013, 2014 TEACHING EXPERIENCE Course Instructor , Psychological Consultation (PSYC 7805/8805) Department of Psychology, University of Memphis, Memphis, TN • Responsible for all components of teaching including the preparation and administration of lectures, selection of reading materials and assignments, construction and scoring of examinations and other grading procedures, and the assignment of course grades. Train school psychology students to provide school -based consultation. Aug 2015 — present Teaching Assistant , Introduction of Psychology (PSYC 101) Department of Psychology, University of S outh Carolina, Columbia, SC • Taught two recitation sessions weekly, including delivering review lectures and managing a varie ty of activities ( small-group discussions, large -group discussions, hand -on games, role plays, and watching television shows and doc umentaries ). • Graded assignments, maintained course grade records, and proctored exams. Jan 2014 – May 2014 Teaching Assistant , Quantitative Methods in the Analysis of Behavioral Data II (PSYC 710) Department of Psychology, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC Jan 2013 – May 2013 Jiang Page 5 !!!• Taught weekly discussion session to instruct students in using statistical software package SPSS to run different analysis. • Graded assignments, proctored exams, maintained course grade records, and assisted graduate students with methodology in their final projects. Teaching Assistant , Quantitative Methods in the Analysis of Behavioral Data I (PSYC 709) Department of Psychology, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC • Taught weekly lecture review and software (SAS) learning sessions. • Served as the lecturer on two topics. • Graded assignments, proctored exams, and maintained course grade records, and assisted graduate students with final projects. Aug 2012 – Dec 2012 Teaching Assistant , Psychological Statistics (PSYC 227) Department of Psychology, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC • Taugh t one weekly discussion session. Instructed students in using statistical knowledge to solve problems. • Graded assignments, proctored exams, maintained course g rade records, and assisted students with final projects. Aug 2009 – May 2012 Guest Lecturer, Developmental Psychology (PSYC 420) Department of Psychology, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC • Gave a lecture on cultural difference in parenting and youth development and led the discussion Nov 2013, Mar 2014 CLINICAL EXPERIENCES Pre-doctoral Psychology Intern Tennessee Inter nship Consortium in Psychology (APA -accredited) , Knoxville, TN Korn Learning, Assessment, & Social Skills Center (KLASS) at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN • Provide d psychological services to children, adolescents and college students with academic, behavioral, and social -emotional difficulties. Conducted comprehensive psycho -educational evaluations and provided feedback to parents/clients. Supervisor s: Brian Wilhoit, Ph.D , Carolyn Blondin, Ph.D Public Schools and Cherokee Behavioral Health Clinic , Morristown, TN • Conduct ed initial psychological evaluations. Complete d re-evaluations of students previously diagnose d with a variety of difficulties. Wrot e psycho -educational reports and intervention plan. Participate d in the RTI team training and decision making process. Assist ed the implementation of school -wide RTI. • Conduct ed observations and provide d consultation in multiple Head Start Programs which primarily serve families with low SES status in rural East Tennessee area. • Provide d social skill group training on weekly basis to children and adolescents who have skill weakness in social areas. Collab orated with other TIC interns in the process of consultation with parents, development of intervention plan, implementation of the plan, and documentation of intervention progress. Supervisors: Angie Allman, Ph.D.; Kristin Mahoney, Ph.D.; Rhiannon Ducey, P h.D. Aug 2014 –Jul 2015 Jiang Page 6 !!!Psychological Consultant Pine Grove Inc, Elgin, SC • Provided psychological services in a residential treatment facility for children with severe mental disabilities, autism, and other low -incidence developmental disabilities, such as Down syndrome, Fragile X Syndrome, Fetal Alcohol Syndrome and Tuberous Sclerosis. Conducted functional behavioral assessments and facilitate d meetings with behavioral therapists and supervisors to create the Individual Behavioral Care Plan (IBCP) for individual students, addressing communication, social -emotional, and adaptive b ehavior goals. Provided weekly social skill training to a group of adolescent girls with moderate intellectual disabilities. • Provided consultation to behavioral therapists, teachers, and administrators to develop interventions for maladaptive behaviors (e.g., tantrum behavior, noncompliance, aggression, and self -injurious behavior). Designed and provided training for new behavioral therapists and mont hly staff development training . The topics included behavioral modification principles, visual schedules, self -injurious behaviors and suicide, grief and loss, and low -incidence developmental disabilities and comorbidity. Supervisor: Richard Nagle, Ph.D Aug 2013 – May 2014 , Aug 2012 – May 2013 Advanced School Psychology Practicum S tudent USC School of Medicine Developmental Pediatric Clinic, Columbia, SC • Provided psychological evaluation services to children with complex medical, behavioral, and educational needs under supervision. Specific disorders encountered include autism, learning disability, attention difficulties, anxiety disorders, and other concerns. Worked with a multidisciplina ry team that included developmental pediatricians, speech language pathologists, social workers, nurses, and psychologists. Supervisor: Mark Posey, Ph.D Aug 2012 – Dec 2012 School Psychology Practicum S tudent Richland School District Two, High School, Columbia, SC • Provided psychological evaluations for students with referrals of learning, behavioral, and emotional difficulties. Served students who are predominantly from African American s families with low socio -economic status. Conducted collaborative behavioral consultations with both special education teachers and regular education teachers. Provided weekly intervention s for a student with learning disability and weekly individual counseling sessions for a student with post -trauma and depression symptoms. • Developed a system intervention project collaboratively with three other graduate students. The goal was to improve t he quality of service in the transition between home schoo ls and the alternative school. Completed the needs assessment procedure and delivered an in -service presentation during the faculty me eting in the alternative school. Field supervisor: Lisa McClime nt, Psy.S University Supervisor: Kimberly Hills, Ph.D Aug 2011 – May 2012 Richland School District Two, Elementary School, Columbia, SC • Provided assessments to preschool and elementary school students with mental disabilities, learning disabilities and developmental delays. Served students with diver se racial and ethnic backgrounds . Jan 2011 – May 2011 Jiang Page 7 !!!• Provided academic intervention to students with learning disability in math, behavioral consultation to special education teachers. Assisted in universal screening and progr ess monitoring using the Dynamic Indicators of Basic Early Literacy Skills (DIBELS). Field Supervisors: Vanessa Bordwine, Ph.D, Carolyn Traylor, Ph.D University Supervisor: Kimberly Hills, Ph.D Lexington School District Five , Middle S chool, Irmo, SC • Assisted evaluation for middle school student s with a variety of difficulties or needs. Provided weekly individual academic intervention s to a student with le arning disability in reading. Assisted weekly group academic intervention s to over twenty African American adolescents in an after -school program. Applied behavioral management strategies to increase students’ motivation and positive behaviors. Field Supervisor: Gale Elmore, Ph. D University Supervisor: Kimberly Hills, Ph.D Aug 2010 – Dec 2010 Psychological Services Center, University of South Carolina , Columbia, SC Parent Consultation • Provided consultation to an immigrant family from China with a 7 - year -old boy who had previously been diagnosed as autistic. Conducted add itional tests in both English and Chinese to obtain the information needed for intervention planning. Completed multiple home visits to do observations and have interviews with the father and the ABA therapists. Provided three sessions of psycho -education consultations, modeling behavioral management techniques for the parent. Used phone calls to follow up and obtained feedback. Supervisor: Mark Weist, Ph.D Nov 2012 – Jan 2013 Pre -School Assessment • Evaluated the psycho -educational and psycho -social functioning of one of the 4 - year - old twin sisters for a gift -child referral. Compared and discussed the evaluation process and results between the twins with another evaluator and the supervisor. Provided parent feedback with another evaluator and the supervisor. Supervisor: Kimberly Hills, Ph.D Nov 2010 – Jan 2011 Academic Intervention • Collaborated with two other practicum students to provide an academic intervention for a middle school student with learning disability in math. Wrote a report with recommendations that are feasible to apply at home and wi thin school setting. Provided feedback to the parent. Supervisor: Scott Decker, Ph.D OTHER NON -PRACTICUM FEILD EXPERIENCE Research Assistant and Trainer Arnold School of Public Health, University of South Carolina PI: Sarah Rothenberg, Ph.D Research Project: Maternal Methylmercury Exposure through Rice Ingestion and Offspring Development • Translated the Bayley Scales of Infant and Toddler Development, the manual and Aug 2011 – Dec 2011 May 2013 – Aug 2013 Jiang Page 8 !!!supplemental materials (from English to Chinese). Provided staff training for health professionals in two hospitals in Guangxi, China. The topics included early childhood development, theoretical ba ckground of measuring infant and child development, and Bayley administration. PROFESSIONAL MEMBERSHIPS Member Affiliate The Association for Psychological Science The International School Psychology Association The National Association of School Psychologists The American Psychological Association, Division 16 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES Co-Chair The positive psychology interest group in the National Association of School Psychologists Feb 2014 – present Co-Chair The diversity and technology committee at the Tennessee Internship Consortium in Psychology Aug 2014 — Jul 2015 Past Co -Chair The future faculty interest group in the National Association of School Psychologists Feb 2014 – Feb 2015 Proposal Reviewer The 2014 annual convention of the National Association of School Psychologists Jul 201 3