#http://www.memphis.edu/law/about/neighborhoods.php
Neighborhoods - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library About Administration &amp; Staff History Virtual Tour ABA Disclosures Diversity Diversity Home TIP Student Diversity Committee Scholarships Facilities Facilities Overview Virtual Tour Floor Plans Photo Gallery News &amp; Events Law School News Faculty News On Legal Grounds Blog ML-Memphis Law Magazine Events Calendar Communications Office Directions Contact Media Resource General Contact Info Faculty &amp; Staff Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Home School of Law About Neighborhoods NEIGHBORHOODS &amp; COMMUNITIES Variety, as they say, is the spice of life, and Memphis has gotta be one of the spiciest cities around. Variety can be found throughout the city: From the towering trees in Shelby Forest and Overton Park to the metal towers in metropolitan downtown, the Memphis area offers everything you could want and more. Variety can be found not only in the landscaping, history, and music of the city but also in the character of each neighborhood: Each has its own personality that distinguishes it from all the others. This is a brief peek at several of our neighborhood communities. You may want to visit the county's neighborhood directory to help you discover the perfect place to call home. Downtown Downtown is one of the most eclectic, diverse, and exciting places around, not to mention the home of Memphis Law. With a range of entertainment options that includes all types of music, art, theater, and dance, downtown is a fascinating cultural hub. Famous Beale Street offers great food, cool drinks, and hot Memphis music. The history behind the influential area is preserved in a number of museums and historical spots. Downtown also has plenty of family friendly activities and entertainment. FedExForum attracts some of the most popular touring musical acts in the world, and the Memphis Grizzlies and University of Memphis Tigers Basketball team are great attractions for sports fans. Excitment in Downtown Memphis is just a short walk or trolley ride away. Downtown's prime riverside real estate is made up of several dynamic neighborhoods, including Harbor Town on Mud Island, South Bluffs, the South Main Historic Arts District, and the South End. Zip codes: 38103, 38104, and 38105 Miles from airport: 9 Population: 42,984 Average home prices: 38103: $223,479 38104: $174,868 38105: $60,084 Midtown Midtown is another great area full of eclectic atmospheres, cultural opportunities, and beautiful scenery. Historic Cooper-Young has excellent food, drink, and entertainment, including plenty of opportunities for live music at Young Avenue Deli, and the widest collection of indie movies at Black Lodge Video. Cooper-Young has almost every cultural opportunity a person could want. Overton Square is another area of Midtown that offers great food with places such as Bari Ristorante, Boscos Squared, Lafayette's, Golden India, Le Chardonnay, Babalu, Local Gastropub, Memphis Pizza Cafe, and the Bayou Bar and Grill. Overton Square is also home to the Malco movie theater Studio on the Square. Other places of note in Midtown include the Memphis Zoo, the Brooks Museum of Art, Memphis College of Art, the Levitt Shell and Overton Park and Golf Course. The University of Memphis main campus, Rhodes College, and Christian Brothers University also reside near Midtown. Midtown/Chickasaw Gardens Zip codes: 38111, 38112 Miles from airport: 6 Population: 60,409 Average home prices: 38111: $125,970 38112: $116,252 East Memphis East Memphis is a commercial and residential powerhouse. There are many thriving businesses and great shopping opportunities in this neighborhood, with the Laurelwood shopping center housing some of the upscale stores in the area, as does the nearby Regalia shopping center, with stores such as Vineyard Vines and Oak Hall. Surrounding boutiques, shops, and restaurants dot the area. With Audubon Park, the Memphis Botanic Garden, the Dixon Gallery and Gardens, and Lichterman Nature Center, there's no shortage of natural beauty and lovely surroundings in East Memphis. East Memphis Zip codes: 38117, 38119 and 38120 Miles from airport: 6 Population: 63,348 Average home prices: 38117: $199,417 38119: $160,197 38120: $308,105 To find out more about the neighborhoods in the Memphis community, including the suburban areas of Bartlett, Germantown, Collierville, Arlington and more, p lease CLICK HERE to learn more Sources: Tetrad, 2013 Population Estimates Chandler Reports, 2013 Average Home Prices Page Updated October 2014. About Administration &amp; Staff History Virtual Tour ABA Disclosures Diversity Diversity Home TIP Student Diversity Committee Scholarships Facilities Facilities Overview Virtual Tour Floor Plans Photo Gallery News &amp; Events Law School News Faculty News On Legal Grounds Blog ML-Memphis Law Magazine Events Calendar Communications Office Directions Contact Media Resource General Contact Info Faculty &amp; Staff Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .