#http://www.memphis.edu/drs/campusaccess/safety_unused.php
Safety and Emergency Evacuation for Persons with Disabilities - Disability Resources for Students - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Disability Resources for Students About Access Accommodations Technology Policies Career Programs Faculty Campus Access Public Transportation Access for Visually Impaired Parking Campus Housing Safety &amp; Evacuation Home Disability Resources for Students Campus Access Safety and Emergency Evacuation for Persons with Disabilities Safety and Emergency Evacuation for Persons with Disabilities While the University of Memphis strives to create a safe campus environment and has enacted policies and procedures to that end, including holding fire drills each semester, all students should assume responsibility for their personal safety by becoming familiar with their surroundings and by educating themselves on safety measures to use in the event of fire, earthquake or hazardous chemical spill. Students with disabilities should take note of all accessible exits in each building or residence hall they frequent, check the evacuation plans for each building, and plan a strategy for each building in the event of an emergency. Residence Life staff hold meetings in each housing facility to orient students to the specific procedures for their facility. It is the responsibility of students to attend these meetings to learn the procedures and to follow them. Emergency evacuation plans are posted in each building. In addition, DRS compiles a safety evacuation list each semester for each classroom building which includes the names of students who would need special assistance in an emergency and the time and location of their classes in each building. The list also includes the names and locations of students who live in residence halls who may need assistance in an emergency. Police Services (Main Campus and Lambuth Campus), Employee Safety and Health, and DRS keep a copy of the safety evacuation list for handy reference in the event of an emergency. After the last day to add classes, the safety evacuation list is compiled from students' schedules. If students drop a class or if a room number changes, they should notify DRS so the correction can be made to the list. This list works only if it is current and complete. General Considerations for Evacuation Do Not Use the Elevator during a fire or other emergency! If your disability is of a nature that permits you to evacuate with minor assistance from another person, ask for help and evacuate at the nearest illuminated exit. If you will be evacuating at a slower pace than the standard flow of traffic, it is generally best to wait until the bulk of the traffic has exited, unless you are in immediate danger. If you use a wheelchair and need to evacuate from a floor other than ground level, proceed to the nearest illuminated exit sign. In most cases, this will be an enclosed stairwell that can provide protection until rescue personnel arrive. When most of the traffic has cleared, enter the stairwell landing and wait for the Fire Department or Police Services personnel. Doors to the stairwell should be kept closed. The average response time for the Fire Department to arrive on campus is generally three to seven minutes, depending on the specific campus location. All stairwells are routinely checked by Fire Department personnel in emergency situations. Unless you are in immediate danger, do not allow untrained people to carry you down the steps. Doing so can present hazards of a different nature. In the event of immediate danger , if there is not time to wait for trained rescue personnel, be prepared in advance to explain to your helpers the best way for them to carry you to safety, depending on your personal circumstances. Remember that wheelchairs have many moveable parts and vulnerable points that are not constructed to withstand the stress of lifting. Depending on the nature of the emergency and how it is being controlled, the Fire Department may determine that you are not in any danger and need not evacuate. Only Fire Department personnel have authority to make such a decision. In some instances, Fire Department personnel may determine that is safe for you to be evacuated by elevator, but again, only Fire Department personnel have the authority to make this decision. Do not use the elevator for evacuation unless you are instructed by Fire Department personnel to do so. If you have a cell phone, you may wish to pre-program the UofM Police Services 901.678.HELP number (901.678.4357) into your phone; this is the same location you will reach if you call 911 from a campus phone. Campus Access Public Transportation Access for Visually Impaired Parking Campus Housing Safety &amp; Evacuation Contact DRS DRS Announcements Student and Faculty Awards Thanks to Our Volunteer Note-takers! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .