#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/herff/biomedical.php
Biomedical Engineering - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Biomedical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Biomedical Engineering is a broad field that encompasses many areas related to improving human health such as implant devices, tissue engineering/regeneration, electrophysiological signaling, and biosensors and imaging technologies for the prevention, detection, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases. The program integrates physical, chemical, mathematical, and computational sciences and engineering with biology and medicine. The curriculum is designed to prepare graduates for professional practice and to provide a foundation for lifelong learning and professional growth. The course of study begins with a strong foundation in mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, and engineering sciences. Departmental courses during these years build on these foundations to integrate topics into knowledge in biomedical engineering. The upper division years include a block of twenty-six hours (noted as BIOM, Engineering and Technical electives in the typical sequence below) to allow students, with advisor's assistance, the means to tailor study in a focused portion of the discipline and its supporting fields as desired. The elective hours must be upper division courses. Concepts and efforts in engineering design occur throughout the curriculum and culminate in a senior design project. The Biomedical Engineering Program at the University of Memphis aims to produce graduates who demonstrate the following within the first few years after graduation. Graduates: secure employment in biomedical or related health industries or institutions, pursue professional studies, pursue opportunities for professional growth, development, and service The Biomedical Engineering Faculty has adopted the following ABET Student Outcomes for engineering educational criteria "a" through "k," namely: (a) an ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering (b) an ability to design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret data (c) an ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety, manufacturability, and sustainability (d) an ability to function on multidisciplinary teams (e) an ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems (f) an understanding of professional and ethical responsibility (g) an ability to communicate effectively (h) the broad education necessary to understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context (i) a recognition of the need for, and an ability to engage in life-long learning (j) a knowledge of contemporary issues (k) an ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering practice. These Program Educational Objectives were updated in April 2015. The diversity encountered in the profession requires the successful biomedical engineer to have technical and non-technical skills, especially for communication and team efforts. Courses in the humanities and social sciences enhance non-technical skills, and explore the engineer's relationship with, and responsibility to, society. Studies in the sciences and other engineering disciplines enable quicker, sure communication and evaluation when total solutions are sought by multidisciplinary efforts. Materials in engineering ethics and professionalism are essential because our graduates and the field expect to enrich life and provide solutions with known benefits and defined risks. This curriculum equips typical Biomedical Engineering graduates of the University of Memphis with the skills and perspectives required for success in a variety of professional roles. These include the ability to conduct project design work, to manage projects, to interact successfully with the public, and to pursue advanced study, engineering, business, medicine, law, or other fields if so desired. ADMISSION: Admission to the university will allow a student to be in a pre-biomedical engineering major. Movement into the major requires completion of the courses listed below with a minimum grade of "C" in each of these courses. MATH 1910, BIOM 1710, BIOM 1720, PHYS 2110 and ENGL 1010. Monitoring of a student's progress will be performed by the Herff College of Engineering academic advisor. A student will not be forwarded to the academic department for advising until these courses have been satisfactorily completed. Biomedical Engineering (B.S.B.E.) A. University General Education Program (36 hours) See Graduation from the University for University General Education Program requirements. Note the following requirements are specified for this program: Communication: ENGL 3603 instead of COMM 2381; Mathematics: MATH 1910 (students who have not had MATH 1730 or its equivalent must take it before enrolling MATH 1910). Social/Behavioral Sciences: ECON 2010 must be taken in addition to 3 hours from the other specified choices; Natural Science: PHYS 2110/2111, 2120/2121. History: American history waived for B.S.B.E. students who have completed one unit of American history in high school. B. College and Degree Requirements (23 hours) Mathematics (11 hours): MATH 1920, 2110, and 3120. Natural Science (8 hours): CHEM 1110/1111; BIOL 1110/1111. Collateral Courses (4 hours): EECE 2201/2203 or EECE 2283/2281. C. The Major (69 hours) 1. Completion of 41 hours from BIOM 1710, 1720, 2710 (4), 2720, 2810 (4), 3710, 4760, 4780; CHEM 1120/1121; BIOL 1120, BIOL 2011 (1) or BIOL 2021 (1); BIOL 3730 (4); MECH 3320. 2. Completion of 28 hours of BIOM, Engineering and Technical electives approved by the advisor. At least 7hours must be satisfied with BIOM electives. Twelve hours of electives must be chosen from upper division engineering courses. Six hours of technical electives may be chosen from upper division courses in BIOL, BIOM, CHEM, EECE, MATH, MECH and PHYS. The remaining 3 hours must be chosen from engineering or upper-division courses in BIOL. Courses at this level in other departments can be chosen with permission of the chair or the chair's designee. Some courses to meet these requirements are: BIOM 4720 (4), 4730 (4), 4750 (4), 4702, 4205; CHEM 3301 (1), 3311; EECE 3202, 3211, 3213 (1), 3221, 3240, 4270 (4); MATH 3242, 4391, 4721; BIOL 3130, 4511; MECH 3311, 3322, 3325 (1), 3331, 3335 (1), PHYS 3010, 3011. Accelerated B.S.B.E./M.S. Program in Biomedical Engineering This program allows outstanding undergraduates to begin the coursework for the Master of Science in Biomedical Engineering during their senior year. Students are encouraged to begin planning to enter the Accelerated B.S.B.E./M.S. program early in their undergraduate career, in consultation with their advisor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering. Working with the undergraduate and graduate academic coordinators, undergraduates selected into this program begin a carefully tailored course of study which will allow them to complete their B.S.B.E. degree while they also begin the coursework toward their M.S. To apply, students must have a minimum 3.25 grade point average, and must submit two reference letters and a copy of their transcript to the Biomedical Engineering department. Each applicant will complete an interview with the graduate academic coordinator in biomedical engineering. Students must also apply to the Graduate School for the accelerated B.S.B.E./M.S. program, which allows them to take graduate courses in biomedical engineering. To continue in the program past the B.S.B.E., students must apply for full admission into the Graduate School and into the Biomedical Engineering department's M.S. program. Only in ABM programs, up to 9 hours of graduate course work may be applied to both the undergraduate and graduate programs. However, any graduate coursework will not apply to undergraduate GPA. Typical 4-Year Biomedical Engineering Sequence Freshman Year ENGL 1010 3 PHYS 2110/2111 4 CHEM 1110/1111 4 CHEM 1120/1121 4 MATH 1910 4 MATH 1920 4 BIOM 1710 3 BIOM 1720 3 ENGL 1020 3 Semester Totals 14 hrs 18 hrs Sophomore Year BIOL 1110/1111 4 MATH 3120 3 MATH 2110 4 BIOL 1120 3 PHYS 2120/2121 4 BIOL 2011 1 BIOM 2720 3 BIOM 2810 4 EECE 2201/2203 or 2283/2281 4 ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 18 hrs Junior Year BIOM 2710 4 MECH 3320 3 ECON 2010 3 ENGL 3603 3 BIOL 3730 4 BIOM 3710 3 Engineering elective (MECH 2332) or BIOL elective 3 Engeering elective 3 Engineering elective 3 Tech elective 3 Social/Behavioral Sciences* 3 Semester Totals 17 hrs 18 hrs Senior Year BIOM 4760 3 BIOM 4780 3 Humanities/Fine Arts* 3 BIOM Elec 4 BIOM Elec 3 Engr Elec 3 Tech elective 3 Humanities/Fine Arts* 3 Engineering elective 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 13 hrs Total Hours: 128 Total Hours Required for Graduation: 128 *Must satisfy University General Education Program Requirement GRADUATION: To qualify for the degree of Bachelor of Science in Biomedical Engineering, the student must satisfy University and College requirements, obtain a minimum 2.0 grade point average on all work completed, and obtain a minimum grade of "C-" in all engineering, mathematics, physics, biology, and chemistry courses used to satisfy degree requirements. Waiver of departmental graduation requirements for exceptional circumstances will be granted only upon approval of both the department chair and the Dean of the College of Engineering (or designee). Honors in Biomedical Engineering The Biomedical Engineering Honors Program is for highly motivated and high-achieving students that provides special opportunities to advance the career and professional development of the student. The progam aims to develop student talents, interests, and abilities within a curriculu, as well as encouraging independence and creativity. Students are eligible for the honors program in biomedical engineering if they have and maintain a cumulative GPA of 3.4 with at least junior standing, and have received approval from the departmental honors committee. The honors program in biomedical engineering requires a minimum of 10 hours of upper-division biomedical engineering honors courses, including both BIOM 4800 BME Honors seminar, and completion of an honors thesis (BIOM 4999). Students who complete the honors program and the requirements for the B.S. in Biomedical Engineering will be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having their degree conferred "With Honors in Biomedical Engineering." Honors designation will also appear on the student's diploma and academic transcript. College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .