#http://www.memphis.edu/padm/people/david-cox.php
Dr. David Cox - PADM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Public and Nonprofit Administration Masters Certificates Undergraduates People Admission Home PADM People Dr. David Cox Dr. David Cox Professor, Interim Head of School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy Phone 901.678.3046 Email davidcox@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2981 Office 201C McCord Hall Office Hours By Appointment Education: Ph.D., 1977, Indiana University (Bloomington, IN) Major: Political Science M.A., 1969, University of Queensland (Brisbane, Australia) Major: Political Science B.A., 1965, with Honors, Ball State University (Muncie, IN) Majors: Social Science, Pre-Law, with Honors Areas of Expertise: Urban Administration Politics and Problems Community Building Bio: Dr. Cox holds the rank of Professor in the Division of Public Administration. He previously served as Executive Assistant to the President at The University of Memphis, and he served on loan from the University as Director of the Office of University Partnerships for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development in 1998-99. Other position he has held include Chairman of the Department of Political Science, Director of the Division of Public Administration, Director of the Division of Health Administration, Director of the Institute for Governmental Studies and Research, Director of the Center for Urban Research and Extension, and Acting Associate Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences at The University of Memphis. Dr. Cox's research, outreach, and publications have centered on the effect of urban governance structures on the responsiveness, equity, and effectiveness of public policies and on strategies for inter-organizational collaboration. His work has been supported by over $7,000,000 in nationally competitive grants. Agencies from whom he has received funding include the National Science Foundation, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, U.S. Department of Education, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency, Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, and the Rockefeller Foundation. Awards and recognition Dr. Cox has received include the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Human Rights Award, the National Outstanding Community Commitment Award, the Certificate for Superior Accomplishment from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Superior Performance in University Research awards, and a Rotary International Graduate Fellowship. He is Chairman of the Board of the Association for Community-Higher Education Partnerships, and is a member of the National Review Board It's Time to GO Public! Get the knowledge and skills you need to face today's challenges and tomorrow's opportunities. Contact Us Main office contact and location. Partners/Accredited by NASPAA Information regarding our NASPAA accreditation and partners. SUAPP Public and Nonprofit Administration is a part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .