#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/faculty/faculty_services.php
Faculty Services - FCBE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty &amp; Staff Research News Faculty &amp; Staff Faculty Profiles Faculty Services Center Faculty Resources FCBE Contact List Academic Program Assessment Home FCBE Faculty &amp; Staff Faculty Services Faculty Services The Faculty Services Center (FSC) located on the third floor in Room 350 is a one stop service center. The services include duplication of tests, instructional handouts, transparencies, portable instructional equipment check out, and mail services. We also provide duplication of syllabi, but these are supposed to be online, therefore, the cost is charged to the faculty's development account. The following procedures have been devised to guide the delivery of the various services that Faculty Services Center offers. Faculty services staff Office hours Policies &amp; Procedures Procedures for instructional duplicating material Equipment Mail Incoming Mail Outgoing Mail Campus Mail Keys Handout &amp; Other Material Test Material Contact us Faculty services staff Darrell Perkins Claire Grant Janet Hicks Office hours Monday - Thursday: 7:30 AM - 6:00 PM Friday: 7:30 AM - 4:30 PM Spring Break, Fall Break, Semester Break 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM Policies &amp; Procedures Procedure For Duplicating Instructional Material A copy order form has to be filled out for each copy assignment. This form has to be filled out COMPLETELY. Please count the number of pages, enter the number of copies you want, one-sided, two-sided, collated/stapled, etc. This is a major time saver if we have all of this information as soon as we get the order. If we have a question and cannot reach the faculty member, the order could be delayed several hours. Equipment Faculty Services provides computer/projectors and TV/VCRs for classrooms that do not have this technology. However, our supply is very limited and reservations must be made in advance of your scheduled presentations. This equipment may be picked up and returned, or FSC will deliver and pick up. If you see that you are not going to need the equipment, PLEASE let FSC know as soon as possible. This not only relieves our office of delivering it to the classroom, but also, it makes the equipment available for someone who may need it at that time. MAIL Incoming Mail From Outside The College All incoming mail from outside the college is delivered to the mailroom in the Dean's Office. Mail will be sorted into the appropriate boxes as a first step in distribution. Mail slots are identified for UG, Master and Ph.D. program as well as for computer support and Technological Advancement functions. Once the initial sorting and distribution is complete, the Faculty Services Center staff will pick up the mail to distribute to individual, locked faculty mail boxes in the faculty mail room located in room 212. All doctoral student and part-time instructor mail will be distributed into individual mail boxes also located in room 100. Faculty Service Center will deliver mail at least once a day as a regular practice Monday thru Friday. Mail that is large in size and does not fit into mail boxes will be kept in the Faculty services Center and the individual recipient will be notified by voice mail. In cases of bulk mail or mail that is in large numbers (e.g., surveys, etc.) special arrangements should be made in advance with the Faculty Services Center. Accumulated mail for the faculty with extended leaves will be placed in their offices once their mail boxes are filled, unless arrangements for mail pick up are made by the individual faculty member. Outgoing Mail Faculty may drop outgoing mail at the Faculty Service Center, room FCB 350, the Faculty Mail room, room 320, or the mail room in the Dean's Office, room FCB 430A. The outgoing mail will be sorted by FSC staff. All outgoing mail must be identified by the individual sender's name. Faculty Service Center staff will sort and deliver the outgoing mail to the mailroom in the Dean's office to be picked up by the postal service. Large quantity mailing requests must be submitted to the Faculty service Center in advance so that appropriate arrangements can be made. FedEx and Priority Mail envelopes and address labels are provided in FSC. From Inside The College Faculty may send material to other faculty and students either by dropping the material in the designated location within the Faculty Service Center or Faculty Mail Room. (FCB 320) There is a large closed mail container in the Faculty Mail Room for this purpose. Materials left in this container will be distributed as part of the regular mail service. Faculty, Teaching Assistants and Part-time faculty should provide full information to their students and the FSC about how they can be reached by the students at the beginning of each semester. Information to students should include office hours, office numbers, phone numbers and information about locations for students to drop off material for their instructor. All such information should be provided as part of course syllabi and posted on the office door. Procedures for Keys All keys are checked out through Faculty Services. Office keys, mailbox keys and various building keys will remain with you, but certain classroom keys which you will need should be returned at the end of each semester. This is extremely important. If these keys are not turned in, it causes a shortage for the following semester. If you want your graduate assistant to have a key to your office, you must let FSC know in advance. The key will be checked out in your name and you will be responsible for it. If you do not want your GA to have a key, but want him to have access to your office, you must inform FSC in advance. We will not let anyone into your office without prior notice. Lost Keys If you lose your keys, they will be replaced, but please make every effort to find them before requesting new ones. A yearly key audit is conducted in early Fall. You must account for all keys that have been issued to you during the year. Handouts and Other Materials Faculty are encouraged to use library services to place class material on reserve. Such material may include articles, various handouts, and copies of transparencies used in the class. Faculty Services Center cannot duplicate copyrighted material without documented proper approval. FSC will produce overhead transparencies (provided that templates are ready for copying) and class handouts that require immediate distribution. These requests will be handled on a first-come-first serve basis. To ensure timely processing, requests should be submitted at least one (1) day in advance. TEST MATERIALS Test materials must be turned in at least 24 hours prior to the time needed. It is imperative that the work request form be completed. Please fill out all information required to avoid delays in processing. Contact Us Location: BA 350 Phone Number: 901-678-4292 Fax Number: 901-678-2685 3675 Central Avenue Memphis, TN 38152-3120 Faculty &amp; Staff Faculty Profiles Faculty Services Center Faculty Resources FCBE Contact List Academic Program Assessment Apply to our Undergraduate Programs &gt; Enroll at the university and engage yourself with our six different departments, student enrichment, and more. Apply to our Masters Programs &gt; Earn your degree with one of our six MBA tracks or with one of our four specialized Masters programs! Apply to our Doctoral Programs &gt; Interested in a Ph.D.? Start the journey towards your Ph.D. here! Contact Us &gt; Have questions? Call or email today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .