#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/econ/2015FECON4220001.pdf
1 Course Syllabus ECON 4220 -001 (CRN 93674) – Urban/Regional Economics 3 Credit Hours Instructor: Dr. Douglas Campbell Phone : (901) 678 -3754 E-mail: douglas.campbell@memphis.edu Office: FCBE 409 Office Hours: Wednesdays, 1:00 pm – 2:00 pm Course Overview Economics 4220 examines issues relevant to the economics of cities, including the reasons why cities exist, how economic activity is organized within cities, as well as a host of topics, such as transportation, poverty, crime, economic development, and public finance. The course is writing -intensive and involves written exams, homework assignments, and a term paper. Pre -Requisites ECON 2020 (Introduction to Microeconomics) or a n equivalent course. Required Texts (and Related M aterials) Urban Economics Triumph of the City Arthur O’Sullivan Edward Glaeser 8th Edition ISBN 978 -0-07-351147-4 Location of Course Materials Course information, such as the syllabus, review sheets, homework assignments, and all grades will be available via ecourseware. I do not have a copy of either textbook on reserve at the library. Course Objectives By successfully completing this course, students will be able to: 1. Explain the various reasons why cities exist. 2. Discuss what factors cause cities to grow in population, and why economic activity within cities is distributed as it is. 3. Identify different urban amenities and disamenities and explain how they affect migration between cities 4. Discuss agglom eration economies and urbanization economies and explain how they lead to different forms of clustering. 5. Explain how neighborhoods and zoning contribute to the pattern of economic activity within cities. 6. Discuss the importance of various urban issues, like transportation, education, crime, housing, and local government public finance. The Fogelman College of Business and Economics Learning Outcome s for Your Degree Course Methodology This is a traditional, in -class lecture course. Some content will be delivered online, but most will be in class. Professor’s Expectations I do expect you to arrive at class prepared for lecture and having read the necessary material in advance. Also, you should plan to arrive at class before the official time at which class begins, 1:00 PM. Student's Expectations In my role as your instruct or, there are certain things you can expect from me including: well -organized and engaging learning experience, response to emails within two (2) business days or as quickly as possible , and feedback on all work submitted by the end of the semester. Also, moderate sarcasm , exquisite comic timing, and colorful socks. Grading and Evaluation Criteria There will be three midterm exams and a final. The final will be comprehensive and is mandatory – it cannot be dropped or avoided. You can drop your lowest midterm exam score. Because of this , there will be no make -up exams. If you know in advance that you will be out of town on the day of an exam, let me know and I will schedule an alternate time for you to take the test. There will also be five homework assignments. All assignments taken together will account for 10% of your final grade. Finally, you’ll be required to write an 8 -10 page term paper this semester. The paper topic will be chosen from a list of suggested topics I’ll post on ecourse ware in the coming weeks. The final draft is due on the last day of class, Tuesday, December 1. No late papers will be accepted under any circumstances. This assignment is worth 10% of your final grade. The tests and other assignments are weighted as foll ows in determining your final grade: Exams One, Two and/or Three 50% (25% each) Final Exam 30% Homework Assignments 10% Term Paper 10% Final Course Grades The grading scale is as follows: A 90 – 100% B 80 – 90% C 70 – 80% D 60 – 70% F < 60 % I will of course round up to the nearest whole number when assigning grades, such that an 89.5 is an A, 79.5 a B, and so on. There might or might not be a curve, but that depends on the final averages and grades. I am hesitant to commit to one now, but I am open to that possibility as the semester progresses. Course Topics Economics 4220 examines issues relevant to the economics of cities, including the reasons why cities exist, how economic activity is organized within cities, as well as a host of topics, such as transportation, poverty, crime, economic development, and public finance. List of Formal Assessed Activities There will be three midterm exams and a final. The final will be comprehensive and is mandatory – it cannot be dropped or avoided. The midterm exams will be a combination of definitions, short -answer questions, and essays. Review sessions in class will be scheduled, time permitting. The tests should take approximately one hour. You can drop your lowest midterm exam score. There will also be five homework assignments. The assignments will consist of 2 -3 questions from the text or other sources. You will be given roughly one week to complete each assignment. The assignments will be issued as the material dictates. All assignments taken together will account for 10% of your final grade. Finally, you’ll be required to write an 8 -10 page term paper this semester . The paper topic will be chosen from a list of suggested topics I’ll post on ecourseware in the coming weeks. The final draft is due on the last day of class, Tuesday, December 1. No late papers will be accepted under any circumstances. This assignment is worth 10% of your final grade. Schedule of Activities Following is an approximate schedule for the semester. The schedule is subject to revision as necessary. The exam dates listed are not likely to change, only the material covered on each day or on each exam. (Note that if there is no chapter listed for a particular day, this does not mean that there will be no class that day, just that what we cover that day is undetermined as of the beginning of the semester.) Week Meeting Day Date Material Covered/Te xt Chapters 1 1 T 25-Aug Introduction and Overview, Ch. 1. (G -intro) 2 R 27-Aug 2 (G2) 2 3 T 1-Sep 4 R 3-Sep 3 (G1,5) 3 5 T 8-Sep 6 R 10-Sep 4 (G6) 4 7 T 15-Sep 8 R 17-Sep Exam One 5 9 T 22-Sep 5 10 R 24-Sep 6 6 11 T 29-Sep 7 (G7) 12 R 1-Oct 8 (G3) 7 13 T 6-Oct 14 R 8-Oct Midterm Exam 8 T 13-Oct No Class – Fall Break 15 R 15-Oct 9 (G4) 9 16 T 20-Oct 17 R 22-Oct 10 10 18 T 27-Oct 19 R 29-Oct 11 11 20 T 3-Nov 12 21 R 5-Nov Exam Three 12 22 T 10-Nov 13 23 R 12-Nov 13 24 T 17-Nov 14 (G8) R 19-Nov 15 14 25 T 24-Nov 16 26 R 26-Nov No Class – Thanksgiving Break 15 27 T 1-Dec Last Day of Class Final Exam Schedule The final exam for this class has been scheduled according to the Registrar’s Academic Calendar , on Thursday, December 10, 2015, from 10:30 AM to 12:30 PM , in our regular classroom. Course Policies Email Any inquiries about grades sent via email must be sent from your University of Memphis email account. I cannot respond to questions about grades sent from any other email service. All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will recei ve all official course correspondence at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not regularly checking your email, having a “full mailbox”, etc.) is the student’s responsibility. Attendance Attendance will be taken daily but does not factor directly into your grade. However, attending class regularly is important and will ultimately affect your final grade. I do expect you to be here on time. Lateness is strongly discouraged. Adding/Dropping Classes If you hav e questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to this page on the Registrar’s website . Academic Integrity Expectations for academic integrity and student conduct are described in detail on the website of the Office of Student Judicial and Ethical Affairs . Please take a look, in particular, at the section s about “Academic Dishonesty,” “Code of Rights and Responsibilities,” and “Examples of Disruptive Behaviors.” I expect students to be aware of these guidelines and to conduct themselves accordingly. Any incidents of academic dishonesty (i.e. cheating on a test, plagiarizing, etc.) will result in a final grade of “F” for the course. Note that using a “Solutions Manual” is considered cheating. Should I obtain evidence that the use of a “Solutions Manual” has occurred, I might take steps as described on the campus’ Office of Student Conduct website .” Participation To be successful in this course as a student, you must stay active and involved throughout the entire semester. Students are strongly encouraged to participate in class discussions . You should also communicate with me if you have any questions. Classroom Behavior All participants in this course should be considerate of the other course participants and treat them (as well as their opinions) with respect. In the interest of promoting a classroom environment that is conducive to learning, you must turn off your cell phones before entering t he room. Additionally, there will be no eating in class, unnecessary exits, excessive talking, or disruptive behavior. Keep in mind that you can be dropped from the class for violating these rules. Late Assignments Late assignments will not be accepted. Extra Credit Some opportunities to earn extra points will require your presence in class – missed opportunities for extra points cannot be made up. Reporting Illness or Absence If you are absent, you are responsible for finding out what you missed, either from me or from a classmate. I do not have notes to share with you, so you’ll have to get those elsewhere. I don’t require any notes or documentation to support your absence, but you are welcome to provide such if you like. Inclement Weather In the event o f University closure (due to inclement weather or any other reason) or an unplanned instructor absence, you should check your student email account for instructions from me. (Your student email address is yourUUID @memphis.edu.) My policy is that if class i s canceled for any reason, what we would have covered on the day(s) missed will be resumed immediately upon our return. This applies to lectures, exams, or anything else. Additionally, The University of Memphis has established an Inclement Weather Hotline at (901) 678-0888, as well as TigerText , an emergency alert text messaging service available for students, fac ulty and staff. This optional service is used in the event of an on -campus emergency, an unscheduled university closing, or a delay or cancellation of classes due to, for instance, inclement weather. Click here for information on TigerText. Syllabus Changes This course syllabus provides a general plan for the semester; deviations might be necessary. Student Service s Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : • Students with Disabilities • Tutoring and other Academic Assistance • Advising Services for Fogelman Students • Technical Assistance