#http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/resources/po_commuter.php
Parents of Commuter Students - Parent &amp; Family Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parent &amp; Family Services About Events Communication Resources Get Involved Give Back Visit UofM Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Home Parent &amp; Family Services Resources Parents of Commuter Students Parents of Commuter Students Commuter students juggle a lot: making a place for themselves academically, making social connections and getting involved on campus. Campus life is not just for those students living in the residence halls or student apartments! It’s for commuters and their families, too. Adult and Commuter Student Services Within the University, there is an office dedicated to adult and commuter students and serving their unique needs. They offer many resources for students that commute to campus, including A commuter lounge with couches, microwave and refrigerator Quiet study area with computers Complimentary hot beverages Monthly e-newsletter Seminars with topics of interest to commuter students Transportation Information (Bus schedules, Carpool information) Commuter Student Association (CSA) For more information, please visit their website by clicking here . Parking on Campus General parking is available on campus and a permit is included in the cost of tuition. Students will receive a permit in the mail prior to their first semester of classes. If registered before the deadline, students will receive subsequent permit stickers for the remaining semesters that they are enrolled. If students would like to park in priority lots, including the parking garages, they will need to apply for a priority parking permit with the Parking Services office . These spots are limited and students should apply as soon as possible for these permits. To help with the congestion of parking, the university has established the Blue Line , an on campus bus service that transports students to different points on campus. Students can ride for free during operating hours. Nighttime Transportation (Tiger Escort) Students that are on campus at night and who do not feel comfortable walking to their car or residence hall can call on Tiger Escort . A volunteer will pick up students all around campus and escort them to their car or to their residence hall. Normal hours for the Fall and Spring semesters are from 6:00 pm to 2:00 am seven days a week. Students can call on Tiger Escort at 901.678.HOME (4663). Parenting a Commuter Student You can help your student get the most out of college life with the following tips: Attend Parent Orientation when your student attends New Student or Transfer Orientation . Even if you know the University, if you have another child at the University, or if you work at the University, your attendance will show your child that you value his or her college experience and his or her choice of schools. Encourage involvement. Students who are engaged on campus tend to stay and finished their degrees than those less involved in campus activities. So, encourage your student to take advantage of that free lunch at Career Services, attend the informational meeting at The University Center, or to check out one of over 100 registered student organizations on campus. Trying things outside the classroom can help your student feel more a part of campus life. Don’t expect to see a lot of your student. Your student will have a full plate with school, work and other involvements. So, if he or she doesn’t come home for dinner, maybe it’s because a classmate invited them out for a bite. It’s important that your student is making those campus connections. On-Campus Jobs: Most commuter students work, but there are benefits to working on-campus. Even if the wages are less than they could earn off campus, the support of college-based supervisors and the time on campus is beneficial. Provide a quiet, comfortable place to study. College studies require more time and effort than high school ever did. Your student may be spending several hours of study time for every hour that he or she is in class. Your student will need time and space to study effectively, without interruptions. Support your student’s efforts. If he or she is playing in the UofM Jazz Band, go to the concerts. Attend athletic events, programs that they helped to coordinate, and conferences they worked on. Your support means a great deal, even if your student doesn’t always show it. Stay involved. Get to know more about the activities your student has gotten involved in so you stay connected to your student. Encourage your student to find a commute partner. Students who carpool with classmates will meet new friends, have a more enjoyable commute and feel more connected to the UofM Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Contact Us Got questions, comments, or concerns? We're here to help! Parent &amp; Family E-news Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News. Parent &amp; Family Handbook Learn about opportunities and services available to students. In the Now: September FAQs What you need to know this month to help you help your student Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .