#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/edu/hss.php
Health and Sport Sciences - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Health and Sport Sciences Health and Sport Sciences RICHARD J. BLOOMER, PhD Chair LAWRENCE W. WEISS, EdD Coordinator of Graduate Studies 901.678.5037 E-mail: lweiss@memphis.edu Room 106, Roane Field House 901.678.2989 I. The Department of Health and Sport Sciences (HSS) offers two graduate degrees: 1) Master of Science degree in Health and Sport Science with concentrations in Environmental Nutrition (ENVN, online program only), Exercise and Sport Science (EXSS), Health Promotion (HPRO, online program only), Nutrition Science (NSCI), Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE), or Sport Commerce (SPRT); and 2) Master of Science degree in Clinical Nutrition (NUTR). All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MS Degree Program with Major in Health and Sport Science Program objectives are: (1) to recognize the diverse nature of subject matter embodied in the respective program disciplines; (2) to understand the research findings and theoretical constructs undergirding the corresponding disciplines within the health and sport science umbrella, including the development of specialized skills needed for systematic inquiry; (3) to understand the critical role of diversity in delivering inclusive sport science services; (4) to develop effective leadership skills; and (5) to understand and embrace ethical standards of the respective disciplines. A. Admission Requirements Prospective students must apply to both the Graduate School and the Department of Health and Sport Sciences. In both cases, the applicant must submit an official transcript for undergraduate and graduate studies. Additionally, as part of the application to the Graduate School, an official report of Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores must be submitted except: Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE): An applicant seeking admission to the PETE concentration may opt to submit official scores of the PRAXIS II exams in lieu of the GRE. Sport Commerce (SPRT): An applicant seeking admission to the SPRT concentration is not required to submit GRE scores. However, official GRE, GMAT, LSAT, or other standardized test scores may be requested or submitted to support an application. An applicant must also submit the following to the department: 1) HSS Graduate Admission Application Form, 2) two letters of recommendation, and 3) a 300-500 word statement of goals including identification of the intended area of concentration. (Contact the department's academic services coordinator for application forms. Departmental application forms are also available on-line at . (Click on "Advising," then "Graduate Admissions.") An applicant must have graduated with a minimum baccalaureate GPA of 2.5. Completion of an appropriate undergraduate major and a strong background in discipline-specific courses: Environmental Nutrition: life science-oriented courses such as nutrition, biology, health sciences, public health, health promotion, food service, and anthropology Exercise and Sport Science: anatomy and physiology, health sciences, exercise physiology, anatomic kinesiology, biomechanics, sport psychology, and motor learning Health Promotion: science-oriented courses such as, but not limited to, nutrition, biology, biochemistry, health sciences, chemistry, and psychology Nutrition Science: science-oriented courses such as, but not limited to, nutrition, biology, biochemistry, health sciences, and chemistry Physical Education Teacher Education: anatomic kinesiology, anatomy and physiology, biology, exercise physiology, health sciences, motor learning, nutrition, and sport psychology Sport Commerce: sport management, economics, finance, marketing, public relations, commercial recreation, resort management, and tourism Completion of undergraduate work deemed by the concentration committee as prerequisite to graduate courses. Student admissions to the respective programs within the Health and Sport Science (HSS) major are differentially restricted to enable Graduate Faculty within each concentration to closely mentor their students. To ensure maximum consideration for admission into a specific HSS concentration, the following dates are provided: May 1 for summer and fall and November 1 for the spring semester. The admission committee may request a personal interview. Multiple criteria will be used when considering applicant admission, including, but not limited to, undergraduate and graduate grade point average, GRE/GMAT/PRAXIS II scores, personal goals statement, relevant employment history, and letters of recommendation. B. Program Requirements A minimum of 30 hours is required for the major although respective concentrations may require additional credit hours. Program Research Core (6 hours): HMSE 7010 EDPR 7541 Concentration requirements: Environmental Nutrition (18 hours): NUTR 7182, 7183, 7710, 7712, 7722, 7850 Exercise and Sport Science (18 hours): EDPR 7542 or PUBH 7152; EXSS 7020, 7123, 7163, 7201, 7202 Health Promotion (21 hours): HPRO 7182, 7183, 7710, 7712, 7722, 7780, 7790 Nutrition Science (12 hours): NUTR 7152, 7412, 7422, PUBH 7152 Physical Education Teacher Education (18 hours): PETE 7201, 7202, 7203, 7204, 7205, 7501; Sport Commerce (12 hours): SPRT 7321, 7420, 7440, 7503 Guided electives selected with approval of the advisor: Environmental Nutrition (0-3 hours) Exercise and Sport Science (6 hours) Health Promotion (no electives) Nutrition Science (9 hours) Physical Education Teacher Education (6 hours) Sport Commerce Concentration (12 hours) Culminating Experience (3-9 hours)(Consult Graduate School Calendar for submission deadlines - ): Environmental Nutrition: NUTR 7800 (3-6 hours), and NUTR 7950 (3 hours); Exercise and Sport Science: HMSE 7996 (6 hours) or EXSS 7950 (6 hours). Students choosing the thesis option should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. Health Promotion: HPRO 7950 (6 hours) Nutrition Science: HMSE 7996 (6 hours) or NUTR 7950 (6 hours). Students choosing the thesis option should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. Physical Education Teacher Education: HMSE 7996 (6 hours) or PETE 7950 (6 hours) Sport Commerce: HMSE 7996 (6 hours) or SPRT 7605 (3 hours). Students electing to write a thesis should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. Successful completion of an oral or written comprehensive examination (successful defense of the Applied Project or Thesis may serve this purpose). (Consult Graduate School Calendar for submission deadlines) Consult Graduate School Calendar for Apply to Graduate submission deadlines An Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s (ABM) Program is offered by the Department of Health &amp; Sport Sciences in two general program areas: BSEd, Health &amp; Human Performance (HHP) with a concentration in Exercise &amp; Sport Science (EXSS)/ MS, Health &amp; Sport Science (HSS) with a concentration in Exercise &amp; Sport Science (EXSS) The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s (ABM) degree program HHP (EXSS)/ HSS (EXSS) provides qualified UM senior undergraduate students the opportunity to satisfy course requirements, including elective hours, for the bachelor’s degree in HHP with a concentration in EXSS that also may be subsequently applied on a prearranged basis to the master’s degree in HSS with a concentration in EXSS that may satisfy some of its degree requirements. BSEd, Sport &amp; Leisure Management (SLM)/MS, Health &amp; Sport Science (HSS) with a concentration in Sport Commerce (SPRT) The Accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s (ABM) degree program SLM/ HSS (SPRT) provides qualified UM senior undergraduate students the opportunity to satisfy course requirements, including elective hours, for the bachelor’s degree in SLM that also may be subsequently applied on a prearranged basis to the master’s degree in HSS with a concentration in SPRT that may satisfy some of its degree requirements. For students who work closely with their advisors in planning their course of study in the Department of Health &amp; Sport Sciences, this option offers the opportunity of simultaneously satisfying partial degree requirements for a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in an accelerated program of study. Upon completion of the undergraduate degree with a satisfactory undergraduate grade point average and a grade of “B” or better in all graduate courses completed, the student may move to full graduate student status, and the preapproved graduate courses taken as an undergraduate may be applied toward the pre-specified graduate program of study. Students may use up to nine credit hours of designated courses in meeting the requirements of both the HHP/EXSS bachelor’s and HSS/EXSS master’s degrees or the SLM bachelor’s and HSS/SPRT master’s degrees. Courses considered for this purpose may include 4000/6000-level cognates and/or 7000-level courses. Undergraduate students will register for the 6000- or 7000-level courses, but fees will be levied at the undergraduate rate. Students applying for this program must: Have completed at least 18 hours of course work at UM before taking courses as part of the ABM program; Have a UM GPA of 3.25 or better Be within 30 semester hours of graduation Have written approval of the HSS Department Chair, the program coordinator(s) of both the respective undergraduate and graduate programs, and the HSS Academic Services Coordinator in order for specific graduate courses being acceptable for dual credit in the undergraduate and master’s degree programs; Meet all requirements for admission (including the GRE for either program or GMAT for SPRT) into the specified graduate program (except for receipt of the undergraduate degree); and Submit an application for admission to the ABM Degree Program, along with all necessary admissions documentation to the Graduate School by the deadline dates listed below. A maximum total of nine semester hours of preapproved graduate coursework may be considered for dual credit in the undergraduate and graduate degree programs and a maximum total academic load of 15 hours during the semester in which any of the graduate courses are taken. Students interested in this option must concurrently meet in person with the HSS Department Chair, the program coordinator(s) for respective undergraduate and graduate programs in question, as well as the HSS Academic Services Coordinator, and receive their written approval of the application. Final acceptance into the ABM program is contingent upon approval by the Vice Provost for Graduate Programs. Approvals apply only for the specific programs and courses designated in the application. Stipulated graduate courses for the ABM program are the only ones for which students in the undergraduate program are eligible to enroll, and completion of all allowable graduate courses is optional. For application materials, contact the HSS Academic Services Coordinator at 901-678-5037 or go to . Students may not apply online for this program. Submit application materials to the Department of Health &amp; Sport Sciences no later than the following dates, after which departmentally-approved applications will be submitted by the department to the Graduate School for consideration: April 15 for Fall term admission October 15 for Spring term admission April 15 for Summer term admission Subsequent to admission into the ABM program and satisfactory completion of stipulated coursework approved for the designated programs of study, a maximum of 9 credit hours from the following graduate courses may be applied to the respective programs of study for both the undergraduate and graduate levels as follows: Health &amp; Sport Science with a concentration in Exercise &amp; Sport Science: • EXSS 6000 or EXSS 6603 • HMSE 7010 • EXSS 7020 Health &amp; Sport Science with a concentration in Sport Commerce: SLC 6001 SLC 6002 SLC 6800 SPRT 7503 SPRT 7600 SPRT 7321 SPRT 7603 C. Program Retention Policy All MS degree students are regularly monitored for completion of any entry-level deficiencies by graduate faculty. Program retention committees, comprised of selected graduate faculty within the corresponding programs of study, monitor the academic progress of all MS degree candidates in the respective programs. Each committee determines whether or not the student is making sufficient progress and, in case of deficiencies, may recommend additional work or the dismissal of the student from the program. For any student recommended for dismissal, an appeals process is available. III. MS Degree Program with Major in Clinical Nutrition Enrollment is limited to 8 to 12 students per year. Program objectives are: (1) competence in nutrition therapy for individuals and groups; (2) ability to integrate and apply principles of food, nutrition, and management services for individuals and groups; and (3) ability to conduct research which will contribute to the body of knowledge in clinical nutrition and dietetics. A. Program Prerequisites Completion of an undergraduate major in foods and/or nutrition to include an Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (AND) approved Didactic Program in Dietetics. Acceptable undergraduate grade point average. Acceptable scores on the Graduate Record Examination. Admission to Graduate School. Demonstrated interest in the field of clinical nutrition by letter, documented work experiences, and evidence of above average performance documented by letters of reference. Payment of internship fees. B. Program Requirements A total of 32-42 hours is required for completion of this major, three hours of which must be a culminating experience (thesis or Applied Project in NUTR), and 10 hours of which must be clinical internship and residency. The following 26 credit hours are required: NUTR 7204 Perspectives in Nutrition in the Life Cycle (3) NUTR 7205 Nutrition Care in Acute and Chronic Illness I (3) HPRO 7780 Health Counseling (3) NUTR 7305 Nutrition Care in Acute and Chronic Illness II (3) NUTR 7405 Pharmacology for Nutrition Professionals (3) NUTR 7412 Cellular Nutrition I (3) NUTR 7415 Professional Issues in Nutrition (2) NUTR 7422 Cellular Nutrition II (3) NUTR 7522 Clinical Nutrition and Food Service Management (3) Six hours are required as a research collateral and include the following courses: EDPR 7523 Applied Educational Research (3) or HMSE 7010 Research Methods in Health &amp; Sport Science and either NUTR 7950 Applied Project in NUTR (3) or HMSE 7996 Thesis (3). Students electing to write a thesis should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. Ten hours are required as a clinical internship component that includes nine credit hours for the AND-accredited dietetic internship (1200 hours) and one credit hour of advanced clinical practice (120 hours). The required courses include: NUTR 7481 Clinical Internship in Nutrition (9) NUTR 7482 Clinical Residency in Nutrition (1) The student entering the program, having completed an AND-accredited dietetic internship with proof of registration as a dietitian, may waive Clinical Internship in Nutrition - 9 hours (NUTR 7481 and residency 1 hour NUTR 7482). The registered dietitian status must have been earned within the previous 6 years or the student will be required to verify the work by successful completion of a departmental exam. Successful completion of an oral comprehensive exam. (Consult Graduate School Calendar for submission deadlines) Oral defense of culminating experience (Applied Project in NUTR or thesis). Consult Graduate School Calendar for Apply to Graduate submission deadlines. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .