#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/cas/pols.php
POLS Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning POLS Courses POLITICAL SCIENCE (POLS) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: POLS 6710-19. Special Topics in Political Science. (1-3). Topics of current significance in public issues. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours with permission of the chair or graduate coordinator. POLS 7710-19–8710-19. Special Topics in Political Science. (1-3). Intensive study of selected topics in political science. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours. POLS 6101 - Political Statistics (3) (Same as PADM 6101). Introduction to analysis of quantitative data used to test, statistically, hypotheses in fields of political science and public and health administration. POLS 6200 - Envrnmntl Law/Polcy/Reg (3) Survey of the principal federal laws, policies, and regulations concerning environmental use and protection. POLS 6211 - Const Law Natl Power (3) An analysis of the relationships and controls of the three branches and the nature of the division of power between the nation and the states, with emphasis on the role of the Supreme Court as the arbiter in the constitutional system. POLS 6212 - Const Law Civil Liberty (3) Background, role, and legitimate extent of civil rights and liberties in US. POLS 6222 - Urban Politics (3) Roles and processes of politics and governance in urban America in context of global, social, and economic influences on cities and suburbs. POLS 6223 - Issues/Urban Politics (3) Selected issues in contemporary urban politics and policy. POLS 6230 - Legislative Interns (3-12) Supervised internship working with the Tennessee General Assembly or other legislative bodies on current legislative programs. Seminar sessions are held to discuss and analyze the problems with which the interns are working. May be repeated for a total of 12 credits. PREREQUISITE: Permission of department. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. POLS 6315 - Revolution/Pol Violence (3) Comparative analysis of the forms and causes of political violence within nations, including revolutions, ethnic conflict and secessionist movements, and terrorism. POLS 6317 - Democratic Transitions (3) Comparison of the transition from authoritarian rule to democracy in Latin America, Asia, Africa, and Eastern Europe, including consideration of the institutional design of democracy and the impact of culture on democratic transition and consolidation. POLS 6405 - Origin/Dev Am Pol Thght (3) Origin and development of political thought in the United States from the colonial to the present time, with emphasis placed on the relation between political thought and political institutions and practices. POLS 6504 - International Law (3) An analysis of the nature, scope, duties, rights, and evolutionary trends of international law. POLS 6508 - Theories Intl Relations (3) Theoretical approaches to study of international politics. Consideration of various schools of thought, methods, and substantive literatures. POLS 6510 - Politics Global Econ (3) Consideration of manner in which political processes affect and are affected by economic processes at global level. POLS 6511 - International Conflict (3) Sources of conflict between nations, including characteristics of the international system, national attributes, and decision making. POLS 6512 - Global Environmental Politics (3) Exploration of major issues and topics of politics of global environment, including governing the global environment, multilateral agreements, issues of sustainability, and environmental justice. POLS 7100 - Sem Scope/Meth Pol Sci (3) Survey of major theoretical approaches to study of politics with emphasis on both analytic and empirical aspects of political inquiry. POLS 7101 - Political Statistics (3) Introduction to descriptive and inferential analysis of quantitative political science data. POLS 7201 - Seminar/Amer Politics (3) Selected topics in American government and politics. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. POLS 7202 - Seminar US Government (2-3) Analysis of the principal institutions of the federal government of the United States, including Congress, the Presidency, and the Supreme Court. POLS 7203 - Seminar in Public Policymaking (3) This course is designed to focus on the process of evidence-based policymaking. Policymaking is a critical component of government, and relies on the horizontal and vertical flow of ideas and opinions. This course will examine the input and output of policymaking mechanisms by exploring cornerstone topics like issue-framing, what "evidence" is, and decision-making calculus. POLS 7204 - Representation in American Pol (3) This course provides a broad overview of the scholarship on representation. The course will examine how well the American public is represented, what it means to be represented, whether the public is capable of ensuring it is represented, and the effectiveness of American government institutions in achieving representation. The course is designed to be a collaborative enterprise in which we, as a class, evaluate the health of representative democracy in America and consider how we might do better. POLS 7302 - Sem Comp Politics (3) Selected topics in comparative politics. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. POLS 7303 - Sem Political Devlpmnt (3) Comparative study of the process of political change in the nations of the third world. POLS 7304 - Seminar/Human Rights (3) Focuses on improving government respect for human rights through an understanding of national and international institutions, interactions, norms, and actors; emphasizes conceptualizations and measurements of government respect for particular human rights used by this general research program. POLS 7317 - Democratization (3) This course is designed to focus on the theory and practice of democracy and democratization. It will help students understand the conceptual, theoretical, and empirical foundations of democratization; develop a foundation of fundamental knowledge about the nature of democracy promotion in theory and practice; and incorporate quantitative and qualitative methods in professional life and thinking. POLS 7401 - Sem Political Theory (3) Contribution of political philosophy to full understanding of politics is illustrated through selected topics. POLS 7402 - Topics in Political Thought (3) Selected topics within political theory. May be repeated a maximum of 6 hours. POLS 7501 - Sem Interntl Relations (3) Selected topics in international politics and foreign policy. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. POLS 7502 - Sem Intnl Confl/Security (3) Comparative and theoretical examination of how national and international actors conceptualize, identify, perceive, and address threats to their security; includes technological and social change, capabilities and limitations of defense decision makers and bureaucracies, and role of international institutions. POLS 7504 - Sem Gov Western Europe (2-3) Politics and policies of Western Europe, with emphasis on the nations of Britain, France, and Germany and integration processes occurring within the European Community. POLS 7505 - Sem Latin Amer Politics (2-3) Developmental challenges that confront Latin American nations, configurations of political institutions with which those nations address those challenges, and changing patterns of state-society relationships that result from the politics of development in Latin America. POLS 7506 - Foreign Policy (3) Analysis of the conduct and formulation of foreign policy. POLS 7508 - Interntnl Reltns Theory (3) A survey of the main theoretical approaches within the field of international relations. POLS 7510 - Politics Global Economy (3) Analysis of the interactive relationship between global political and economic processes. POLS 7512 - Politics of Environment Change (3) This seminar introduces students to the political challenges that accompany global environmental change. The central premise of this course is that deciding how to respond to environmental issues is a highly political process involving conflicts over competing values and interests. These conflicts and the subsequent outcomes are shaped by a variety of factors which will be explored in this seminar. POLS 7702 - Ind Study Pol Sci (1-3) May be repeated for a maximum of six hours. Independent investigation of research problems or directed readings in selected area of political science. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. POLS 7996 - Thesis (1-6) The student must write and defend satisfactorily a thesis on a subject approved by the major professor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. POLS 8201 - Seminar/Amer Politics (3) Selected topics in American government and politics. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. POLS 8302 - Sem Comp Politics (3) Selected topics in comparative politics. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. POLS 8501 - Sem Interntl Relations (3) Selected topics in international politics and foreign policy. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. POLS 8702 - Ind Study Pol Sci (1-3) May be repeated for a maximum of six hours. Independent investigation of research problems or directed readings in selected area of political science. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .