#http://www.memphis.edu/nrotc/future-students/college-program.php
College Program - Naval ROTC - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps Future Students Current Students Naval Science Crosstown Agreements Future Student Resources New Student Orientation About NSO Midshipmen Knowledge Handbook Summer Workout Plan NROTC Navy for Moms Website NROTC Program Eligibility Requirements 4 Year NROTC Scholarship Program 2 Year NROTC Scholarship Program College Program Naval Science Courses Home Naval ROTC Future Students College Program College Program General The College Program is an alternative route into the the NROTC program, and is for individuals who were not selected for a national scholarship or who did not apply for a national scholarship. Individuals can apply for the College Program at anytime. College Program students receive no monetary benefit from being in the program, but are given all uniforms. Application The University of Memphis Commanding Officer is authorized to select students for the College Program. The following three forms must be submitting to either the Marine Officer Instructor (Marines College Program applicants) or the Navy Recruiting Officer (Navy College Program applicants): NROTC College Program Application - (NSTC Form 1533/133 (10/11)) Report of Medical History Form (DD 2807-1) Report of Medical Examination Eligibility Requirements To be eligible for enrollment in the College Program, an applicant must meet the general midshipman requirements specified above ( NROTC Program Eligibility Requirements ) and the following additional requirements: Be motivated to serve as a commissioned officer in the Naval service; Be a U.S. or naturalized citizen or have submitted naturalization paperwork; Be enrolled as a full-time student at the University of Memphis, Christian Brothers University, or Rhodes College; Have no apparent physically disqualifying factors based on a review of the Report of Medical History DD Form 2807-1; Have the ability to meet the height/weight requirements; Have no felony conviction or conviction by courts-martial; Not be awaiting criminal trial or sentencing, or be under any other type of military or civil restraint as a result of violation of law or regulation, or have been convicted of an offense the nature of which renders the applicant unfit for commissioned service; Marine Option applicants must have one of the following minimum test scores: 21 - ACT (composite), 1000 - SAT (math and critical reading combined), or a 74 - Armed Forces Qualification Test (AFQT). Navy Option applicants must have one of the following minimum test scores: 24 - ACT (composite), 1130 - SAT (math and critical reading combined), or a 74 - Armed Forces Qualification Test (AFQT). Meet Department of the Navy requirements concerning use of drugs or alcohol; Have no body piercings and tattoos that violate Navy or Marine Corps policy, as applicable; and Have at least six semesters of college coursework remaining until they receive a degree. Future Student Resources New Student Orientation About NSO Midshipmen Knowledge Handbook Summer Workout Plan NROTC Navy for Moms Website NROTC Program Eligibility Requirements 4 Year NROTC Scholarship Program 2 Year NROTC Scholarship Program College Program Naval Science Courses Tiger Cruise Newsletter Read about events, stories of leadership, honor, courage and commitment Beale Street Drill Meet Endurance Challenge to build small unit leadership, cohesion, and morale. Contact Us &amp; Location Main office and location. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .