#http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/people/faculty/cvs/bmsinger_cv_1_18_2014.pdf
CURRICULUM VITAE Elizabeth B. Meisinger EDUCATION 2003 Doctor of Philosophy , Department of Educational Psychology to University of Georgia (APA-Accredited Program) 2006 Program: School Psychology 2000 Master of Arts , Department of Educational Psychology to University of Georgia 2002 Major : Education 1996 Bachelor of Arts , Department of Psychology to University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 2000 Major: Psychology ACADEMIC EXPERIENCE August 2010 ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR OF SCHOOL PSYCHOLOGY to Department of Psychology Present University of Memphis Duties: Coordinates the advanced practicum placements fo r doctoral students in school psychology. Coordinates the external assistantship placements for masters, specialists, and doctor al students in school psychology. Develops and maintains relationships with external assistantship placement sites. Advises doctoral students regarding the internship application process, and consults with current st udents and recent graduates regarding licensure. Maintains student data files. August 2013 ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF PSYCHOLOGY to Interventions in School Psychology; Psychological Consultation; Child Psychology; Present Intervention and Consultation Prac ticum in School Psychology; Adv anced Practicum in School Psychology Department of Psychology University of Memphis Duties: Responsible for all components of teaching including the preparation and administration of lectures, selection of reading materials and assignments, constructi on and scoring of examina tions and other grading procedures, and the assignment of course grades. Train school psychology graduates students in the implementation of a variety of intervention modalities including individual therapy, group therapy, and consultation. Advise and mentor graduate students enro lled in the school psychology program. Serve on student thesis, comprehensive examination, and dissertation co mmittees and serve on university and departmental committees. Elizabeth B. Meisinger 2August 2007 ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF PSYCHOLOGY to Interventions in School Psychology; Psychological Consultation; Child Psychology; August 2013 Intervention and Consultation Prac ticum in School Psychology; Adv anced Practicum in School Psychology Department of Psychology University of Memphis Duties: Responsible for all components of teaching including the preparation and administration of lectures, selection of reading materials and assignments, constructi on and scoring of examina tions and other grading procedures, and the assignment of course grades. Train school psychology graduates students in the implementation of a variety of intervention modalities including individual therapy, group therapy, and consultation. Advise and mentor graduate students enro lled in the school psychology program. Serve on student thesis, comprehensive examination, and dissertation co mmittees and serve on university and departmental committees. August 2004 TEACHING ASSISTANT to Psychoeducational Assessment Lab December 2004 Department of Educational Psychology University of Georgia Duties: Taught first-year graduate students in school a nd clinical psychology how to administer the WISC-IV, DAS, WAIS-II, RIAS, Stanford-Binet IV, K-ABC, GORT-4, and Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales. Demonstrated test administration, graded intelligence and achievement test protocols, and supervised practice administrations. PROFESSIONAL PUBLICATIONS (* = University of Memphis student) Journal Articles (N = 15) Full Length Articles *Taylor, C. T., Meisinger, E. B., & Floyd, R. G. (2013). Variations in directions and overt timing on oral reading accuracy, fluency, and prosody. School Psychology Review, 42, 437-447. Benjamin, R. G., Schwanenflugel, P. J., Meisinger, E. B., Groff, C., Kuhn, M., & Steiner, L. (2013). A spectrographically grounded scale fo r evaluating reading expressiveness. Reading Research Quarterly , 48, 105-133. Floyd, R. G., Meisinger, E. B., Gregg, N., Keith, T. Z. (2012). An e xplanation of reading comprehension across development using models from tellŒHornŒCarroll th eory: Support for integrative models of reading. Psychology in the Schools, 48, 725-743. *Price, K. W., Meisinger, E. B., *D™Mello, S., & Louwerse, M. M. (2012). Silent reading fluency using underlining: Evidence for an alternative method of assessment. Psychology in the Schools, 49, 606-618 . Kuhn, M., Schwanenflugel, P. J., & Meisinger, E. B. (2010). Aligning theory and assessment of reading fluency: Automaticity, prosody, and the definitions of fluency. Reading Research Quarterly, 45, 230-251. Meisinger, E. B., Bloom, J. S., & Hynd, G. W. (2010). Reading fluency: Implications for the assessment Elizabeth B. Meisinger 3 of children with reading disabilities. Annals of Dyslexia, 60, 1-17. Meisinger, E. B., Bradley, B. A., Schwanenflugel, P. J., & Kuhn, M. (2010). Teachers™ perceptions of word callers and related literacy concepts. School Psychology Review , 39, 54-68. Wise, J. C., Sevcik, R. A., Morris, R. D., Lovett, M. W., Wolf, M., Kuhn, M., Meisinger, E. B., & Schwanenflugel, P. J. (2010). The relationship betw een different measures of oral reading fluency and reading comprehension in second grade students who evidence different oral reading fluency difficulties. Language, Speech, and Hearing Services in Schools, 41 , 340-348. Meisinger, E. B., Bradley, B. A., Schwanenflugel, P. J., Kuhn, M. , & Morris, R. (2009). Myth and reality of the word caller: The relationship between teacher no minations and prevalence among elementary school children. School Psychology Quarterly , 24, 147-159. Schwanenflugel, P. J ., Kuhn, M. R., Morris, R. P., Morrow, L. M., Meisinger, E. B., Woo, D. G., & Quirk, M. (2009). Insights into fluency instruction: Short- and long-term effects of two reading programs. Literacy Research and Instruction, 48 , 318-336. Meisinger, E. B., Blake, J. J., Lease, M. A., Paladry, G., & Olejni k, S. F. (2007).Variant and invariant predictors of perceived popularity across majority-black and majority-white classrooms. Journal of School Psychology, 45 , 21-44. Kuhn, M., Schwanenflugel, P. J., Morris, R. D., Morrow, L. M., Woo, D., Meisinger, E. B., Sevcik, R., Bradley, B. A., & Stahl, S. A. (2006). Teaching children to become fluent and automatic readers. Journal of Literacy Research, 38, 357-387. Schwanenflugel, P.J., Meisinger, E. B., Wisenbaker, J., Kuhn, M., & Morris, R. (2006). Becoming a fluent and automatic reader in the early elementary school years. Reading Research Quarterly, 41 , 469-522. Meisinger, E. B., Schwanenflugel, P. J., Bradley, B. A., & Stahl, S. A. (2004). Interaction quality during partner reading. Journal of Literacy Research, 36, 111-140. Test Review *Traylor, T. B., *Price, K. W., & Meisinger, E. B. (2011). A review of the test of silent contextual reading fluency [Test Review]. Canadian Journal of School Psychology, 26, 75-79. Book Chapters (N = 2) Kuhn, M. R., Schwanenflugel, P J., Stahl, K. D., Meisinger, E. B., & Groff, C. (2013). Fluency-oriented reading instruction. In T. Rasinski & N. Padak (Eds.), Fluency to comprehension: Teaching practices that work (pp. 166-178). New York, NY: Guilford Press. Meisinger, E. B., & Bradley, B. A. (2007). Echo reading, choral reading, and partner reading: Classroom strategies for improving reading fluency. In M. Kuhn & P. J. Schwanenflugel (Eds.), Fluency in the classroom: A literacy curriculum (pp. 36-54). New York: Guilford Press. Manuscripts under Review (N = 1) *Bradley, T., & Meisinger, E. B. (2012). Miscues as predictors of reading comprehension . Unpublished manuscript. Elizabeth B. Meisinger 4 Manuscripts in Development ( N = 3) Meisinger, E. B. , *Bradley, T., & *Taylor, C. (2012). The concurrent validity of reading fluency measures . Unpublished manuscript. Meisinger, E. B. , *Price, K. W., & *Taylor, C. (2012). Navigating the classroom environment: The role of oral and silent reading fluency. Unpublished manuscript. *Price, K. W., Meisinger, E. B., D™Mello, S., & Louwerse, M. M. (2012). Oral and silent reading fluency: An investigation utilizing st ructural equation modeling. Unpublished manuscript. PROFESSIONAL PRESENTATIONS (* = University of Memphis student) National and International Presentations ( N = 25) *Taylor, C. D., Meisinger, E. B., Floyd, R. G., *Lupo, S., *Haley, R., *Alexander, A., *Henson, B., & *Donald, S. (2013, February). Examining the Effects of Instructions and Overt Timing on R-CBM . Poster presented at the annual meeting of the National Associ ation of School Psychologists. Seattle, WA. Schwanenflugel, P. J., Benjamin, R. G., Kuhn, M. R., Meisinger, E. B., Steiner, L., & Groff, C. (2012, December). Rating Reading Expressiveness. Paper presented at the annual meeting of the Literacy Research Association. San Diego, CA. Meisinger, E. B., *Traylor, T. B., *Taylor, C., *Irby, S., & *Norfolk, P. (2012, February). The concurrent validity of reading fluency measures . Poster presented at the annual meeting of the National Association of School Psychologists. Philadelphia, PA. *Traylor, T. B., Meisinger, E. B., & *Price, K. W. (2011, February). Miscue analysis: Assessment of oral reading errors in the classroom. Poster presented at the annual meeting of the National Association of School Psychologists. San Francisco, CA. Meisinger, E. B., *Price, K. W., & *Traylor, T. B. (2010, March). Innovations in the assessment of reading fluency. Paper presented at the annual meeting of the Na tional Association of School Psychologists. Chicago, IL. Kuhn, M. R., Schwanenflugel, P. J., Meisinger, E. B., Gregory, M., & Groff, C. (2009, December). Reconsidering reading fluency . Paper presented at the National Reading Conference, Albuquerque, NM. Meisinger, E. B., Bradley, B. A., Schwanenflugel, P. J., & Kuhn, M. (2009, February). Word callers: A source of resistance to curriculum-based measurement. Paper presented at the annual meeting of the National Association of School Psychologists. Boston, MA. Meisinger, E. B., *Price, K. W., *Davidson, K., *Hingle, C ., *Westmoreland, M., & Parra, G. R. (2009, February). The effects of dysfluency on academic and social/emotional functioning. Paper presented at the annual meeting of the National Associa tion of School Psychologists. Boston, MA. Elizabeth B. Meisinger 5*Price, K. W., Meisinger, E. B., *D™Mello, S., *Traylor, T., & *Daaga, M. (2009, February). Oral and silent reading fluency: Implications for assessment. Poster presented at the annual meeting of the National Association of School Psychologists. Boston, MA. Floyd, R. G., Gregg, N., Keith, T. Z., & Meisinger, E. B. (2008, August). Understanding reading comprehension using abilities from CHC theory. Poster presented at the annual meeting of the American Psychological Association. Boston, MA. Meisinger, E. B., & Schwanenflugel, P. J. (2008, July). The contribution of text fluency to reading comprehension in third and fifth graders . Paper presented at the annual meeting of the Society of the Scientific Studies of Reading. Asheville, NC. Schwanenflugel, P. J., Kuhn, M. R., Meisinger, E. B. , Morris, R., Foels, P., Woo, D.G., & Kim, S. (2008, March). A longitudinal study of the development of reading fluency and comprehension in the early elementary school years. Poster presented at the annual meeting of the American Educational Researchers Association. New York, NY. Meisinger, E. B. (2006, December). The myth and reality of the word caller: Teachers™ concepts of fluency and comprehension. Paper presented at the annual meeting of th e National Reading Conference. Los Angeles, CA. Meisinger, E. B., & Miller, J. (2004, December). Word callers and teachers™ perceptions of fluency and comprehension. Paper presented at the annual meeting of th e National Reading Conference. San Antonio, TX. Meisinger, E. B., Bloom, J. S., Hynd, G.W. & Schwanenflugel, P. J. (2004, November). Reading fluency: Implications for the assessment of children with reading disabilities . Poster session presented at annual meeting of the International Dyslexia Association. Baltimore, MD. Kuhn, M.R., Schwanenflugel, P. J., Morris, R., Woo, D., Meisinger, E. B., & Morrow, L.M. (2004, June). Teaching students to become fluent readers: A study of the effectiveness of two types of fluency-oriented instruction. Paper presented to the Society for the Scientific Study of Reading, Amsterdam, Netherlands. Meisinger, E. B., Bradley, B., Schwanenflugel, P. J., & Stahl, S.A. (2004, April). Quality of the interaction during partner reading. Paper presented to the American Educational Researchers Association. San Diego, CA. Schwanenflugel, P. J., & Meisinger, E. B. (2004, May). Building a theory of reading fluency: Focus on the attention resource model . Invited presentation to the International Reading Association. Toronto, Canada. Stahl, S.A., Schwanenflugel, P. J., Groff, C., Turner, F., & Meisinger, E. B. (2003, December). Developing fluency in the classroom . Presentation to the National Reading Conference. Scottsdale, AZ. Stahl, S.A., Bradley, B., Smith, C., Kuhn, M., Schwanenflugel, P. J., Meisinger, E. B., Morrow, L.M., & Woo, D. (2003, April). Fluency-oriented reading instruction: Instructional effects. Presentation to the American Educational Research Association. Chicago, IL. Schwanenflugel, P. J., Kuhn, M., Meisinger, E. B., Bradley, B., Stahl, S., & Wisenbaker, J. (2003, April). An examination of the attentional resource model and the development of reading fluency. Presentation to the Society for Research in Child Development. Tampa, FL. Elizabeth B. Meisinger 6Meisinger, E. B., Bradley, B., Schwanenflugel, P. J., & Stahl, S. A. (2002, December). Quality of the interaction during partner reading. Paper presented to the National Reading Conference. Miami, FL. Schwanenflugel, P. J., Kuhn, M.R., Meisinger, E. B., Bradley, B. B., Wisenbaker, J., Stahl, S. A., & Morrow, L. M. (2002, August). Developing fluency reading: Theory into practice. A cross-sectional study of the development of reading fluency in high-risk elementary school children in 1dt, 2 nd, and 3 rd grade. Presentation to the meeting of the World Congress of Reading. Edinburgh, Scotland. Meisinger, E. B., Blake, J. J., & Lease, A. M. (2002, April). The predictive utility of classroom racial composition. Poster session at the Conference of Human Development. Charlotte, NC. Schwanenflugel, P. J., Strauss, G., Meisinger, E. B., Kuhn, M., & Stahl, S. A. (2001, October). The influence of unit size of the development of Stroop interference in early reading. Poster session presented to the Cognitive Development Society meeting. Virginia Beach, VA. Regional Presentations (N = 6) Meisinger, E. B. (April, 2010). Reading fluency: A bridge between educational psychology and school psychology . Invited Presentation to the Educational Psychology colloquium at the University of Memphis. Memphis, Tennessee. Meisinger, E. B. (October, 2008). Reading fluency: Normative patterns & assessment implications . Invited Presentation to the Audiology and Speech-Language Pat hology colloquium at the University of Memphis. Memphis, Tennessee. Meisinger, E. B. , Bradley, B. A., Schwanenflugel, P. J., & Kuhn, M. (2008, September). What™s a word caller? Presentation at Child and Family Studies research colloquium at The University of Memphis. Memphis, Tennessee. Meisinger, E. B. , *Price, K. W., *Davidson, K., *Hingle, C ., *Westmoreland, M., & Parra, G. R. (2009, October). Dysfluency in the classroom. Presentation at the Child and Family Studies research colloquium at The University of Memphis. Memphis, Tennessee. Meisinger, E. B. , *Traylor, T. B., *Taylor, C., *Irby, S., & *Norfolk, P. (March, 2012). The classification accuracy of reading fluency measures . Presentation at the Child and Family Studies research colloquium at The University of Memphis. Memphis, Tennessee. Meisinger, E. B. , & Schwanenflugel, P. J. (2007, October). The contributions of text fluency to reading comprehension: Normative findings and implica tions for the assessment of reading disabilities . Presentation at Child and Family Studies resear ch colloquium at The University of Memphis. Memphis,Tennessee. EDITORIAL SERVICE Journal of School Psychology , Editorial Board, June 2011 to present. School Psychology Quarterly , Editorial Board, June 2008 to present. The Reading Teacher, Editorial Board, January 2013 to present. Annals of Dyslexia , Ad-hoc Reviewer. International Journal of Psychology , Ad-hoc Reviewer. Journal of Applied School Psychology , Ad-hoc Reviewer. Elizabeth B. Meisinger 7Journal of Educational Psychology , Ad-hoc Reviewer. Journal of Family Issues, Ad-hoc Reviewer. Journal of School Psychology , Ad-hoc Reviewer. Psychology in the Schools, Ad-hoc Reviewer. School Psychology Quarterly , Ad-hoc Reviewer. RESEARCH GRANT PROPOSALS Submitted Co-Principal Investigator (Schwanenflugel, Principal Investigator), Rating Reading Expressiveness. Institute for Education Sciences. ($1,592,035). Submitted 2013, under review. Principal Investigator, iMaze as a Screening and Progress Monitoring Tool. Institute for Education Sciences. ($1, 597, 494). Submitted June, 201 2, unfunded. Principal Investigator, The Collaborative Fluency Project . Strengthening Communities Initiative Capacity Building Grant. ($17,990). Submitted 2012, unfunded. Principal Investigator, Does Fluency Matter: Exploring the Effects of Reading Fluency on Academic and Social/Emotional Functioning . Society for the Study of School Psychology. ($9,800). Resubmitted 2009, unfunded. Co-Principal Investigator (Schwanenflugel, Principal Investigator), The Wide Listening to Wide Reading: Promoting Oral Language Development and Fluen cy to Improve Reading Comprehension by Late Elementary School. Institute for Education Sciences. ($8,453,677). Submitted 2009, unfunded. Principal Investigator, Does Fluency Matter: Exploring the Effects of Reading Fluency on Academic and Social/Emotional Functioning . Society for the Study of School Psychology. ($9,800). Submitted 2008, unfunded. SUPERVISION OF DISSERTATIONS AND THESES Undergraduate Honors Thesis Member 3 committees at The University of Memphis Master™s Thesis Chair Rachel Dickens, The University of Memphis, proposed 2013 Chair Katherine Price, The University of Memphis, defended 2009 Chair Rachel Peterman, The University of Memphis, defended 2010 Chair Tera Traylor, The University of Memphis, defended 2011 Chair Colby Taylor, The Univer sity of Memphis, defended 2012 Member 7 committees at The University of Memphis Comprehensive Examinations, Major Area Paper, and Specialty Examinations Chair Katherine Price, The University of Memphis, defended 2010 Chair Rachel Peterman, The University of Memphis, defended 2011 Chair Tera Traylor, The University of Memphis, defended 2011 Member 5 committees at The University of Memphis Elizabeth B. Meisinger 8 Dissertations Chair Katherine Price, The University of Memphis, defended 2012 Chair Tera Traylor, The University of Memphis, defended 2013 Chair Rachel Peterman, The Univer sity of Memphis, proposed fall 2012 Member 6 committees at The University of Memphis DEPARTMENT AND UNIVERSITY SERVICE Departmental Committees School Psychology Admissions Committee, The Un iversity of Memphis, August 2007 to present. School Psychology Coordinating Committee, The Un iversity of Memphis, August 2007 to present. Master™s in General Psychology Admissions Committee, The University of Memphis, August 2007 to present. Visiting Professor Search Committee, The Univer sity of Memphis, December 2007 to 2008. Child Clinical Search Committee, The University of Memphis, October 2010 to March 2011. Cognitive Psychology Search Committe e, The University of Memphis, September 2011 to December 2011. Cognitive Psychology Search Committe e, The University of Memphis, September 2012 to January 2013 OTHER PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES Steven A. Stahl Research Grant Co mmittee, International Reading Association, August 2010 to present. Program Committee Member, The Bodine School, Memphis, Tennessee, May 2011 to May 2012. Ted X Steering Committee Member, The Bodine School , Memphis, Tennessee, November 2011 to May 2012. SUPERVISORY EXPERIENCE June 2011 PRACTICUM SUPERVISOR to Advanced Practicum in School Psychology Present Psychological Services Center Department of Psychology University of Memphis Duties: Provided clinical supervision to graduate students in school psychology providing educational remediation or individual therapy services. January 2007 PRACTICUM SUPERVISOR to Intervention in School Psychology Practicum Present Department of Psychology University of Memphis Duties: Provided university-based superv ision to graduate students in school psychology engaged in consultation, group counseling, brief individual counseling, threat assessment, and crisis response. CLINICAL EXPERIENCE August 2006 CENTER MANAGER, Seagoville Youth and Family Center to Dallas Independent School District July 2007 Dallas, Texas Duties: Coordinate and supervise the provision of ment al health services in a school-based outpatient clinic. Conduct intake interviews, assign cases to clinicians, supervise the provision of individual, family, and group Elizabeth B. Meisinger 9counseling, participate in psychiatric evaluations, coll aborate with school personnel, and assist in providing prevention services to the local community. August 2005 PRE-DOCTORAL PSYCHOLOGICAL INTERN to Dallas Independent Sc hool District (APA-Approved internship) July 2006 Dallas, Texas Duties: Primary responsibilities included consultation w ith teachers, parents, and school administrators, individual and group counseling, partic ipation in student support team (SST) meetings, and response to crises. Secondary rotations included assessment for special educa tion eligibility and providing individual and family therapy in a community based mental health outpatient clinic (Youth & Family Center). August 2002 INTERVENTION PRACTICUM STUDENT to School Psychology Clinic at the University of Georgia May 2004 Gaines Elementary School Athens, Georgia Duties: Provided individual therapy to elementary school ag ed children. Clients were seen in either a university or an elementary school setting. Therapeutic issues in cluded anxiety, depression, obsessive thoughts, attention, and behavioral problems. Classroom level interventions , social skills groups, and parent workshops (topics include discipline and homework st rategies) were also conducted. May 2001 ASSESSMENT PRACTICUM STUDENT to School Psychology Clinic at the University of Georgia August 2002 Athens, Georgia Duties: Administration, scoring, and interpretation of individual assessment measures, report writing, and parent feedback were provided to a diverse population of childr en and adolescents. Typical referral questions included learning disabilities, attention-deficit/hyperactivity di sorder, anxiety, depression, and giftedness. HONORS AND AWARDS Early Career Scholar, Society for the Study of School Psychology, 2009 LICENSURE AND CERTIFICATION Tennessee Licensed School Psychologist Tennessee Licensed Psychologist, Health Services Provider #2853 PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS Institute for Intelligent Systems, The University of Memphis International Dyslexia Association International Reading Association National Association of School Psychologists Trainers of School Psychologists