#http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/forms/student.php
Forms: Students - Registrar - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty &amp; Staff Forms Forms Forms Student Veterans Faculty/Staff Parents Former Lambuth University Students Home Registrar Forms Forms: Students Forms: Students Advising/Planning Registration Worksheet Use this form to plan your semester class schedule. Include desired classes and alternatives. The form is maintained by the Academic Counseling Center. The link and information are provided here for your convenience. Audit - Request for Permission to Audit Class Use this form to request permission to audit a course. Instructions accompany this form; be sure to read them as well as bulleted information at the top of the form. Consent to Release Your Education Record DO NOT USE THIS FORM TO REQUEST AN OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPT. (See Official Transcript for information on requesting an official transcript.) Use this form to authorize the release of your education record (ex., grades) to another person (ex., a parent or guardian) other than the University of Memphis and its employees. See Student Consent to Release Education Records for instructions and related information. Credit/No Credit - Request Change to/from Credit/No Credit Use this form to request permission to change from standard grading to credit/no credit grading, or from credit/no credit grading to standard grading. By academic policy, you may not submit this type of request after the last day to add classes for the part of term has passed. This request is allowed for undergraduate courses only. Instructions accompany the form; be sure to read them as well as bulleted information at the top of the form. Credit by Examination - Graduate Use the Credit by Exam form to apply for GRADUATE credit by examination. The form is maintained by the Graduate School. Links and information are provided here for your convenience. Credit by Examination - Undergraduate This is a hard copy form and is available only in the Registrar's Office. Use the form to apply for UNDERGRADUATE credit by examination. See Credit by Exam for complete information and instructions. Excess Transcripts Request - Off-Campus Payment Form Do not use this form if you intend to make your request at the Registrar's Office (003 Wilder Tower). A different payment form is available for you there. Use this form if you have submitted an off-campus request for transcripts and you have requested more than 20 transcripts. You will be charged $5.00 for each transcript over 20 copies. Use this form to make your payment. FERPA Form for non-Student System Users Use this form if you are a student and must view or access student data to perform your University duties (ex., duties expected of a student worker or research assistant). Complete the form, obtain all required signatures, and submit the original to the Registrar's Office, 003 Wilder Tower. Retain a copy of the completed form in your department's files. FERPA Student Researcher Agreement Use this form if you are a student who is requesting access to confidential student records in order to conduct a University-approved research project. The Institutional Review Board (IRB) must sanction your project and the use of the data involved. Submit the completed agreement to Curriculum and Assessment, 217 Administration Building. Full-Time, Online Only Student Immunization Exemption Request Use this form if you are a full-time, online-only student who wants to be exempted from MMR and Varicella (chicken pox) immunization requirements. Refer to the Student Health Center's website for immunization information. Letter of Recommendation Use this form to request a letter of recommendation from a faculty member. Official Transcript - Off-Campus Request for Official Transcript Use this form to mail or fax your request for an OFFICIAL transcript from the UofM. Do not use this form if you intend to make your request at the Registrar's Office (003 Wilder Tower). A different form is available for you there. See Official Transcript . Request for Student's Taxpayer Identification Number &amp; Certification (UofM W-9S) Use this form to submit your social security number (SSN) or individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN) to the UofM so that the University can file a 1098-T (Tuition Statement) form with the IRS and furnish such a statement to you. Instructions are on the form. Deliver or mail the completed form to Registrar's Office or the Finance Office, or FAX it to 901-678-2772. (See Part III of the form for address and FAX information.) *DO NOT EMAIL THE FORM.* Restrict the Release of Directory Information Use this form to prevent your Directory Information from being published in the Campus Directory. Check ALL "acknowledgment" statements. Sign the form. See Release of Student Education Records ( What Is Directory Information? ) for instructions and related information. Forms Forms Student Veterans Faculty/Staff Parents Former Lambuth University Students Calendars Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams. Notice! Check for alerts and reminders. Contact Us Have questions? Need assistance or information? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .