#http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/people/faculty/floyd.php
Randy G. Floyd, Ph.D. - Department of Psychology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research Resources People Faculty Frank Andrasik Karen Linville Baker J. Gayle Beck Kristoffer S. Berlin Jeffrey S. Berman Cheryl Bowers Jason L. G. Braasch Robert Cohen Melloni N. Cook William O. Dwyer Thomas K. Fagan Randy G. Floyd Arthur C. Graesser David A. Houston Kathryn H. Howell Xiangen Hu Stephanie Huette Xu Jiang Roger J. Kreuz Deranda Lester Brook A. Marcks Meghan McDevitt-Murphy Elizabeth B. Meisinger Andrew W. Meyers James G. Murphy Robert A. Neimeyer Andrew M. Olney Philip I. Pavlik Jr. Leslie A. Robinson M. David Rudd Helen J. K. Sable Idia B. Thurston James P. Whelan William H. Zachry Staff Staff Personnel Home Department of Psychology People Randy G. Floyd, Ph.D. Randy G. Floyd, Ph.D. Associate Chair, Professor, Director of School MS/PhD Program Phone 901.678.4846 Email rgfloyd@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2579 Office Psychology Building, Room 332 Office Hours Wednesday, 12-2 p.m. CV Education Ph.D., Indiana State University M.E., Indiana State University B.A., Hendrix College Research Interests Assessment of Cognitive Abilities and Externalizing Behaviors Identification of Reading, Mathematics, and Writing Aptitudes The Process of Professional Publication Service to Journals Dr. Floyd was the Editor of the Journal of School Psychology (2011-2014). Please visit the journal website for more information. Dr. Floyd currently serves on the editorial boards of the Journal of Psychoeducational Assessment, Journal of School Psychology, School Psychology International, School Psychology Review, and Journal of Early Childhood and Infant Psychology. Recent Publications Book Kranzler, J. H., &amp; Floyd, R. G . (2013). Assessing intelligence in children and adolescents: A practical guide. New York, NY: Guilford Press.. For more information visit Journal Articles Maki, K. E., Floyd, R. G., &amp; Roberson, T. (2015). State learning disability eligibility criteria: A comprehensive review. School Psychology Quarterl y. doi: 10.1037/spq0000109. Kranzler, J. H., Benson, N., &amp; Floyd, R. G. (2015). Using estimated factor scores from a bifactor analysis to examine the unique effects of the latent variables measured by the WAIS-IV on academic achievement. Psychological Assessment. doi: /10.1037/pas0000119. Norfolk, P. A., Farmer, R. L., Floyd, R. G., Woods, I. L., Hawkins, H. K., &amp; Irby, S. M. (2015). Norm block sample sizes: A review of 17 individually administered intelligence tests. Journal of Psychoeducational Assessment, 33, 544-555. Floyd, R. G., Shands, E. I., Phillips, J., Autry, B., Mosteller, J., Alfonso, V., *Skinner, M., &amp; Irby, S. M. (2015). A systematic review and evaluation of the technical characteristics of adaptive behavior scales. Journal of Applied School Psychology, 31, 83-113. Hajovsky, D. B., Reynolds, M. R., Floyd, R. G., Turek, J. J., &amp; Keith, T. Z. (2014). A multigroup investigation of latent cognitive abilities and reading achievement relations. School Psychology Review, 43, 385–406. Farmer, R. L., Floyd, R. G., Reynolds, M. R., &amp; Kranzler, J. H. (2014). IQs are very strong but imperfect indicators of psychometric g: Results from joint confirmatory factor analysis. Psychology in the Schools, 51, 801–813. Floyd, R. G., Reynolds, M. R., Farmer, R. L., &amp; Kranzler, J. H. (2013). Are the general factors from different child and adolescent intelligence tests the same? Results from a five-sample, six-test analysis. School Psychology Review, 42, 383-401. Taylor, C. T., Meisinger, E. B., &amp; Floyd, R. G. (2013). Variations in directions and overt timing on oral reading accuracy, fluency, and prosody. School Psychology Review, 42, 437-447. Reynolds, M. R., Floyd, R. G., &amp; Niileksela, C. R. (2013). How well is psychometric g indexed by global composites? Evidence from three popular intelligence tests. Psychological Assessment, 25, 1314-1321. Bergeron, R., &amp; Floyd, R. G. (2013). Individual part score profiles of children with intellectual disability: A descriptive analysis across three intelligence tests. School Psychology Review, 42, 22-38. Honors Dr. Floyd is a Fellow of the American Psychological Association Division 16 (School Psychology) and an elected member of the Society for the Study of School Psychology. Courses Taught PSYC 7803/8803 Psychoeductional Assessment I: Cognitive and Achievement Assessment PSYC 7804/8804 Psychoeducational Assessment II: Behavioral and Emotional Assessment PSYC 7430/8430 Clinical Assessment: Ability and Achievement PSYC 7614/8614 Practicum in Psychoeducational Assessment PSYC 7207/8207 Developmental Psychology PSYC 4020 Abnormal Child Psychology PSYC 3000 Introduction to Psychological Research PSYC 3010 Research and Statistics Learn more about the University of Memphis School Psychology Programs here . People Faculty Frank Andrasik Karen Linville Baker J. Gayle Beck Kristoffer S. Berlin Jeffrey S. Berman Cheryl Bowers Jason L. G. Braasch Robert Cohen Melloni N. Cook William O. Dwyer Thomas K. Fagan Randy G. Floyd Arthur C. Graesser David A. Houston Kathryn H. Howell Xiangen Hu Stephanie Huette Xu Jiang Roger J. Kreuz Deranda Lester Brook A. Marcks Meghan McDevitt-Murphy Elizabeth B. Meisinger Andrew W. Meyers James G. Murphy Robert A. Neimeyer Andrew M. Olney Philip I. Pavlik Jr. Leslie A. Robinson M. David Rudd Helen J. K. Sable Idia B. Thurston James P. Whelan William H. Zachry Staff Staff Personnel Psychology Graduate Programs Application Click on link to Apply to the Department of Psychology Graduate Program The Psychological Services Center PSC provides general outpatient psychotherapeutic and psychological assessment services to individuals and families Teaching Take-Out This website is a resource for busy teachers who want to enrich their classes while preserving the time they need for research and other important professional activities. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/29/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .