#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/general.php
General Description - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog General Description General Description From the opening of its doors in 1912 as a normal school for training teachers to its present status as one of Tennessee's two comprehensive universities, the University of Memphis has been thrust forward by the growth of Memphis and the Mid-South. A town oriented to a rural economy and culture in 1900 grew into a large urban and commercial center mid-century, and the city's public institution of higher learning experienced comparable growth. The metropolitan and regional requirements for more highly trained university graduates have, of necessity, caused the University to expand all its offerings in arts and sciences, business, the fine arts, education, engineering and technology, law, and several special professional fields. Degrees range from the baccalaureate through the doctorate. Approximately 80 percent of the full-time faculty have earned the highest possible degree in their fields. The University strives to optimize its resources in its quest for excellence through teaching, research and service. With an enrollment of over 20,000, the University of Memphis is committed to developing programs of the highest caliber, for only through such a commitment will it be a standard of quality in higher education for the citizens of our service area. As the comprehensive university of the State University and Community College System of Tennessee, the University of Memphis is striving to increase the ratio of doctoral programs it offers, which will also require an increased emphasis on research and scholarship activity. The University is committed to serving a diverse student body of all races, sexes and nationalities. Our students are expected, upon graduation, to be able to compete effectively with their counterparts from any other respected university in the nation. History The roots of the University of Memphis date back to September 12,1912, with the establishment and beginning of classes at West Tennessee State Normal School, which provided for the training of primary and secondary education teachers. However, the seeds for the normal school's creation were sown three years earlier, in 1909, when the Tennessee General Assembly passed a General Education law calling for establishment and maintenance of three normal schools, one school located in each of the three grand divisions of the state. The eastern edge of Memphis became the site for West Tennessee State Normal School, which in 1929 became West Tennessee State Teachers College. In 1941, the college expanded its liberal arts curriculum, and the name was changed to Memphis State College--an institution serving three to four thousand students. The undergraduate program was reorganized into three schools and a graduate school was added in 1951. Memphis State achieved university status in 1957, and on July 1, 1994, the name was officially changed to the University of Memphis. Governing Body The governance and control of the University of Memphis is vested in the Tennessee Board of Regents. The composition and powers of the Board are set forth in Tennessee Code Annotated 49-8-201 through 49-8-203. The Board consists of 18 members; 12 lay citizens appointed for six-year terms by the Governor from each congressional district and grand division of the State; one faculty member appointed for a one-year term; one student appointed for a one-year term by the Governor from among the System institution; and four ex officio members--the Governor, Commissioner of Education, Commissioner of Agriculture, and the Executive Director of the Tennessee Higher Education Commission. Organization The schools and colleges that make up the University are the Graduate School, the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law, the University College, the Loewenberg School of Nursing, the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders, School of Public Health, and five colleges offering graduate and undergraduate programs: the College of Arts and Sciences, the Fogelman College of Business and Economics, the College of Communication and Fine Arts, the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences, and the Herff College of Engineering. The institution also offers a University Honors Program for highly motivated students seeking exceptional and challenging programs of study in a variety of disciplines. The colleges, departments, and the undergraduate degree programs they offer are described in more detail in the Colleges and Degree Programs section of this Catalog. Course Descriptions Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/29/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .