#http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/resources/po_oos.php
Parents of Out of State Students - Parent &amp; Family Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parent &amp; Family Services About Events Communication Resources Get Involved Give Back Visit UofM Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Home Parent &amp; Family Services Resources Parents of Out of State Students Parents of Out of State Students We know that you may be apprehensive about sending your student to school in another state. To ease some of your fears, we have compiled the information below to make that transition easier for you as you help your student through to graduation. Financial Aid and Scholarships The Office of Financial Aid administers federal, state, and institutional aid programs to qualified students. To receive financial aid, qualified students must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) . For more information on your student applying for and receiving financial aid, please click here . The Undergraduate Scholarship Office awards hundreds of academic scholarships each year to entering freshmen. All scholarships are awarded for the academic year (Fall and Spring semesters). Scholarships are awarded based on information submitted on the University of Memphis admissions application. A separate scholarship application is not required unless noted. The deadline for admission to the University of Memphis for scholarship consideration is December 1. There are also non-academic and scholarship opportunities for current students. For a list of scholarships and more information on scholarship offers, please click here . For information on cost of attendance , please visit the Financial Aid website or click here . Parent Handbook: Financial Aid Awards and Scholarships New Student and Parent Orientation Students and parents are encouraged to attend orientation, as it prepares both for college life at the University of Memphis. Parents have a chance to learn about their student’s new home and ask all the questions they like. For more information on New Student Orientation, please click here . For more information on Parent Orientation, please click here. Transportation General parking is available on campus and a permit is included in the cost of tuition. Students will receive a permit in the mail prior to their first semester of classes. If registered before the deadline, students will receive subsequent permit stickers for the remaining semesters that they are enrolled. If students would like to park in priority lots, including the parking garages, they will need to apply for a priority parking permit with the Parking Services office. These spots are limited and students should apply as soon as possible for these permits. Parent Handbook: Parking and Transportation Airport The Memphis International Airport is located approximately 15 to 20 minutes from the University of Memphis campus. For more information on airlines, parking or airport information, please visit the Memphis International Airport website . Bus Memphis plays host to two major bus companies with links to a variety of destinations. The Greyhound bus terminal is located at 3033 Airways Blvd. near the airport. The Megabus company also operates in Memphis and their terminal is located in the MATA North End Terminal in downtown at the corner of 2nd Street and Auction Avenue. Train Memphis is home to a Amtrak station which operates a passenger train that travels north to Chicago, IL and south to New Orleans, LA. The train makes several stops along the way. The station is located in downtown Memphis near the corner of Main Street and G.E. Patterson Avenue and is approximately 20 minutes from campus. For more information on train schedules and tickets, please visit the Amtrak website . *The University of Memphis does not endorse the companies above, but is simply providing information. Health Services We encourage all of our students to have a local physician, but they may also take advantage of the Student Health Center on campus that provide minor medical care to students, faculty and staff. For more information on University health services and local health services, please click here . Parent Handbook: Health Resources Visiting Campus For visitors who are not familiar with The UofM campus, the Visitor Information Center at 3641 Central Avenue is a great place to start your visit. Directions to Campus Map of Campus Visitor Parking Tour of Campus We encourage all of our parents and students to take time to visit our beautiful campus. Student-led tours are held Monday through Friday at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm and the first Saturday of each month at 9:30 am (with the exception of holiday weekends &amp; university closings ) To get more information or to schedule a tour, please click here . Living On and Off Campus We encourage students to live on campus their first year of college as it gives them the opportunity to fully immerse themselves in the college experience and to get involved on campus. For more information on the residence options available to students, please visit the Residence Life web site . For students who live off campus, there are a variety of options within walking distance or a short drive from the University. Adult and Commuter Student Services manages a site dedicated to off-campus housing . Please review our Parents of Commuter Students page as well. Meal Plans Whether living on or off campus, there are a variety of meal plan options for all of our students. Please click here to view the various options. Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Contact Us Got questions, comments, or concerns? We're here to help! Parent &amp; Family E-news Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News. Parent &amp; Family Handbook Learn about opportunities and services available to students. In the Now: September FAQs What you need to know this month to help you help your student Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .