#http://www.memphis.edu/bitm/faculty/lloydbrooks.php
Lloyd Brooks - BIT - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Business Information and Technology Welcome About Admissions Programs Courses Faculty Research FCBE Faculty Lloyd Brooks Judith Brown Jasbir Dhaliwal Mark Gillenson Wade M Jackson Brian Janz Bill Kettinger Naveen Kumar Richard Kumi Euntae "Ted" Lee Jong Seok Lee Robin Poston Sandra Richardson Margaret Schultz Judith Simon Thomas Stafford Chen Zhang Home BIT Faculty Lloyd Brooks Lloyd Brooks Professor and Associate Dean for Academic Programs Phone 901.678.5402 Email lbrooks@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.3459 Office 426b Fogelman Administration Building Office Hours By Appointment About Lloyd Brooks Lloyd D. Brooks received his Ed.D. (1971) and MS (1968) degrees from The University of Tennessee in Knoxville and BS degree (1964) from Middle Tennessee State University in Murfreesboro. Teaching experience includes positions at the high school, business college, junior college, and university levels. He has performed consulting services with several companies and agencies including the United States Postal Service, State Department of Education, Tennessee Office of Teacher Licensure, Dobbs House International, Memphis City Government, and the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. Dr. Brooks joined the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics at The University of Memphis in 1971. Teaching interests include database management, management of information technology systems, teaching methodology, integrated software applications, and web site development. He served as Department Chair for the Business Information and Technology Department and currently serves as Interim Associate Dean in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics and was awarded the Michael Cook Professorship for Distinguished Leadership. He is also Director of Assessment for the Fogelman College. Dr. Brooks has authored 23 textbooks in the microcomputer applications, integrated software applications, and business financial mathematics areas. He has also published in several professional journals and conference proceedings from national and international professional associations. He has served as President of several professional organizations including the Tennessee Business Education Association, Southern Business Education, Association, Information Systems Academic Heads International, and the International Association of Computer Information Systems. He has been honored with the National Data Educator of the Year Award and Gibson Award by the International Association of Computer Information Systems. Other awards include selection for the 2004 University of Memphis Distinguished Advising Award and selection for a 2002 Suzanne Downs Palmer Professorship honor. He was also selected for participation in the Fogelman College Study Abroad Programs for International Business in New Delhi, India; in Shanghai, China, and South America. His current research interests include studies relating to perceptions toward online courses and degree programs. Dr. Brooks currently serves as Project Director for two grants from the Tennessee State Department of Education and has served as Principal Investigator for grants totaling over $1.6 million since employment at the University. Faculty Lloyd Brooks Judith Brown Jasbir Dhaliwal Mark Gillenson Wade M Jackson Brian Janz Bill Kettinger Naveen Kumar Richard Kumi Euntae "Ted" Lee Jong Seok Lee Robin Poston Sandra Richardson Margaret Schultz Judith Simon Thomas Stafford Chen Zhang BIT News Publications, recognitions and spotlights about faculty and students of the BIT department. BIT Events Find out what's happening at the department and visit our weekly colloquium. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/23/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .