#http://www.memphis.edu/conferences/facilities/zone.php
The Zone - Conference &amp; Event Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Conference &amp; Event Services Facilities Conference Services Internal Scheduling Contact Us Facilities FedEx Institute of Technology The Zone Methodist Presentation Theatre Video Conference Center Digital Living Room Fishbowl Classrooms Breakout Rooms Rental Rates University Center UC Ballroom UC Theatre Fountain View Suite Senate Chamber Other meeting rooms Rental Rates Rose Theatre Access to Loading Dock Basic Lighting Setup Directions Entertainment Lobby Site Map (to scale) Seating Chart Technical Capabilities Home Conference &amp; Event Services Facilities The Zone The Zone Room Details Seats 190 Fixed tiered seating with fixed tables/counters Private Green Room for speakers PC, DVD, VHS Wireless Keyboard Video Conferencing Speaker control of entire room, including lights, sound, computer, and video feed, from specially designed touch panel podium Hydraulic powered podium can be raised or lowered electronically Large projection screen can display VHS, DVD, and computing Web cam directly in front of speaker, making it possible to cast the events around the globe via the web Four podium positions on the speaker level to accommodate debates and other events Largest implementation in the world of the BOSE Tower Speaker System Two plasma screens in front of speaker; used for PowerPoint notes, supplemental information, or display of presentation shown to audience Touch panel screens in several locations Each seat is equipped with a Digital Congress Unit by Philips Second largest implementation of digital congress units outside the United Nations Building Units allow audience members to speak and be seen by the entire group in the Zone. When requested, microphones will go live and cameras in the room will zoom in an individual, projecting their images onto the large screen at the front of the room Space Capacity Chart 2nd Floor Room Square Feet Theater Classroom Conference Banquet Reception The Zone 5326 190 190 n/a n/a n/a Fishbowl (Room 203) 1149 70 40 24 70 75 Fishbowl (Room 205) 865 60 30 24 50 50 Fishbowl (Room 203/205) 2014 130 60 48 120 150 Room 225 1126 60 50 26 40 65 Room 227 1159 60 50 26 40 65 Collaboration Space Contact Conference Planning &amp; Operations for more information. Floor Layout Facilities FedEx Institute of Technology The Zone Methodist Presentation Theatre Video Conference Center Digital Living Room Fishbowl Classrooms Breakout Rooms Rental Rates University Center UC Ballroom UC Theatre Fountain View Suite Senate Chamber Other meeting rooms Rental Rates Rose Theatre Access to Loading Dock Basic Lighting Setup Directions Entertainment Lobby Site Map (to scale) Seating Chart Technical Capabilities Cotton Institute The ACSA International Cotton Institute is an eight week residential program taking student from field to fabric. University Center The University Center, together with its sister facility, the Michael D. Rose Theatre, form the cultural heart of campus. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .