#http://www.memphis.edu/workforce/flsa-info.php
Fair Labor Standards Act Revisions - Workforce Management - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Workforce Management Staff Directory Pay Bands Background Check FLSA Links Human Resources Home Workforce Management Fair Labor Standards Act Revisions Fair Labor Standards Act Revisions Background National newscasts have given a lot of time to the revisions to the "white collar exemptions" to the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) which went into effect August 23, 2004 . These revisions have caused some changes for some employees at the University of Memphis . The FLSA provides that time records must be kept and overtime paid for all employees except those whose duties meet certain tests. Types of exemptions include professional, executive, administrative and certain types of computer positions. Teachers are exempt under the professional test. One of the most significant changes is the minimum salary requirement for employees who are exempt from the overtime provisions of the law. An employee must make a salary of at least $455 per week ($1,972 per month or $23,660 per year) to continue to be exempt. This is an absolute amount, so if an employee works half time and makes half this amount, that employee is no longer exempt. Teachers are excluded from this minimum salary requirement. Employee's duties must also pass one of the exemption tests. Impact on University of Memphis Several different groups of employees have been affected at UofM. Employees in several categories have been asked to provide current information on their duties and to complete a questionnaire to ensure that they retain their exempt status. Some part-time monthly regular employees have been changed to hourly because they do not meet the new salary requirement. Some temporary monthly employees are being changed to hourly because they do not meet the new salary requirement. Graduate Assistants Graduate Teaching Assistants: No Change Graduate Assistants - Instructions Assistance: If the GA has contact with students, same as Teaching GAs. If there is no student contact, same as Service GAs. Graduate Research Assistants: If the GA is working on research for which they will receive a benefit, i.e., graduate project, class credit, publication credit, then no change. If other research, same as Service GAs. Graduate Assistants - Service: These employees are non-exempt. Positions that Change from Exempt to Non-Exempt Employees whose positions change from exempt to non-exempt must follow the rules listed below. Must keep time records Must be paid overtime for any hours over 40 in a work week Must be paid at least minimum wage for each hour worked Regular employees will be grandfathered on the monthly pay plan to keep the same benefits. Both regular employees and non-exempt Graduate Assistants will be paid under the provision in FLSA for paying a "salary for fluctuating hours" to non-exempt employees. WorkforUM Job announcements for the University of Memphis University Org Charts Organizational charts on demand for University departments Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .