#http://umwa.memphis.edu/umpolicies//UM1309.htm
UM1309 - University Travel - The University of Memphis The University of Memphis University Travel POLICIES Issued:&nbsp June 19, 2014 Responsible Official:&nbsp Vice President for Business & Finance Responsible Office:&nbsp Accounting Office Policy Statement Policy Statement This policy applies to the travel of all employees of The University of Memphis in the performance of their official duties. Provisions of this policy also may apply to individuals other than employees who are authorized to travel at University expense. Departments may adopt more restrictive policies than those included in this document. Purchasing cards may be used for the payment of registration fees. Purchasing cards may not be used for expenses incurred during actual travel. Authorization for travel will not be granted and expenses will not be reimbursed unless the travel is made and reimbursement claimed according to this document. These procedures and reimbursement rates will be consistent with the Comprehensive Travel Regulations of the State of Tennessee and the travel policy of the Tennessee Board of Regents (TBR). Current reimbursement rates can be found in the Travel Rate Schedule . Reimbursement for expenses related to authorized travel cannot be made for amounts above the maximum limitations detailed in the schedule. The University reimburses, as funds are available, only ordinary and necessary reasonable business expenses incurred by employees for or on behalf of the University; the expenses must not be ones that would have otherwise been paid by the employee. Receipts are required to document expenses except where noted. PRINCIPLES: 1. Travel must be consistent with the educational, research, and professional needs of the University. 2. Employees must: Conduct University business with integrity, in compliance with applicable laws, policies, and procedures, and in a manner that excludes considerations of personal advantage. Exercise good judgment and travel on University business in a cost-efficient manner. Purpose &nbsp To facilitate effective and economical University travel while maintaining the necessary controls for accountability. The University needs to comply with TBR policies and state and federal law and to the greatest extent possible, minimize administrative costs. Definitions Official Travel Status The employee is considered on official travel status at the time of departure from the employee's official work station or residence, whichever is applicable, for traveling on University business. Banner Finance Self Service A module within the MyMemphis portal which is used to process electronic documents, such as budget revisions and purchase orders for travel. Authorized Travel Authorized travel will be limited to the following: 1. Travel which is necessary for the proper execution of official University business, or in justifiable pursuit of the University's educational and research objectives; 2. Travel to meetings and conferences of a professional nature which will increase the attending employee's usefulness to the University. Corporate Credit Cards Eligible employees can receive a Corporate Credit Card. The employee is responsible for all charges to the credit cards. Only actual business expenses incurred will be reimbursed. See the University Policy on Corporate Credit Cards . Business Expenses Business expenses should be ordinary and necessary, having a &ldquo;bona-fide&rdquo; business purpose and otherwise qualify as a deductible expense per the Internal Revenue Code (IRC). Ordinary Expenses Ordinary expenses are those that are common and acceptable in one&rsquo;s trade, business, or profession. Necessary Expenses Necessary expenses are those that are helpful and appropriate in one&rsquo;s trade, business, or profession; an expense does not have to be required to be considered &ldquo;necessary&rdquo;. Procedures Authorization of Travel Approving Authorities - The President or President's designees will have authority to approve travel by employees of the University. The President has authorized the department or activity head (or approved &quot;designee&quot;) to approve in-state and out-of-state travel. All authorizations must be approved by the next higher authority over the requester either verbally, by e-mail or in writing. An approved fully executed purchase order serves as official documentation of approval and should be completed prior to travel departure date. This authorization is required for all University business travel regardless of funding source i.e., external. Expenses incurred for travel that are not properly authorized or for an incomplete travel purchase order are the personal responsibility of the traveler. In-State Travel - All employees must obtain prior authorization for in-state travel by the employee's appropriate approving authority. A claim for reimbursement involving only occasional local mileage and/or parking within 85 miles one-way (170 miles round-trip) may be processed without a travel purchase order. In these cases, write &quot;none&quot; for the travel purchase order on the claim form. Out-of-State Travel - All employees must obtain prior authorization for out-of-state travel, which must be approved by the employee's appropriate approving authority. If, in the normal course of official business, the employee must routinely travel into another state and back in the same day, such travel will be considered in-state travel and shall be subject to the in-state travel provisions. This exception applies for trips which do not exceed 50 miles into another state. Alaska, Hawaii, and Out-of-Country Travel - Authorization for travel by an employee to Alaska, Hawaii, and out-of-country will be subject to approval by the President or designee, Provost/Vice President, and Dean/Director. If restricted funds are used, Research Support Services approval is also required. Current year travel purchase orders are processed and system-routed as stated above, based on international account codes. Purchase orders should be submitted for approval at least 21 days prior to travel departure date. Refer to University policy UM1460 International Travel for University of Memphis Students for information regarding international travel for students and/or faculty (i.e., study abroad programs). Travel Purchase Orders - Travel purchase orders (PO) should be submitted online by accessing the purchase order link located in Banner Finance Self Service via the MyMemphis portal. Travel purchase orders are submitted electronically by the traveler's department, approved by the appropriate officials and forwarded to the Accounting Office for final processing. For future fiscal year travel, the department is required to complete the Request for Future Year Travel Authorization form. If the future year request involves international travel, the Request for Future Year Travel Authorization form should be submitted to the President's office at least twenty-one (21) days before the approval is required. The travel PO should include the purpose of the trip, destinations, date of departure and return, mode of transportation, and estimated expenses. Claims for reimbursement for travel expenses which exceed the amount approved on the original travel PO will not be paid unless additional funds are added to the PO or authorized signature to exceed PO is included on Claim for Traveling Expenses form. Group Travel Purchase Orders - Purchase Orders will usually be granted on an individual basis. One authorization may be granted when a group is traveling together or when more than one person may undertake travel at different dates for the same purpose. This provision will usually apply to student groups, field travel for research projects, and similar situations. In these cases, the PO should contain the name and University identification number of one primary person and clearly identify in the document text section of the PO, the group which will be involved in the travel or the names of all individuals who will submit travel claims under the purchase order. Special arrangements for group travel should be initiated through University Procurement Services before entering into any agreements. Blanket Travel Purchase Orders - Blanket travel purchase orders can be obtained for employees required to make frequent trips for the same purpose. The purchase order must show the name of the person traveling, purpose of the trips, destinations, dates of departure and return, mode of transportation, and estimated expenses. Transportation General - All travel must be by the most direct or economical route possible and any employee who travels by an indirect route must bear any extra expense occasioned thereby. When work is performed by an employee en route to or from the official station, reimbursable mileage is computed by deducting the employee's normal commuting mileage from the actual mileage driven in performing the work en route to or from the official station. For example, if an employee normally commutes 10 miles (20 miles round-trip), and performs work on the way home from the official station which results in 12 miles driven, the mileage reimbursement will be for 2 miles only, as that is the amount of mileage in excess of the employee's normal commute. In no instance shall mileage claimed for reimbursement exceed actual miles traveled. The employee should attach an online destination estimate, such as GoogleMaps, MapQuest, etc. Authorized travel does not include transportation to and from the employee's official work station. The official work station of an employee will be designated by the approving authority. It is normally expected that the official work station is that location at which the employee spends greater than 50% of his or her working time. For an employee required to be on call (as determined by his or her job description), either overnight or on weekends, the official work station of the employee while on call becomes his or her residence, or the location at which the employee receives the call. Reimbursable mileage begins at the location at which the employee receives the call. Mode of Transportation - Transportation for employees traveling singly should be by common carrier (air, train, or bus) whenever practical. The use of air travel is recommended when time is an important factor or when the trip is so long that other methods of travel would increase the subsistence expense. Automobile transportation may be used to save time when common carrier transportation cannot be satisfactorily scheduled, or to reduce expenses when two or more employees are making the trip. Reimbursement for personal vehicle use may be claimed at the lesser of the standard mileage rate or comparable cost of commercial transportation including taxi fares and/or limousine charges. Common Carrier Travel - When travel is by common carrier, the fare must not exceed the standard coach fare charged to the general public, and advantage must be taken of round trip rates when available. The University has an arrangement with an Authorized Travel Agency to bill airline tickets directly to the University, if the employee has an approved travel PO number. Travelers booking their airline tickets directly are not eligible to receive an advance to pay the cost of the ticket prior to the completion of the travel. The employee's copy of the ticket (passenger receipt) or other acceptable receipt must be submitted on the Claim for Traveling Expenses form. Charges for trip insurance are not reimbursable. The State of Tennessee is self-insured and does not purchase separate insurance, and therefore will not reimburse for insurance purchases made for trips. Baggage Fees &ndash; Baggage fees will be allowed when necessary. A receipt is required for reimbursement. Chartered Aircraft - Generally, faculty and staff (including group travel and athletics) whose duties require travel will use commercial ground and air carriers or a university vehicle. However, a chartered aircraft may be used if time and/or distance preclude ground travel or if a commercial air service is either unavailable or does not meet the needs of the traveler(s). The Tennessee Board of Regents provides specific guidelines at . Use of State Aircraft - Specific guidelines on the Use of State Aircraft can be found at . Limousine and Taxi Service - The employee will be reimbursed for one of the following expenses in traveling to and from the common carrier including, but not limited to the reasonable cost of one of the following options: 1. Reasonable cost of one round trip taxi fare 2. Parking of the employee's personal car at the location of the common carrier plus mileage of one round trip 3. Mileage of two round trips in the employee's personal car (subject to a 200-mile maximum for two round trips) Receipts must be furnished on airport and hotel parking. After arrival at a destination, necessary taxi fares for traveling between hotel or lodging and meeting or conference will be allowed. No receipt is required for reimbursement of reasonable taxi fares. Personal taxi expenses will not be reimbursed. Automobile Travel - When travel by automobile is appropriate employees may be reimbursed a mileage allowance for the use of personally-owned automobiles: 1. State-Owned Automobiles- When transportation is by state-owned automobile, all necessary repair bills, tolls, parking, gasoline, and storage expenses are allowable. When using motor pool automobiles, employees will be furnished with courtesy cards for purchase of gasoline, oil, and other automobile services, and such expenses should not be claimed by employees as travel expenses. Emergency out-of-pocket expenses, such as towing or emergency repairs, will be reimbursed, but must be accompanied by proper receipt identifying the automobile and itemizing the services. Such expenditures must be of an emergency nature when immediate service is required and access to a state facility is not possible. Major repairs should be approved by campus officials prior to work being performed. Such expenditures are allowed, but should be filed for reimbursement separately. Parking, tolls, and ferry fees should be claimed for reimbursement on the standard Claim for Traveling Expenses form when using a State owned automobile. 2. Personally-Owned Automobiles - Mileage reimbursement rates are provided on the Travel Rate Schedule. The authorized mileage allowance includes all operating expenses such as gas, oil, and repairs precluding any separate claim for such item. 3. Courtesy Vehicle - If a staff member has a &ldquo;courtesy vehicle&rdquo; due to his or her association with the institution, the maximum rate allowed will be the rate allowed under the Tennessee Board of Regents General Travel Policies and Procedures, less seven cents per mile. Departments may choose to reimburse at a lower rate. 4. Commuter Mileage - Procedures for calculating mileage are based on the fact that the State is prohibited from reimbursing employees for normal commuting mileage. a. If an employee begins or ends a trip at his/her official station, reimbursable mileage will be the mileage from the official station to the destination. b. If work is performed by an employee en route to or from his/her official station, reimbursable mileage is computed by deducting the employee's normal commuting mileage from the actual mileage driven c. If an employee begins or ends his/her trip at his/her residence without stopping at his/her official stations, reimbursable mileage will be the lesser of the mileage from the employee's residence to his/her destination or his/her official station to the destination. On weekends and holidays, the employee may typically be reimbursed for actual mileage from his/her residence to the destination. d. If an employee travels between destinations without returning to his/her official station or his/her residence, reimbursable mileage is the actual mileage between those destinations. 5. Travel Claim - The Claim for Traveling Expenses form must detail the employee's travel agenda and must show the official business mileage. Business mileage as indicated by the University&rsquo;s mileage chart, and/or calculated by an online destination estimator, such as GoogleMaps, MapQuest, etc. Attach a copy of the mileage documentation to the travel claim. Vicinity mileage must be reported on a separate line and not included with point-to-point mileage. Only mileage on official business may be claimed. A mileage chart detailing miles between Memphis and many other cities is available in the Travel Rate Schedule. 6. Hotel Parking - Necessary charges for hotel parking will be allowed. When hotel parking is not listed on the hotel bill, receipts must be furnished. 7. Unnecessary Meals and Lodging Expenses - Unnecessary meals and lodging expenses which are incurred by the use of an automobile for reasons of the employee's personal convenience, or which are due to travel by an indirect route will not be reimbursed. Car Rentals at Destination - Charges for automobile rental will be allowed whenever it is more economical than alternative methods of transportation or whenever it is the only practical means of transportation and when supported by itemized receipts. Information on car rental can be obtained on the Accounting Office website . Related fuel charges are reimbursable with a receipt. Whenever possible, employees should refuel before returning vehicles. In accordance with State regulations, charges for insurance for rented automobiles are not reimbursable. The State of Tennessee is self-insured and does not purchase separate insurance, and therefore will not reimburse for insurance purchases made for rental vehicles. Charges for optional services, such as a GPS, are also not reimbursable. If the Corporate Credit Card is used to rent the automobile, auto rental insurance is included. Otherwise, the traveler&rsquo;s personal insurance is in effect for any damages. Additional information is available at Toll and Ferry Fees - Reasonable tolls and ferry fees will be allowed when necessary. A receipt is not required for reimbursement. Parking Fees - Parking fees for employees at their regular work site will not be reimbursed. However, if an employee is required to leave his or her office on University business and later returns, the actual additional charge required to park will be reimbursed up to the maximum in the Travel Rate Schedule . Those employees required to use commercial parking facilities in the daily performance of duties, or while on travel status, will be reimbursed up to the maximum in the Travel Rate Schedule . A receipt is required if the fee exceeds the maximum indicated per day. If travel is by common carrier, the employee will be reimbursed for expenses in traveling to and from the common carrier including parking expenses. Receipts must be furnished for airport and hotel parking. Lodging General - Lodging expenses will be reimbursable to the maximum in the Travel Rate Schedule when supported by original receipts detailing daily room rates. Higher rates for lodging at the location of a convention will be allowed up to the amount shown in the convention brochure or conference hotel reservation form, if the brochure is submitted with the claim form. If more than one rate is shown, the highest rate is the amount in which the reimbursement is limited without justification. The employee should attempt to receive a government rate for lodging. In-State Lodging - Lodging expenses incurred within the state while on authorized travel will be reimbursable to the maximum in the Travel Rate Schedule . Out-of-State Lodging - Lodging expenses incurred out of the state while on authorized travel will be reimbursable to the maximum in the Travel Rate Schedule . The maximum reimbursement rates for out-of-state travel are the same as those maintained by the U.S. General Services Administration for federal employees within the continental United States (CONUS). The CONUS list contains a standard reimbursement rate for lodging and meals and incidentals, and several pages of exceptions. Most destinations for out-of-state travel fall within the list of exceptions. En route lodging will be allowed for only one day each way on trips of long duration. Out of Country Lodging &ndash; Lodging expenses incurred while out of the country will be reimbursed at actual expenses with receipts. Hotel-Related Taxes - Taxes on lodging costs will be reimbursable. Additional Lodging Expense - To request a lodging rate exception, the traveler should include a brief explanation in the comments section of the travel claim if: 1. The highest single rate shown in the convention brochure is unavailable. Otherwise, reimbursement will be limited to the applicable lodging rate. 2. The convention brochure does not provide a rate. 3. Government rates are not honored. 4. The rate exceeds the CONUS maximum. Shared Lodging - When employees share a hotel room, both employees should include an explanation on his/her travel claim detailing dates and other employees with whom the room was shared. The lodging cost may be claimed by the employee who incurred the cost, or one half the double occupancy charges may be allowable for each employee. When a room is shared with other than a university employee on authorized travel, the total cost of the room will be allowed, subject to the maximum as stated on the Travel Rate Schedule for in-state and CONUS rate for out of state. The receipt for the entire amount should be submitted with the travel claim form. Meals and Incidental Expenses In-State and Out-of-State Meals - Meals while on authorized overnight travel will be reimbursed, subject to the meal allowance provided on the Travel Rate Schedule . The maximum per diem rates include a fixed allowance for meals and for incidental expenses (M&amp;I). The M&amp;I rate, or fraction thereof, is payable to the traveler without itemization of expenses or receipts. Incidentals are intended to include miscellaneous costs associated with travel such as tips for baggage handling, phone call home, etc. Out of Country Meals &ndash; Meals while out of the country are reimbursed at actual expense with receipts. If no receipts are provided, meals are subject to the meal allowance provided on the Travel Rate Schedule . The M&amp;I rates for out-of-state travel are the same as those for federal employees, and are available on the General Services Administration's CONUS web site. As with lodging, there is a standard rate for the continental United States (CONUS). Reimbursement for meals and incidentals for the day of departure shall be three-fourths of the appropriate M&amp;I rate (either for the in-state rate or CONUS rate for out-of-state travel) at the rate prescribed for the lodging location. Reimbursement for the M&amp;I for the day of return shall be three-fourths of the M&amp;I rate applicable to the preceding calendar day. To assist in this calculation, a table listing partial per diem rates for meals and incidentals for in-state and out-of-state travel can be found in the Travel Rate Schedule . Reimbursement for meals will not be permitted when overnight travel is not involved. Official Banquets - When the expenses for an official banquet of a meeting or conference are in excess of the meal allowance, the excess will be allowed provided a receipt or proper explanation of the charge is submitted. Business Meals - Refer to Policy UM1311- Purchase of Meals . Miscellaneous Expenses Personal Expenses - Expenses for entertainment (employee or others), laundry, valet service, tips and gratuities, etc., are personal expenses and will not be reimbursed in excess of the incidental portion of the Meals and Incidentals Rate. Telephone, Internet Access and Fax Expenses - Charges for local and long distance telephone calls, Internet access and/or fax on official business will be allowed. Registration Fees - Registration fees for approved conferences, conventions, seminars, meetings, etc., will be allowed including cost of official banquets and/or luncheons, if authorized in advance by the appropriate approving authority, and receipts are submitted with the travel claim. If an advance registration fee is needed, submit a Check Request Form (formerly Form 10: Special Remittance and Order Form) to the Accounting Office; the related travel authorization must have been approved and be referenced on the form. Purchasing Card may be used for online registration fees. Receipt for registration must be maintained by the department in accordance with Purchasing Card Guidelines . Registration fees must be included as part of the travel authorization amount and included in the prepaid section on the travel claim. Handling Fees - Fees for the handling of equipment or promotional materials will be allowed, subject to the amount on the Travel Rate Schedule . Passports - Reimbursement for cost incurred in obtaining or renewing a passport may be made to an employee who, in the regular course of his/her duties, is required to travel overseas in the furtherance of official University business. Passport expenses are reported on the same claim submitted for the employee's trip. Claims Claim Form - The Claim for Traveling Expenses form will be used for reimbursement of expenses. The form must show movement and detail of expenses on a daily basis. Receipts for appropriate expenses must be submitted with the claim for reimbursement. Expenses for books, supplies, postage, and other items that do not constitute actual traveling expenses should be claimed on a Request for Cash Reimbursement form. This claim should show the total expenses incurred. Claims for reimbursement for travel expenses should be submitted to the Accounting Office no later than thirty (30) days after completion of the travel. Employees with a blanket travel authorization should submit a Claim for Travel Expenses at least once for every thirty (30) day period. The claim for any trip which ends on the last day of the fiscal year must be in the Accounting Office on the third work day of the new fiscal year. Separate claim for each claimant - A separate claim for reimbursement of expenses must be filed by each claimant. The University makes all out of pocket travel expenses on a reimbursement basis. No employee is authorized to have expenses billed to the University. In situations where the traveler has an approved travel PO number, direct billing is available for airline tickets and rental car expenses. The University has arrangements with authorized travel agencies to bill directly to the University. Please refer to the Accounting website. If an employee purchases an airline ticket with his or her personal or corporate credit card, the receipt must be included on the travel claim. A request for reimbursement prior to the completion of the travel will not be granted. Claims for reimbursement (mileage) of multiple local trips -may include an attachment which lists each trip. If the mileage is not listed on the City Distance Chart , the employee must attach an online destination estimate, such as GoogleMaps, MapQuest, etc. or odometer readings. Required signatures - The claim must be signed by the employee, and be approved by the appropriate approving authority prior to reimbursement. Signatures on travel claims must be original or electronic in accordance with TBR policy. Where adequate controls have been implemented to minimize risks associated with travel claim (such as the risk that duplicate claims will be submitted or alterations made to the original claim subsequent to approval by approving authority), travel claims may be submitted for payment electronically via email. The approving authority is usually the department or activity head; all claims must be signed by a higher authority than the claimant. Approving officials are responsible for the reasonableness of the claim. Signatures of the claimant and approving authority must be made by the individuals' actual signatures - no other person may sign a claim for someone else. Travel begins in one fiscal year and ends in another fiscal year - Travel which begins in one fiscal year and ends in another fiscal year will be considered an expense of the year in which the travel ends. A Request for Future Year Travel Authorization form should be submitted with the appropriate fiscal year noted. Eligible and ineligible expenses - You are eligible for reimbursement of travel expenses if your trip was entirely business related. If your trip was primarily for business and, while at your business destination, you extended your stay, made a personal side trip, or had other personal activities, you can obtain reimbursement for only your business related travel expenses. These expenses include the travel costs of getting to and from your business destination but do not include additional transportation, lodging, parking, and per diem for the days not required for the business travel. Additional days are not considered business related unless they are necessary to provide rest or sleep required for you to properly perform your duties. A cost comparison is beneficial in validating eligible business expenses. Travel Advances General - Normally, travel expenses should be paid when incurred by an employee, with reimbursement made to the employee for actual expenses upon proper submission of a claim for travel expenses. Advances to employees for anticipated travel expenses may be made under the circumstances described below. All travel advances must be approved by the President or President's designees. The Accounting Office has been designated by the President to approve travel advances. Airline Tickets - The University has an arrangement with the Authorized Travel Agency to bill airline tickets directly to the University if the employee has an approved travel PO number. Travelers booking their airlines tickets directly cannot receive an advance to pay the cost of the ticket prior to the completion of the travel. Eligibility - Advances will only be approved in the following circumstances: 1. An employee is not eligible for a corporate credit card. An amount equal to 80% of the out-of-pocket estimated expenditures, excluding airfare if the ticket is purchased through the University, any prepaid expenses, i.e. airline, registration, etc., will be allowed as an advance. An advance will not be made for an amount less than $100. 2. Students traveling under individual authorizations or an employee traveling with a student or students who is responsible for disbursing all funds for the trip may be advanced 100% of the amount of the authorization (excluding any prepaid University expense). 3. Substantial expenses will be incurred where the Corporate Credit Card cannot be used. The expenses must exceed the larger of $100 or 20% of the total estimated expenses for the trip. An advance equal to 80% of estimated out-of-pocket expenses, excluding any University prepaid expenses, may be made in such instances. Request for Advance Form - The request for a temporary advance is made with the Request for Travel Advance form. This request should be received by the Accounting Office not less than ten (10) working days prior to departure. The advance check will be prepared by the Accounting Office and must be picked up by the requester before the travel begins. If an advance is needed earlier than three (3) working days before the trip is to begin, include an explanation as to why the advance is needed earlier than three (3) working days. Payroll Deduction Authorization &ndash; When employees request a temporary travel advance, their signature on the Request for Travel Advance form authorizes the University to recover the advance from any salary owed the employee in case of termination of employment or failure to submit a travel claim. Expense Claim - Upon return, the employee should submit a Claim for Traveling Expenses detailing his/her actual expenditures. This claim should show the total expenses incurred. The advanced amount should be subtracted from this total. If the travel advance should exceed actual expenses, the expense claim should be forwarded to the Accounting Office showing that the difference has been repaid. Repayment of all or part of an advance must be made to a cashier at the Bursar's Office and the receipt provided to the Accounting Office. If an advance is received and the travel is canceled, the advance must be returned within one (1) working day. Visitor Travel General - All terms and conditions of University travel regulations apply to official University visitors, except where specified below. Reimbursement rates apply to visitors. Lodging rates will be based on the in-state or out-of-state location where the lodging occurs. Meals will be presumed to be in-state if travel is to Memphis, unless a satisfactory explanation is provided. Travel Authorization - All visitor travel must be authorized in advance with a Travel Purchase Order submitted online by accessing the Banner Finance Self Service module. Visitor travel authorizations should be approved by the appropriate approving authority. If the airline ticket will be billed directly to the University, the department's travel coordinator will order the airline ticket from the University's Authorized Travel Agency and reserve the hotel room. The lodging cost (room and taxes) of the hotel may be billed directly to the University. Meals and other incidentals must be paid directly by the visitor. Notification of Travel Regulations - Authorized visitors should be given a copy of the current University travel regulations prior to the trip. Claims for Traveling Expenses - Claims for reimbursement should be submitted on the Claim for Traveling Expenses form. If a standard form is not used, the claim must be presented in the same detail of day-to-day expenses. A separate claim for expenses must be filed by each claimant and receipts must be attached. The travel claim should include the airline ticket and the lodging as expenses, but the amounts should be deducted from the total expenses if paid directly by the University. Visitors may pay their own airline tickets or lodging expenses and claim reimbursement. No Travel Advances - Travel advances cannot be authorized for visitors. University's Authorized Travel Agency The University has entered into an agreement with a travel agency to provide professional travel services for University reimbursed travel. The services offered by the travel agency are also available for personal travel not funded by the University. An office is located on campus to assist in making travel arrangements. When University-reimbursed air travel by faculty and staff is booked through the authorized travel agency, the fare is directly billed to the University. The traveler must provide the agency with a valid travel purchase order number when booking the ticket. If travel arrangements booked through the authorized travel agency must change after a trip has started, it is recommended that the agency be called, even from an airport. Travel changes made directly with airlines after a trip has started will be reimbursed. The authorized travel agency guarantees the University the lowest available fare at the time airline tickets are booked. Usually the earlier travel is booked, the more likely lower fares will be available. When travel plans permit, advise the agency service representative that you might be able to alter your schedule if a better fare is available. The University will reimburse only the lowest fare available that results in a travel time schedule reasonable to the circumstances. Hotels, car rentals, and other travel services may be arranged through the authorized travel agency. Travelers are encouraged to contact the agency to determine if a lower rate is available; if not, the traveler may use the arrangements otherwise available. In some cases the authorized travel agency can secure services when they are &quot;sold out&quot; to the general public. Websites Internet travel sites such as Expedia, Travelocity or Kayak can be utilized to purchase single travel services such as an airline ticket. Internet travel sites cannot be used to purchase a package of more than one travel service. Purchases of travel packages that combine services such as lodging, airline, or vehicle rentals are not allowed. These package deals do not usually provide sufficient itemized pricing for each service purchased and therefore do not allow for proper comparison to CONUS or conference rates as required by policy. Exceptions Unless specifically authorized in this procedure or in the Tennessee Board of Regents travel policy, exceptions will not be approved. Requests for exceptions or interpretations must be made in writing and forwarded to the Controller or designee, who will secure approval/disapproval. Related Forms Request for Travel Purchase Order Travel Purchase Orders should be submitted on-line by accessing the Banner Finance Self Service module at Request for Future Year Travel Authorization Claim for Traveling Expenses Request for Travel Advance Check Request Form (formerly, Form 10: Special Remittance and Order Form) Request for Cash Reimbursement Request for Meals Reimbursement FAQs Whom do I contact with further questions? Travel Policy - Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs): A list of General Accounting employees and phone number is available at: Questions can also be emailed to accounting@memphis.edu Contact information on the University's travel agency is available at: Links University Travel Resources TBR General Travel Policy International Travel Policy for Student Groups/Classes University's Travel Agent Reimbursement Rates CONUS Rates Banner Finance Self Service Accounting Website with link to General Accounting Contact List Revision Dates &nbsp UM1309 - Revised: September 9, 2014 UM1309 - Revised: June 19, 2014 UM1309 - Revised: March 27, 2014 UM1309 - Issued: May 17, 2011 Subject Areas: Academic Finance General Human Resources Information Technology Research Student Affairs &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp