#http://www.memphis.edu/economics/programs/phd_economics.php
PhD in Economics - ECON - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Economics Welcome Programs Faculty Research News FCBE About Programs Faculty Research News Home ECON Programs PhD in Economics PhD Economics Admission | PhD Handbook | Course Requirements The Economics concentration in the PhD program provides students with both the theoretical background and strong empirical skills necessary to be a professional economist. The strong analytical skills and extensive training in empirical methods using the latest econometric software make our graduates highly sought after. Recent graduates have found employment opportunities at Fortune 500 firms, government agencies and major Universities. The Economics Department has a very productive faculty conducting research in many areas, including health economics, social capital, international economics, macroeconomic theory and industrial organization. Faculty and graduate students have access to excellent computing facilities and data sources for research. Graduate Assistantships provide an opportunity for students to interact with faculty and often lead to joint research projects and publications in scholarly journals. Publications have appeared in leading economics journals including the American Economic Review, Review of Economics and Statistics, Econometrica, the Economic Journal, Review of Financial Studies, International Journal of Industrial Organization, Journal of Economic Behavior, Health Economics, Gerontology, Journal of Comparative Economics, Journal of Economic Issues and the Southern Economics Journal . In addition, faculty and graduate assistants are active in sponsored research projects that lead to reports for government organizations like the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis and the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress and studies for private corporations like Federal Express. The Bureau of Business and Economic Research also provides professional opportunities for students and faculty alike. Further, the department hosts a research seminar allowing visiting scholars to present the latest research on topics of interest to faculty and students. The basic curriculum includes macroeconomic theory, microeconomic theory and a research core including statistics and econometrics. Students then focus on a field of interest such as health economics or international economics, among others. All students in the PhD program then add a minor field, which may be outside of economics. Recent students have selected minors ranging from finance, to statistics, to sociology, depending on their professional interests and specific career plans. More detailed information about the all aspects of the program is provided in the Students Guide to the PhD in Business Administration with a Concentration in Economics produced by the Economics Department. With a strong curriculum and supportive faculty, students receive the highest quality education in contemporary economics. Graduate research and teaching assistantships provide hands on experience and financial support as well. The end result is a graduate with excellent analytical skills and strong training in empirical methods that give our graduates a competitive edge in today's global labor market. Dr. Albert Okunade Ph.D. Program Coordinator, Economics Email: aokunade@memphis.edu Phone: 901.6782672 Course Requirements A. Total Credit Hours A total of at least 72 credit hours of classes, beyond an earned Baccalaureate degree, allocated between three types of classes, must be completed. Each group of classes is described below. A student entering the Ph.D. program with the Baccalaureate degree can, upon successful completion of MA work, apply for graduation to receive the MA Economics degree. (All of the MA courses, passed with a B- or better grade, are automatically credited towards the Ph.D. degree.) The Graduate School requires a Ph.D. student opting to receive the MA degree along the way to simultaneously file for ‘continuance’ in the Ph.D. degree program. Theory and History of Thought 18 hours Research Core 12 hours Field and Directed 24 hours Electives Dissertation 18 hours Total 72 hours B. The Research Core (12 Hours) Ph.D. students are required to take a set of classes designed to provide basic research skills. For Ph.D. students in the concentrations of Accounting, Economics, and Finance, the research core consists of the following sequence of classes: ECON 8120: Advanced Quantitative Economic Analysis ECON 7125/8125: Applied Statistical Methods for Business &amp; Economics ECON 8810: Econometrics I ECON 8811: Econometrics II or ECON 8812: Econometrics III C. The Concentration (42 Hours) Concentration courses are economics courses in theory, a field of specialization and directed electives. 1. Theory (15 Hours) These courses provide the advanced theory that will be utilized in the field courses: a. ECON 7300: Economic Theory b. ECON 8310: Advanced Microeconomics I c. ECON 8320: Advanced Macroeconomics I d. ECON 8311: Advanced Microeconomics II e. ECON 8321: Advanced Macroeconomics II 2. Field of Specialization (6 Hours) We offer three main fields of specialization: Health Economics, International Economics, and Applied Microeconomics. Each requires two classes. Students are required to have one field of concentration, but they may bundle their elective hours to form a second field of interest. The fields we currently offer are: a. Health Economics (1) ECON 8711 Applied Health Care Economics (2) ECON 8910 Problems in Economics – Advanced Readings in Health Economics 2 b. International Economics (1) ECON 8175: International Trade Theory and Policy (2) ECON 8176: International Monetary Theory and Policy c. Applied Microeconomics Two of the following four courses: (1) ECON 8130: Industrial Organization (2) ECON 8210: Labor Economics (3) ECON 8312: Economic Behavior and Organizations (4) ECON 8313: Economics of Risk and Uncertainty 3. Directed Electives in Economics (18 hours) Students must take eighteen hours of electives in addition to the economics field. The courses should complement the student’s choice of field and may include independent studies courses and courses from other departments in a plan of study approved by the Ph.D. coordinator or advisor. D. Dissertation Hours (18 hours) After completing all course work and passing the comprehensive exam students must complete a dissertation. Students must be continuously enrolled until the time of graduation for at least 18 credit hours. E. A Schedule of Classes by Semester and a Program of Study To facilitate planning, Table 1 summarizes when classes will be provided each year. This is tentative, and the department cannot guarantee that all classes will be offered as scheduled. Table 1 The Cycle of Classes Fall of the First Year ECON 7300: Economic Theory and Decisions ECON 8120: Advanced Quantitative Economic Analysis ECON 7125/8125: Applied Business and Economics Statistics, or equivalent Spring of the First Year ECON 8310: Advanced Microeconomics I ECON 8320: Advanced Macroeconomics I ECON 8810: Econometrics I Field or elective course Fall of the Second Year ECON 8311: Advanced Microeconomics II ECON 8321: Advanced Macroeconomics II ECON 8811: Econometrics II and/or Econometrics III Spring of the Second Year Field or elective courses ECON 8901 Teaching Practicum or ECON 8900 Research Practicum Fall and Spring of the Third Year and Fourth Year Field or elective course ECON 8900 Research Practicum BA 9000 Dissertation hours Note that students may also enroll in BA 8800: Reading for Comprehensives as necessary. About Programs Faculty Research News Undergraduate Programs Learn about our undergraduate offerings! Seminars Keep up with the latest Economic academic research in our upcoming seminars. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .