#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT4810001.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus FCBE MGMT 4810 International Management Fall Semester, 2015 3.0 Credit Hours (Last updated: 06/08/2015 Instructor: Annette S. McDevitt, PhD Phone1: 901.233.4374 E - mail: amcdevitt@att.net Office Hours: By appointment only (call 901.233.4374) Course Overview : In this course, we focus on the significance of international management in the effective execution of one to examine the relevance of international m anagement issues as they affect the operation of multinational enterprises. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: There are no course pre - requisites to enrolling in this course. However, the student should have a good grasp of basic mathematics and applied writ ing skills. In general, it is assumed that all students who are registering for Fogelman College classes have successfully completed any pre - requisites or are enrolled currently in any co - requisites associated with this course. Required Texts (and Relat ed M aterials) : Phatak, A.V., Bhagat, R.S., & Kashlak, R.J. (2009). International management: Managing in a diverse and dynamic and global environment . New York: McGraw - Hill Irwin p. 2 Recommended Texts (and Related Materials) : It is recommended (but not required) that students have a ccess to at least one periodical that includes business news ( Commercial Appeal, Wall Street Journal, Bloomberg , etc. ) . Course Objectives : By successfully completing this course, students will be able to : 1. Operational issues in managing a multinational company in the global context, 2. Cross - cultural issues in management and organizations, and 3. Corporate social responsibility in an inter - connective world Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with th e overall learning objectives as a student in the BBA program : rningOutcomes.pdf Course Methodology The course material will be delivered via lecture and classroom discussions. of Students : In general, you should assist the instructor in creating a positive, supportive environment for learning by staying engaged in the course and actively participating in all classroom discussions. Student's Expectations of the Professor : In my role as your instructor, there are certain things you can expect from me including: well - orga nized and engaging learning experience, r esponse to emails within two (2) business days, and feedba ck on all work submitted within 7 - 10 calendar days. Grading and Evaluation Criteria Over the semester, you will have a variety of opportunities to earn points towards your final (overall) letter grade in this course. This section of the syllabus describes the assessed work you will be doing and how overall (final) letter grades will be computed. Final Course Grades Final course grades are earned accordi ng to the following table : p. 3 Point Range Assigned Grad e 92 - 100 Points A 8 4 - 91 Points B 75 - 8 3 Points C 65 - 74 Points D Under 65 Points F Your overall grade for the semester is based on how well you perform on a mixture of formal activities including examinations, presentation, research paper, and participation in classroom discussions . A det ailed description of each of the assessed activities can be found after the scoring summary table below. Summary of Graded Activities Points earned on the assesse d activities will be distributed as follows: Deliverable Total Percent 4 exams (10% percent each) 40 Presentation 1 5 Research Paper 35 Participation/attendance 10 Total 1 00 % p. 4 Final Exam Schedule The final exam for this class will be scheduled according to the academic calendar website . Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all o fficial course correspondence at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not regularly respo nsibility. Attendance: Attendance will be taken during each class period. Y ou are expected to stay active and engaged throughout the academic term and keep up wi th the schedule of activities. Your full engagement in the class begins on the first day of the semester and should be maintained until the last assignment is submitted. For students receiving federal student loans, any lack of engagement in the course may be treated as non - attend ance and potentially impact access to student loans in the future. Assignments: MGMT 4810 Fall 2015 August 24 (Mon.) Introduction/Course overview August 26 (Wed.) Chapter 1 August 31 (Mon.) Chapter 1 Sept. 2 (Wed.) Chapter 3 Sept. 7 (Mon.) Labor Day (Holiday) Sept. 9 (Wed) Chapter 3 Review for Exam 1 (Chapters 1 - 3) Sept. 14 (Mon.) Exam 1 Sept. 16 (Wed.) Chapter 4 Sept. 21 (Mon.) Chapter 5 Sept. 23 (Wed.) Chapter 6 Review for Exam 2 p. 5 Sept. 28 (Mon.) Exam 2 Sept. 30 (Wed.) Chapter 7 Oct. 5 (Mon.) Chapter 8 Oct. 7 (Wed.) Chapter 9 Revi ew for Exam 3 Oct. 12 (Mon.) Fall break Oct. 14 (Wed.) Exam 3 Oct. 19 (Mon.) Chapter 10, 11 Oct. 21 (Wed.) Chapter 12 Oct. 26 (Mon.) Chapter 13 & 14 Review for Exam 4 Oct. 28 (Wed.) Exam 4 Nov. 2 (Mon.) Presentations Nov. 4 (Wed.) Pre sentations Nov. 9 (Mon.) Presentations Nov. 11 (Wed.) Presentations Nov. 16 (Mon. ) Presentations Nov. 18 (Wed.) Presentations Nov. 23 (Mon.) Presentations Nov. 25 (Wed.) Assigned to library Nov. 30 (Mon.) Presentations Dec. 2 (Wed.) Last Day of Class Final paper due p. 6 Adding / Dropping : I f you have questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to th is page on the . Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. Note that using a Solutions Manual is considered c heating. Should your professor have evidence that using a Solutions Manual has occurred, he/she may take steps Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Participation: To be successful in this course as a student, you must stay active and involved throughout the entire semester. Students are expected to participate in all interactive aspects of the co urse. You should also communicate with the instructor as the need arises and as part of your overall learning experience, check into the course frequently for announcements (us ually on the course home page). Classroom or Online Behavior: All participants in the course should be considerate of their classmates and instructor treat them (as well as their opinions) with respect. The class will operate under the assumption that any and all feedback offered is positive in nature and that the intentions of the person(s) providing feedback are strictly honorable. Ins ensitivity in this area will not be tolerated. A ssignments and projects may be submitted anytime up to and includi ng the date due. / forma lly assessed work . If your work is not submitted on time, the instructor reserves the option to deduct up to 20% of the grade value for tardiness depending upon the circumstances and appropriate communication between the student and the instructor. Extra C redit: There is no extra credit offered in this course. Reporting Illness or Absence: Due dates and deadlines have been established for each graded assignment. In this course, deadlines are taken very seriously. Please do not wait until the last day to submit assignments or to take quizzes and exams. I responsibility to contact the instructor prior to the deadline to discuss the matter. A deadline extension will be considered only if all of the following c onditions are met: (1) Extreme emergency and (2) Instructor contacted prior to the due date . Inclement Weather: p. 7 In the event that inclement weather requires the cancellation of classes at T he University of Memphis, local radio and television media will be immedi ately notified. Additionally, T he University of Memphis has established an I nclement Weather Hotline at 678 - 0888 as well as TigerText , an emergency alert text messaging service to students, faculty and staff. This optional service is used in the event of an on - campus emergency, an unscheduled university closing, or a delay or cancellation of classes due to, for instance, inclement weather . Click Here for information on TigerText. Syllabus Changes: The instructor reserves the right to make changes as necessary to this syllabus. If changes are necessitated during the term of the course, the instructor will immediately notify students of such changes both by individual email communication and posting both notification and nature of change(s) on the course bulletin board. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance