#http://www.memphis.edu/gsa/about/rights_and_responsibilities.php
Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities - GSA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Student Association About Members Committees Calendar Contact Us Graduate School About Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities Graduate Student Association Constitution Home GSA About Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities PREAMBLE Graduate students play an integral part in the ability of the university campus to provide the breadth and quality of educational experiences expected of a Carnegie RU/HA (Research University with Higher Levels of Research Activity) institution. Graduate student supplement and complement the teaching and research activities of the faculty, and in doing so allow the faculty to engage more students in individualized instructional opportunities. They also provide the institution with an ability to more rapidly adjust the educational opportunities to meet student needs and preferences that can be accommodated for by the faculty alone. It is important that the campus community recognize and support the important role played by graduate students in enabling the campus to address its research, teaching, and outreach mission. A major purpose of graduate education at The University of Memphis is to instill in each student an understanding of and capacity for scholarship, independent judgment, academic rigor, and intellectual honesty. Graduate education is an opportunity for the student to develop into a professional. Graduate research and teaching assistantships offer an "apprenticeship" experience in the academic profession as well as financial support. It is the joint responsibility of faculty and graduate students to work together to foster these ends through relationships that encourage freedom of inquiry, mentoring, demonstrate personal and professional integrity, and foster mutual respect. This shared responsibility with faculty extends to all of the endeavors of graduate students, as students and as members of the larger academic community. Each right of an individual places a reciprocal duty upon others, the duty to permit the individual to exercise the right. The graduate student, as a member of the academic community, has both rights and duties. Within that community, the graduate student's most essential right is the right to learn. The University of Memphis has a duty to provide for the graduate student those privileges, opportunities, and protections which best promote the learning process in all its aspects. The graduate student also has duties to other members of the academic community, the most important of which is to refrain from interference with those rights of others which are equally essential to the purposes and processes of the University. While this document is not legally binding, violations of the standards contained within may serve as grounds for filing grievances through the existing University procedures. It is also acknowledged that situations may arise which this document is not able to foresee or prevent, and in such cases this document should be viewed as a guideline and as a set of minimum standards. Some of the standards contained within are already specified as rights or responsibilities of students in existing official university literature and are restated here to ensure that graduate students are aware of such standards. The following principles illustrate what graduate students should expect from their programs and what programs should expect from their graduate students to help achieve this excellence: I. Graduate Students Have The Right: To be respected as individuals and as developing professionals. To matriculate through the degree programs in a timely fashion. To an advisor. To be provided with clear degree requirements. To have progress towards their degree objectively evaluated by the appropriate faculty members. To reasonable confidentiality in communications with professors, defined as: When the graduate student had an expectation of confidentiality AND When a reasonable person in the same situation would have an expectation of confidentiality. To only perform tasks that are related to their professional/academic development or within the confines of a contractual obligation or relevant assistantship duties. Not be discriminated against on the basis of race, gender, disability, religion, socioeconomic status, age, ethnicity, or sexual orientation. To due process regarding grade appeals, grievances, or issues before Judicial Affairs. To student representation in decisions regarding curriculum and program development. To be appropriately recognized for significant contributions to the research process and publications. To sufficient supervision when appointed as a Graduate Teaching Assistant or Graduate Research Assistant. To petition for a change in advisor/major professor or thesis/doctoral committee membership at any point in their academic career without incurring any undue future negative academic/social consequences as a result of this change, with the exception of academic scheduling. To be informed in a timely fashion about a change in their advisor or committee members' status as it relates to their thesis/dissertation completion or research agenda. To expect professional interaction from faculty, staff, and peers. II. Graduate Students Have The Responsibility: To read pertinent catalog/website information and college/departmental handbooks regarding successful completion of courses, forms (e.g., intent to graduate and candidacy), composition of masters and doctoral committees, comprehensive and qualifying examinations, and theses/dissertation defenses. To acknowledge the contributions of faculty members in their scholarly presentations and publications. To conduct themselves in a manner befitting their professional area of study To matriculate with integrity through the degree in a timely fashion. To take the initiative to ask questions and access information about degree requirements, program completion, and financial arrangements. To inform appropriate faculty members in a timely fashion about any changes in program status, advisor, or committee membership. To familiarize themselves with the university and college level student codes of conduct. To follow all University policies and procedures when conducting research, including those specified by the Institutional Review Board and the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. To interact with faculty in a professional and civil manner. To behave in a professional and appropriate manner in class. Approved 03/04/05 About Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities Graduate Student Association Constitution Travel Funding Request funds for travel with the Travel Fund application. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .