#http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/forms/faculty.php
Forms: Faculty - Registrar - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty &amp; Staff Forms Forms Forms Student Veterans Faculty/Staff Parents Former Lambuth University Students Home Registrar Forms Forms: Faculty Forms: Faculty and Staff Access &amp; Authorized Signatures Access to Banner Student System Use this form to request access to the Banner Student System. Instructions accompany the form. Authorized Signatures: Dean's Signature Used by the Provost's Office to name a Dean and submit the Dean's handwritten signature to the Registrar's Office. The Dean's signature authority is detailed on the form. Authorized Signatures: Dean's Designee's Signature Used by the Dean to identify his or her official Designee and to submit the Designee's handwritten signature to the Registrar's Office. The Designee's signature authority is detailed on the form. Authorized Signatures: Department Chair/Head's Signature Used by the Dean or Dean's Designee to identify a department's Chair or Head and to submit that individual's handwritten signature to the Registrar's Office. The Chair/Head's signature authority is detailed on the form. Authorized Signatures: Add Authorized Signature Used by the Dean or Dean's Designee to (1) assign signature authority for enrollment exceptions to specific individuals within the College or School, and (2) submit the individuals' handwritten signatures to the Registrar's Office. Available enrollment exceptions are listed on the form. See Authorized Signatures for links to lists of current officials and their authority. Authorized Signatures: Delete Authorized Signature Used by the Dean or Dean's Designee to remove officials who no longer have signature authority for the College or School. Processing instructions are on the form. See Authorized Signatures for links to lists of current officials and their authority. Curriculum &amp; Scheduling Curriculum Planning Forms Use the forms to request course revisions, new courses, or special topics courses. These forms were created by, and are maintained by Curriculum Planning . FedEx Institute of Technology Room Request *FOR USE BY THE FedEx INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY ONLY.* Use this form to reserve rooms for an upcoming term. Instructor Assignment Correction Log Use this form to revise the instructor of record for a course/section. Non-Standard Course Offering Use this form to schedule courses taught at non-standard times, contract courses (University funds &lt;50%), or sponsored courses. Section Maintenance Use this form to cancel, add, modify, or reactivate course sections. Refer to the instructions on the form. Section Maintenance (Word) Use this MS-Word version of the form only if you want to e-mail Section Maintenance requests: Complete the form by highlighting each appropriate blank field and replacing it with data. Save the completed form to your system with a unique name. Login to your official UofM e-mail account : your request must come from this account. E-mail the file (saved request) as an attachment to: reg_regsched@memphis.edu Student Records Academic Program Maintenance Use this form for ALL academic program changes, including college, degree, major(s), minor(s), concentration(s), expected graduation term, catalog term, or student level (attribute). Instructions are available with the form. (Request Access to Student's) Academic Record/Confidential File Use this form to request access to student data for legitimate business purposes. Instructions are available with the form. See Faculty and Staff Access to Student Records for instructions and related information. Change in Reported Never-Attended or Stopped-Attending Date Use this form to change one of these attendance dates for a student if the online grading period has ended. If the grading period is still open, change the date online instead. Refer to the instructions on the form. Course Overload Approval Use this form to approve either undergraduate or graduate course loads. Instructions are available with the form. Degree Certification Correction Use this form to correct information pertaining to a previously awarded degree. Refer to the instructions on the form. Degree Certification Exception *USED PRIMARILY BY GRADUATION ANALYSTS.* Use this form to request an exception to degree certification. Refer to the instructions on the form. Grade Change Use this form to change a student's grade after the online grading period has ended. If the grading period is still open, change the grade online instead. Pay particular attention to the instructions in the "Signature Stamps Not Allowed" section. Grade Statement Use this form to assign a grade to a student who attended your class but whose name did not appear on your class list by the grading period. Refer to the instructions on the form. Incomplete Grade Extension Use this form to extend an "I" grade for a student. Refer to the instructions on the form. Instructor Sign Off for Late Registrations/Late Adds Use this form to approve late registrations or late adds after the official College Approval End Date has passed. If the student is requesting a Late Registration, he or she must submit an approved Request to Register After Late Registration form to the Registrar as well. Letter of Recommendation If a student requests a letter of recommendation, have him or her complete this form. Because some part of a student's education record is likely to be involved, a letter of recommendation for a student can have FERPA implications. Be sure to read Letters of Recommendation . Request for Approval to Register After Late Registration Use this form to approve a student's request to register for classes after the last day of Late Registration has passed. Schedule Adjustment *FOR ADVISOR USE ONLY.* Use this form to initiate all schedule adjustments--adds, drops, and withdrawals. Instructions are available with the form. Forms Forms Student Veterans Faculty/Staff Parents Former Lambuth University Students Calendars Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams. Notice! Check for alerts and reminders. Contact Us Have questions? Need assistance or information? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .