#http://www.memphis.edu/meeman/geography/
UofM - Meeman - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Edward J. Meeman Biological Field Station Geography Research Education Databases Mission Statement Geography Information Geography Physical Setting Physiography West TN Rivers Home Meeman Geography Geography Climate The yearly average temperature is 16º C. July is the warmest month averaging 26.6º C, and January is the coldest month averaging 4º C. Average yearly precipitation is 132 cm with a majority of precipitation occurring during the winter and spring months. Average growing season is 230 days. Physical Setting Western Tennessee is part of the Mississippi Embayment, an extension of unconsolidated coastal plain materials. The surface geology can be sectioned from east to west as Quaternary loess on the bluffs and riparian areas, Tertiary unconsolidated sand, silt, clay and gravel, and Cretaceous unconsolidated sand, silt, clay and gravel (to the far east). Vegetation Community Types, Physiognomic classification Nearly all of the upland natural vegetation in western Tennessee is part of the Lowland or Submontane Cold-Deciduous Forest (sensu the National Vegetation Classification System, Weakley et al. 1988). Lowlands include Temporarily Flooded, Seasonally Flooded, Semipermanently Flooded, and Saturated Cold-Deciduous Forest. There are also plantings of Pinus taeda and Pinus echinata, and various crops such as cotton and soybeans. In addition, there occur several fallow fields dominated by herbaceous flora, made up of various perennial forbs and grasses. Finally, several exotic species, mainly Pueraria montana and Microstegium vimineum, are increasing their extent. Historical vegetation Delcourt et al. (1993) describe the vegetation and anthropogenic cultures of the southeastern United States. During the full glaciation, ca. 18,000 years before present (BP), Picea and Abies species dominated the Mississippi alluvial valley, while the adjacent uplands were dominated by a mixed forest reminiscent of the contemporary northern forests. The Hysithermal (ca. 3,500 – 8,000 years BP) during the Holocene was a warm, dry period, rendering open park-like upland oak forests and restricting the mesophytic flora to riparian zones. Early explorers described large, widely spaced trees with an abundance of cane (Arundinaria gigantea) in the understory in the loess hills. Remnants of the once vast ?canebrakes? still exist in small patches. A variety of oak forests and woodlands dominated the interior uplands. Riparian zones were dominated by swamp forest (Taxidium distichum and Nyssa aquatica) and bottomland hardwoods. The onset of European settlement led to the demise of many forests for agriculture and various products such as railroad ties. In addition, the use of fire practiced by Native Americans was suppressed leading to the closing in of forest canopies. Lowland or submontane cold-deciduous forest Braun (1950) classified western Tennessee uplands (the Tennessee Plateau) as Western Mesophytic, a cross between the Mesophytic vegetation to the east and the drier oak forests to the west. Küchler classified the uplands as oak-hickory. The dominance of oak, especially, is common on the uplands, with Quercus alba being the most common and ubiquitous (Bryant et al. 1993). Many of these upland forests are currently succeeding due to two phemomena: 1) forest canopies have closed since European settlement and this has led to a regeneration of only shade-tolerant species, e.g., Acer saccharum and Fagus grandifolia, and 2) forests recovering from disturbance in the late 1800s are losing species of the black oak group as they reach their maximum age. The Loess Bluffs are particularly interesting because of the variety of flora with a mix of northern species such as Tilia americana and Magnolia spp. The loess hills and adjacent lowlands have been suggested as an importnat migratory route and refugia during Pleistocene glaciation (Delcourt and Delcourt 1975). Flooded cold-deciduous forest The lowlands and area adjacent to the Mississippi River is part of the Southern Floodplain Forest (Küchler 1964). These forests include bottomland hardwood forests and deepwater alluvial swamps that are part of the riparian zone rivers and streams (Sharitz &amp; Mitsch 1993). The bottomland forests of the eastern United States, generally restricted to the Coastal Plain province, are both economically and ecologically important. The bottomland hardwood forests consist primarily of flood plains adjacent to rivers and streams, but also include poorly drained areas. There are a large number of species found in this system. The major site types are the first bottoms, which are periodically flooded, and the second bottoms, which no longer flood periodically. Within the bottoms, due to the past meandering of the main channel and its tributaries, occur secondary site types due to micro and meso-topography: ridges, flats, sloughs, and swamps. A typical profile of a southeastern bottomland ecosystem shows the importance of microtopographic variation, resulting in dramatic changes in vegetation with sub-meter changes in elevation. The importance of the topography is directly related to the mean depth of the water table, and thus the growing conditions for various tree species (Robertson et al. 1978). The wetlands have long acted like a buffer, mitigating the effects of upland activities (e.g., fire and cutting) on adjacent river and stream systems by catching nutrients and eroding sediments (Sharitz and Mitsch 1993). However, many of these forests have been converted to farmland. Geography Information Geography Physical Setting Physiography West TN Rivers Directions to Meeman Google maps and location information Department of Biological Sciences Edward J. Meeman Biological Field Station is a facility of the Department of Biological Sciences Contact Us Director and facility care taker contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .