#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/pdfs/edd-leadership-program-information.pdf
LEADERSHIP AND POLICY STUDIES DOCTORAL DEGREE INFORMATION Leadership Concentration DEPARTMENT OF LEADERSHIP UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS COLLEGE OF EDUCATION, HEALTH AND HUMAN SCIENCES MEMPHIS, TN 38152 - 6172 PHONE: (901) 678 - 2369 FAX: (901) 678 - 0505 VISIT OUR WEB SITE: A Tennessee Board of Regents Institution An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action University Revised 8 /28 /14 ; maintained by Dr. Larry McNeal 2 Administrators, Educational Researchers, and Policy Analysts Introduction T he Memphis Executive Educational Leadership Collaborative Program (ME X ELC ) evolved out of the recognition that schools are open social systems requiring the interaction of various groups at different levels. Two of the critical groups are leaders at the central administrative level and the school level. The efficiency and effec tiveness of leadership in central administration and its connection with leadership at the local school level is vital to the success of individual schools. This program is designed to address a noticeable void in the current reform movement. It specifi cally addresses processes and procedures that school leaders can use to make and sustain a leadership connection in a positive manner. Participants will develop skills in aligning activities at the central office level with assessed needs at the local lev el. This allows for central office administrators to provide support services to local schools that will not only enhance the academic achievement and academic progress in individual schools but also on a district - wide level. Classes for the doctoral coh ort are offered in Memphis and Jackson campuses. Employment Opportunities It offers opportunities for advanced professional specialization and includes a dissertation. Program objectives are: (1) a strong knowledge base in policy formulation and interpretation, and (2) the development of skills and dispositions for leadership positions in organizations with educational emphases. Students achieving this degree could be employed by school districts as administrators, educational researchers, and policy analysts. They could also serve in an educational responsibility in a military, medical, business, governmental, or non - profit organizational setting. They would qualify for employment by institutions of higher education in administrative positions and for broad public service areas. Program Requirements The program requires 54 hours beyond the degree. The following courses are required for the concentration (33 hours): LEAD 8001 Leadership in Organizations LEAD 8002 American Society and Educational Practice LEAD 8003 Policy Oriented Research LDPS 8121 Personnel Administration LDPS 8132 School Finance 3 LDPS 8181 Policy Implementation in Educational Admin. EDPR 8541 Statistical Methods Applied to Educational Research I EDPR 8542 Statistical Methods Applied to Educational Research II LEAD 9000 Dissertation - 9 hours Other recommended courses are: LDPS 8111 Educational Administration Performance LEAD 8140 Planning of Educational Change LDPS 8180 Politics & Power of Educational Leadership LDPS 8305 Issues in Educational Policies LDPS 8320 Urban Education: Historical & Contemporary Perspectives LDPS 8330 Race, Ethnicity and Gender in American Education LEAD 8500 Adult Learning and Leadership LDPS 8350 Policy and Practices of Conte mporary American Education A maximum of twelve (12) hours of transfer credit/credits earned as non - degree can be counted toward the degree. The Department of Leadership as the Source for This Degree Professors in the Policy Studies concentration are qualified to teach courses leading to the degree because of their experience in varying types of educational settings, including public schools, business, government, and the military, wherein they have been involved in establishing, interpreting, and applying policy. Students completing this degree will have developed skills effecting leadership, change, and policy formation; will have had opportunities to analyze data and its relationship to organizational effectiveness; and will have achieved a vision of effectiveness that is shared by experts. They will have had experience in evaluating policies and assessing their effect. F aculty Engagement in the Degree Program Faculty members supervise the degree program of each student, provide leadership and monitoring, guide a research project produced by the student, and conduct comprehensive examinations. They are actively engaged in formative and summative evaluation procedures to guarantee the integrity and currency. Degree Recipients T he research of individuals receiving a degree in this con centration can be found on the u niversity website. D r. Sharon Griffith, Director of Shelby County I - Zone Schools 4 Dr. Angel Brown, Principal, Kate Bond Elementary, Shelby County Schools Admission Procedures To be admitted to post - degree candidacy, each student must meet all Graduate School requirements and then complete a candidacy file in the Department of Leadership. All requirements for admission or readmission to the university must be completed before registration is authorized. Applications will be reviewed on November 1 and April 1 of each year. Req uirements of the Graduate School 1. An application to the Graduate School can be obtained at the following web site: . When filling it out, indicate that the major is Leadership and Policy Studies and that the concentration is Policy Studies. Complete the application and submit it. A fee will be charged at the end of the application process. 2. An official report of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) score. [Verbal & Quantitative Scores] For questions regarding GRE testing or other information regarding the Graduate School, call Graduate School Admissions at 901 - 678 - 2911. The Testing Center number at the university is 901 - 678 - 2428. 3. Official transcripts of all prior undergraduate and graduate courses. After the application has been received by the Graduate School, the application fee has been paid, the transcript (s) has (have) been received, and the GRE scores have been received, a Departmental Recommendation Form will be sent to the Department of Leadership. Department of Leadership Requirements The following are the requirements of the Department of Leadership: 1. Documents* a. Resume b. Three professional letters of recommendation on letterhead c. A portfolio (see attached sheet) should be submitted as soon as possible, but must be received no later than two weeks prior to application deadline (contact the department for deadline dates). The portfolio MUST contain the following documentation: 5 (1) Letter of application to the department (2) Statement of goals (3) Current resume (4) Official transcript(s) (5) Philosophy of education statemen t 2. A writing assignment to be completed on a computer one hour prior to an interview. The topic will be based on a current educational issue. 3. An interview with faculty members *Please submit documents to the Department of Leadership before the written exercise and the interview. For the delivery of portfolio materials, office hours are: M - F 8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Please contact: Ms. Cathy Wilhelm Department of Leadership Ball Hall, Room 123 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 3570 (901) 678 - 2369, (901) 678 - 0505 (FAX) cwilhelm@memphis.edu For additional information contact: Dr. Reginald Leon Green, Professor and Program Coordinator 901 678 - 3445, 901 678 - 0505 (FAX) Rlgreen1@memphis.edu After the materials have been received, the writing assignment has been competed, and the interview has been conducted, a decision about the application will be made, based on a holistic profile that includes, but is not limited to, information contained in the completed application packet described above and obtained during the personal interview. A letter will be sent from the department notifying the student of its action, and an advisor will be named where applicable. It may precede the official letter of admission sent to the applicant from the Graduate School. Linkage to the Graduate School Web Page For detailed information about this doctoral program, click on - programs.htm , then click on Graduate Handbook 6 Doctoral D egree Programs and on COE Graduate Office Forms (the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences requires some forms that are not required by the Graduate School). 7 Program of Studies Department of Leadership Ed.D. Degree in Leadership and Policy Studies Signature Concentration in Policy Studies University ID Course No. Course Title Sem/Year Scheduled Credit Hrs. Grade Required LEAD 8001 Educational Leadership in Organizations 3 Required LEAD 8002 American Society and Educational Policies 3 Required Statistical Methods Applied 3 EDPR 8541 to Education I EDPR 8542 Statistical Methods Applied to Education II 3 Required LEAD 8003 Policy - Oriented Research 3 Required LDPS 8305 Issues in Educational Policy 3 Required LDPS 8310 Philosophical Analysis and Educational Policy 3 Required LDPS 8350 Policy and Practices of Contemporary American Education 3 Required LEAD 9000 Dissertation 9 Electives (21 hours) ( 1) LDPS 8111 Educational Administration Performance 3 3 (2) LEAD 8140 Planning of Educational Change 3 (3) LDPS 8180 Politics & Power of Educational Leadership 3 (4) LDPS 8305 Issues i n Educational Policies 3 (5) LDPS 8320 Urban Education: Historical & Contemporary Perspectives 3 (6) LDPS 8330 Race, Ethnicity and Gender in American Education 3 (7) LEAD 8500 Adult Learning and Leadership 3 TOTAL 54 Advisor's Signature Date Department Chair's Signature Date 8 How to Design the Portfolio A portfolio is a subjective compilation of materials displaying a talents, proficiencies, and demonstrating knowledge and skills. What is included in a portfolio depends upon the person answering the question, What am I trying to tell the reader about Before beginning the portfolio, begin planning by thinking about the purpose and the audience. For the purposes of this portfolio, the applicant should attempt to demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and experiences that the applicant has had that are preparing the applicant to prepare for the role in administration - a leader in the 21st century. Reflecting on the purpose and audience can assist in determining the best way to develop the portfolio. Claims about your experiences, knowledge, and skills will be most convincing to the evaluators when they are supported by documentation from a variety of sources. Much of the material and data that can be used are regularly gathered, which makes constructing this section of the application less daunting than it might at first seem. Useful evidence can take many forms, and needs to be carefully selected and presented. The portfolio should be well organized, easy to read and understand, and look professional. It is important to spend some time deciding how to organize and present the data the applicant has gathered. The applicant might as herself/himself, I selected, organized, and presented the data in a way that brings the most compelling evidence into focus for the evaluator? Does each piece of evidence serve a purpose, supporting a claim made about teaching, service or administrative experiences I want to demonstrate? Does the portfolio give the evaluator a sense of who I am? my goals? my intent to be an administrator and This document is a visual record of your accomplishments, achievements, strengths, and experiences. It is a reflective summarization of your career to date, and a statement of your intent to continue to advance to your desired goal in administration. (1) Letter of application to the department (2) Statement of goals (3) Current resume (4) Official transcript(s) (5) Philosophy of education statement Thank you for your portfolio submission. The faculty will evaluate your portfolio using a scoring rubric. This score will become part of your overall rating for your application. The following areas will be assessed: 1. Structure of the Portfolio 2. Concepts and Content about Teaching and Learning 3. Knowledge and Application 4. Professional Growth and Development 5. Leadership Activities, Behavior, and Experiences