#http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/resources/faq_answers.php
FAQs: Answers - Parent &amp; Family Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parent &amp; Family Services About Events Communication Resources Get Involved Give Back Visit UofM Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Home Parent &amp; Family Services Resources FAQs: Answers FAQ: Answers Academics How does my student actually register for classes at the UofM? A: Your student will register for classes online using the University's web portal, myMemphis, to access registration web pages. Following their application to the University, students were mailed login information that contained instructions as to how to activate the Username/Password combination needed to login to the portal. Once students log in, they should click on the "Student" tab and look for the "Registration Tools" channel. This channel contains the key links needed to register for classes. Students will have to see an advisor before they are cleared to register for classes. For additional information: Admissions Home Page Advising Home Page Registrar's Home Page What makes a student full-time? A: If your undergraduate student is enrolled for a total of 12 credit hours or more in a semester, he or she is considered full-time. For additional information: Classification of Students How many courses can or should a student take a semester? A: The maximum number of credit hours a student can take in a Fall or Spring semester, without special approval, is 20.5. The maximum number for the Summer is 23. Most students should not take the maximum number of hours, especially in their freshman year. An advisor will be helpful in recommending an appropriate load. Students should average 15 credit hours per semester to graduate in four years. For additional information: Maximum Credit Hour Load I need proof that my student is enrolled at the University of Memphis. How can I get this? A: This is called Enrollment Verification and is available from the Registrar's Office. For directions on how to obtain Enrollment Verification, please see the Registrar's Enrollment Verification page . For additional information: Registrar's Degree or Enrollment Verification page How much study time is required? A: A good rule of thumb is that your student should spend two hours preparing for each lecture hour he or she spends in class. Student abilities and course requirements vary; some students may need to spend less time preparing, some more. But the 2-to-1 rule is a reasonable recommendation. Can I contact my student's instructors? A: We recommend that you do not contact your student's instructors on matters such as grades, attendance, assignments, etc. Our instructors consider our students to be adults and, therefore, expect the students to contact them regarding such matters. Also, FERPA restrictions prevent faculty from discussing a student's work with anyone other than the student. However, if your student becomes very ill or incapacitated and is unable to contact his or her instructors, you may have to. Use the online directory search (UofM White Pages) to look up instructor phone numbers and e-mail addresses. If you do not know your student's instructors and your student cannot tell you who they are, contact the Parent Advisory Service at 901.678.2115 for advice on how to proceed. For additional information: FERPA (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act) Information UofM White Pages Does my student have to declare a major right away? What if my student doesn't know what he/she wants to major in? A : No, your student does not have to start college by declaring a major. It is not unusual for entering freshmen to be undecided as to their majors. Those who do not declare a major are classified as "Undecided" and are advised by the Academic Counseling Center . Students should declare a major by the end of their sophomore year. From that point forward, they will be advised by faculty in the college of their declared major. For additional information: Academic Counseling Center How does my student pick or change a major? A: Some students know what they want to major in when they apply for admission. The admission application contains a space for this. However, if your student is like most students, he or she will not be certain of what to major in. Such students are termed "Undecided" or "Undeclared" and assigned to the Academic Counseling Center for advising. Later, when he or she decides upon a major, your student should notify his or her counselor in the Academic Counseling Center. The counselor will transfer your student's records to the appropriate college. That college then notifies your student about advising. Even after your student has declared a major, he or she may decide to change. If so, your student should go to the Dean's Office of the college of the NEW major and request the change. This office will see that records are transferred and that your student is assigned a new advisor. For additional information: Academic Counseling Center Majors and Degree Programs Are freshmen courses taught mostly by temporary or part-time instructors and by graduate assistants? A: This varies by department. In some departments almost all freshman courses are taught by full-time faculty. However, in some departments, a significant portion of freshman courses are taught by graduate assistants, adjunct faculty or a combination of faculty (lecture sections) and graduate assistants (lab). Typically, such courses are introductory courses with numerous sections. Still, some sections of these courses will be taught by full-time faculty, and your student may choose one of these sections. It is important to note that having a graduate assistant or an adjunct faculty member is not a bad thing. Graduate students are top students pursuing advanced degrees in their fields of interest. And adjunct faculty are typically people who have excelled in their field of expertise outside of the University environment (for example, a newspaper editor who agrees to teach a Journalism class). Is any tutoring or extra help available? A: Yes, the University offers extra help to students through its Educational Support Program (ESP) . Your student can work with tutors in the five ESP Learning Centers, request a tutor, or attend helpful study skills seminars. The Learning Centers offer help with a variety of subjects and classes. These services are free. For additional information: Educational Support Program Should my student have a computer? A: Though it might be convenient, it is not absolutely necessary that your student bring a computer to his/her Residence Hall or off-campus housing. The University has many computer labs on campus; the University Center's computing lab is even open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week while classes are in session. Your student can use these labs with his/her valid University ID. The labs have printers, and the computing workstations are equipped with the software that students need to complete coursework for most courses. For additional information: Campus Computing Labs Can my student earn a degree in 4 years? A: It certainly is possible to do this, but it is not at all unusual for students to take more than 4 years to earn a degree. Five years is not uncommon. Consider that your student may change majors one or more times during his or her college career, or might drop some courses now and then, or might not attend during the Summer term, or might have work or other obligations that keep him or her from taking heavy course loads (18 or more hours). Any of these reasons could push your student beyond 4 years. Students should average 15 hours per semester to graduate in four years. Students can use the UMdegree tool to help them see their progress towards graduation. For additional information: UMdegree How are students assigned an advisor? A: Students are assigned an advisor during new student orientation. Students are assigned their advisors based on the information they complete in the paperwork during new student orientation. Once a student declares a major, he or she will be assigned an advisor within their college or school. For additional information: Academic Advising How do I get a copy of last semester's grades or verification that my student qualifies for a Good Student Discount for auto insurance? A: If your insurance company has sent you a discount form to complete, your student can bring it to the Registrar's Office, 003 Wilder Tower. The Registrar's Office will verify the student's information and grades, and sign and date the form. Your student can pick up the form the next day and mail it, or the Registrar can FAX or mail the form to the appropriate number or address (these must be provided). If your insurance company has not provided you with a form , your student can visit the Registrar's Office, show a photo ID (University ID, driver's license, etc.), and request a copy of last semester's grades and Grade Point Average (GPA), both of which the insurance company will require. Provided your student has no "holds" on his/her grades, the Registrar will produce the requested copy. (A grades "hold" usually means that the student owes the University money; grades cannot be released until financial obligations have been fulfilled. Your student can use the registration system to check for Holds.) Your student may also request Good Student Verification by fax at 901.678.1425 rather than going to the Registrar's Office in person. The faxed request must contain the following information: Student's NAME Student's SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER A STATEMENT giving the University of Memphis permission to release last semester's grades and GPA Student's SIGNATURE Photocopy of the student's PICTURE ID (University ID, driver's license, etc.) The ADDRESS or FAX NUMBER where the requested grades and GPA should be delivered When is Commencement? A: For the current semester's commencement date and graduate and visitor information, please click here . For future dates, please click here . For additional information: Commencement Office What are the University Colleges and Academic Departments? A: The University of Memphis has eleven colleges and schools and offer a wide range of majors. For additional information: Academic Departments Grades How do students get their grades? A: Grades are official on the Thursday following the semester's last exam date. Students may then login to myMemphis and view their official grades. Prior to grades being official, students may see their unofficial grades through a dedicated "Unofficial Student Grades" channel on their portal page. Note: Students who have a "transcript hold"--usually placed by the Bursar for unpaid fees or fines--will not be able to view their grades until the hold has been cleared. The University no longer mails grade reports. However, students who need term grades for an employer or insurance agency for proof of satisfactory academic progress may: Request an enrollment verification with grades through myMemphis . This option has a 24-hour turn around, but provides the report on UofM letterhead. Print their official grades from myMemphis and have the Registrar's Office (Student and Faculty Services Counter Staff) validate the printout in Wilder Tower, Room 003. This option is immediate but requires the student to appear in person with a picture ID. For additional information: Grades Can I check my student's grades? A: No, not unless you have your student's consent or you can show that the student is still a dependent for federal income tax purposes. This may seem strange to you, but federal law prevents us from releasing a student's information to anyone but the student unless we have the student's written consent. The specific law is the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), also known as the Buckley Amendment. You can ask your student to show you his or her grades on the web. If this isn't practical, you can ask your student to complete a consent form that would permit the Registrar to release a copy of the grades to you. If your student is unwilling to complete the consent form, you can complete a parent's request for the release of records , provided your student is a dependent for tax purposes. Note: A copy of your most recent tax return showing the student to be a dependent is required. For additional information: FERPA (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act) Information Student Consent to Release Education Record Parent Request for Student Record Finances Is my student eligible for financial aid? A: Any undergraduate, graduate or law student currently enrolled or who applies for admission to The University of Memphis may apply for financial aid. However, students must be accepted into a degree program with a declared major, be a U.S. citizen or eligible non-citizen; be making satisfactory academic progress and be enrolled at least half-time (in most cases) to receive aid. The number of credit hours required for eligibility is as follows: Half Time 3/4 Time Full Time Undergraduate 6 9 12 Graduate* 5 ------ 9 Law** 6 ------ 12 *Graduate assistants are required to be enrolled in 12 graduate credit hours to be considered full-time. **For federal aid purposes, half-time is defined as a minimum of 6 law credit hours for the fall and spring semesters. For law students, half-time during the summer is defined as a minimum of 3 law credit hours. How does my student apply for financial aid? A: To apply for financial aid, a student must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or the Renewal Application electronically using FAFSA on the web.The priority deadline for the Fall semester is February 1 and October 1 for the Spring semester. Submit all documents as requested by the Student Financial Aid Office (i.e. tax returns, verification forms, etc.). If your student has already been admitted, they can use their University account access to check myMemphis for the most up-to-date information on their financial aid application. Other students should follow up with the Student Financial Aid Office periodically to make sure no additional information is needed. If your student listed the University of Memphis on your FAFSA but has decided to attend another school, notify us in order to avoid delays in getting their aid processed elsewhere. Miscellaneous Where can my student buy their books and supplies for classes? A: Students are able to purchase the class textbooks and general class supplies from the University Bookstore . This building is located on campus, in the heart of the University, directly cross from the Michael D. Rose Theatre and behind the University Center. Students can also purchase University paraphernalia, snacks, and general books from the bookstore as well. The bookstore is also available online and students can purchase books to be picked up at the bookstore. For additional information: The University of Memphis Bookstore How does my child reserve an on campus mail box? A: Post office boxes are available for rent. The rental fee is $15.00 per semester for students. For more information, please visit the University Mail Services . Residence Hall Students Students who reside in a residence hall must also rent a post office box in order to receive mail while residing on campus. For additional information: University of Memphis Mail Services My student needs to withdraw from the University. What do they need to do? A: In the event that your student needs to withdraw from the University during a current semester, they should withdraw from their classes. If it is before the drop deadline, they may do so through the myMemphis portal . If the deadline has passed they will need authorization to withdraw. Students should review the Registrar's Withdrawing from the University page for full details. For additional information: Withdrawing from the University Bursar's Office Please also see the section below, "How do I withdraw my student for medical reasons?" What is the University's organizational structure? A: The University is led by president, Dr. M. David Rudd. On his leadership team is Dr. Karen Weddle-West, Provost , Dr. Rosie Phillips Bingham, Vice President for Student Affairs , David Zettergren, Vice President for Business and Finance , Andy Myers, Interim Vice President for Research, Melanie Murry, University Counsel, Ellen Watson, Vice Provost for Information Technology and Chief Information Officer, Charles Burkett, Advisor and R. Brad Martin, Special Advisor. For additional information: President's Office Emergencies and Medical Problems How can I reach my student in an emergency if he or she is in class? A: Contact the University's Police Services department. An officer will locate your student and relay your message. For additional information: Police Services - Phone: 901.678.4357 Police Services - Campus Address: 100 Zach Curlin Garage Police Services' Home Page How does my student withdraw for medical reasons? A: How you proceed in this matter depends on how much of the semester has passed. Before the Last Day to Drop a Class Deadline Your student can withdraw from all courses online until the semester's Last Day to Drop a Class deadline has passed. (This deadline can be found on the semester's Dates &amp; Deadlines calendar.) If your student's condition makes it impossible for him or her to login to the registration system, call the Parent Advisory Service at 901.678.2115 or the Registrar's Office at 901.678.2810 for instructions and assistance. After the Last Day to Drop a Class Deadline If the Last Day to Drop a Class deadline has passed, your student needs to contact the Dean's Office of the college of your student's major , or, if your student has not declared a major, the Academic Counseling Center (ACC). The Dean's Office or ACC will advise you on how to best proceed. In some cases, this office may recommend that your student be issued "I" (Incomplete) grades and be allowed to complete the coursework later. In other instances, the office may recommend that your student be withdrawn from the University. Any requests for a late withdrawal or the issuance of "I" grades must begin with the Dean or the ACC. If you need assistance in determining whether to call the Dean's Office or the ACC, or in determining which Dean's Office to call, contact the Parent Advisory Service at 901.678.2115 or the Registrar at 901.678.2810. For additional information: Academic Counseling Center - Phone: 901.678.2062 Colleges and Schools (links to colleges' websites with contact information) Withdrawing from the University What if my student becomes ill while at college? Can he or she get any treatment on campus? A: Yes, the University's Student Health Center is staffed by a physician, nurses, nurse practitioners, technologists and other support personnel. The Health Center offers a variety of services, but its emphasis is on "the diagnosis and treatment of short-term, acute, medical illnesses on an outpatient basis." If your student isn't feeling well, he or she should visit the Health Center for treatment. Most of the Health Center's services are free to current students, though some services (specialized tests or vaccinations) may have a cost. Visit Student Health Center's web site for more information. For additional information: Student Health Services Home Page What is Tiger Text? How can my student sign up for this? Can my student sign me up? A: TigerText is a text messaging service that the University uses to communicate emergency information to students, faculty, and staff. Students can sign up multiple phone numbers, including a parent's cell phone. We will continue to use a variety of other methods as appropriate, including email, telephone and an outdoor warning system. For more information about emergency planning at the University of Memphis, click here . Parent E-lerts, through the Parent E-news , will be sent in the event that there is a an event on campus that is relevant to students and parents. For additional information: Tiger Text Crisis Management Housing What are the residence halls like? What sort of on-campus housing options are available? A: For complete information, visit the Residence Life's web site . This web site is an excellent source of information on available on-campus housing. You can check out the various residence halls and their rooming options, look at floor plans, check out rental rates, find application information, and more. For additional information: Residence Life Home Page What sort of off-campus housing is available? A: The Adult and Commuter Services Office can provide you and your student with information on housing options in the Memphis area: rentals, looking for roommates, and even buying opportunities. This office publishes a very useful "Apartment Guide" on its website. The guide contains not only ads for various apartments in the area, but tips on safety and information on renters' rights and responsibilities.The office also hosts an annual Off Campus Housing Fair each year in March. For additional information: Adult and Commuter Services Home Page (See especially the "Services" section.) Off-Campus Housing Expenses How much is tuition? A: Tuition rates (fees) are reviewed and often revised on a yearly basis by the Tennessee Board of Regents , the governing body over the University of Memphis. When the rates are ready for publication, the Bursar's Office publishes them on its web site. Click here to view the published rates. For additional information: Semester Fee Charts Tuition Estimator Bursar's Office How can I pay my student's fees? A: You can pay your student's fees online if your student has established a Parent login for you. Please note: Only your student can establish a Parent login for you. Your Parent login is good for online fee payment purposes only. You cannot use this login to gain access to your student's education record. Students may pay their fees in a variety of ways: in person at the Bursar's window, by mail , or online . You can "assist" them (supply the money) in any of these approaches, but there are some restrictions. If your student is going to pay in person at the Bursar's window, you may, of course, accompany your student and pay the fees yourself, or give your student your cash, check, or credit card to do so.The office is open Monday through Friday, 8:00 am to 4:30 pm. If your student is going to pay by mail , you can include your check or supply your student with your credit card information. If your student wishes to pay online through the portal without establishing a Parent login for you, you will have to provide your student with your credit card information. For additional information: Bursar's Office Student Online payment Information Parent/Authorized User Access Information Can I buy my student's textbooks online? A: Yes, your student can purchase his or her books online and can be picked up in the bookstore. Alternative textbook purchasing options are available online, not through the university bookstore. Many times class textbooks can be bought at cheaper prices online; however, the University is not responsible if the student purchases an incorrect edition. For additional information: University Bookstore (Click on the Books link at the top of the page.) Scholarships, Aid, and Student Employment What sort of financial aid or scholarships are available? A: The Student Financial Aid and Scholarship offices both maintain websites that provide you with complete information on financial aid and available scholarships. The sites also contain contact information so that you may submit questions to these offices. For additional information: Financial Aid Scholarship Office Is my student eligible for in-state tuition? A: Residency can be a complicated issue. Click here to view the residency requirements for students and potential fee waivers. If you have any question as to whether your student qualifies for in-state tuition, call or stop by the Office of Admissions , 101 Wilder Tower, 901.678.2111 to discuss your residency issues. For additional information: Residency Information Admissions Is my student eligible for a Tennessee Hope lottery scholarship? A: If your student graduated from a Tennessee high school before January 2003, then he or she is NOT eligible. If your student graduated from an eligible Tennessee high school in January 2003 or later , then he or she MAY be eligible. Home-schooled students and students who have passed a GED examination MAY be eligible as well. Eligibility, application for, and continuance of these scholarships depend on many factors. The Scholarship office is available to answer questions at 901.678.3213. For additional information: College Pays (Tennessee Lottery Scholarship Information) Scholarship Office Does the University offer any internships? A: Yes, internships are available and highly recommended for University of Memphis students. For additional information: University Internship Program What jobs are available on campus for students? A: The University does offer on-campus part-time employment for qualified students. These positions are classified as either Federal Work Study Student Employment or Regular Student Employment positions. For information on qualifications and responsibilities, as well as job listings, visit Financial Aid's web page (Student Employment). For additional information: Student Employment Regular Student Positions Federal Work Study Campus Safety How safe is the campus? A: The University of Memphis has the lowest crime rate of any urban campus in Tennessee. Visit our Police Services' web page for more information and for links to campus safety information. Be sure to review the Campus Safety Report and to check out the Tiger Escort Program , the free personal escort service available to all students on campus during evenings. For additional information: Police Services' Home Page Campus Safety Report Tiger Patrol Escort Program Career &amp; Psychological Counseling Can I make an appointment for my daughter/son to do career testing? A: No, your student will need to make their own appointment. Please have your student call 901-678-2068 to schedule an appointment for them to see a career counselor. For additional information: Career and Psychological Counseling Center Can anyone come in for counseling whenever they want? A: No, students who are taking at least 6 credit hours per semester are eligible for free counseling, but they will need to call 901.678.2068 or come to Wilder Tower 214 to fill out paperwork and make an appointment that fits their schedule and that of the counselor. For additional information: Career and Psychological Counseling Center Is there a limit on how many times they can come in? A: No, the number of visits depends on what the counselor and the client decide between them and is not set at a particular number. For additional information: Career and Psychological Counseling Center Can I come with them to their appointments? A: You are welcome to wait for them in the lobby of Wilder 214 or 211, but it's up to the student to decide if they want their family present at the time of counseling. If there is a reason for you to be present and the student consents, then you will need to complete and sign a form that gives the counselor permission to allow this. For additional information: Career and Psychological Counseling Center Is there a charge for counseling? A: No, all students taking 6 credit hours or more per semester, Fall and Spring, and at least one credit during summer semester, are eligible for free counseling services. However, testing services do involve nominal fees for processing the various assessment instruments the Center uses. For additional information: Career and Psychological Counseling Center Can you give my child an aptitude test to show them what they're good at? A: Yes, the Center has Interest Inventories and Personality Profiles to assist students in finding out where their interests lie and what fields might suit them as to their likes and dislikes. These tests do not measure aptitude. There are many resources the career counselors utilize to assist them to choose a major. For additional information: Career and Psychological Counseling Center Is there a psychiatrist available for prescribing medication, like for ADD or depression? A: Students who do not have insurance for psychiatric medication are eligible to be seen by our consulting psychiatrist for assistance. The psychiatrist is only on campus two days a month and the practice is limited to those without insurance. School insurance that does not provide this coverage does not disqualify a student. For additional information: Career and Psychological Counseling Center The Psychological Services Center Are services only for undergraduates? A: No, Center services are available for all students, including graduate, law and doctoral students. For additional information: Career and Psychological Counseling Center Disability Resources for Students Can my daughter/son get testing for ADHD/LD before school starts so s/he doesn't have to wait? A: If the student would like to use Counseling Center for testing, they must be currently enrolled in classes that semester. If the student uses the Psychological Services Center in the Psychology Department, they do not have to be enrolled in classes. Students may also use a private evaluator. Disability Resources for Students maintains a list of evaluators and can be contacted for suggestions at 901.678.2880. For additional information: Psychological Services Center Counseling Center Disability Resources for Students How much does the ADHD/LD testing cost? A: Please contact the Counseling Center for current pricing; there is no charge for counseling appointments. For additional information: Counseling Center Psychological Services Center I would like to have my son/daughter evaluated for a Learning Disability or Attention Deficit Disorder. Are there any places on campus that can do this type of evaluation? A: Yes. The UofM is fortunate to have 2 places on campus which perform psycho-educational evaluations, Counseling, Tutoring, and Testing and the Psychological Services Center. Both charge fees, but the fees are much less than those charged by private psychologists. For additional information: Disability Resources for Students Counseling Center Psychological Services Center If my son/daughter registers with Disability Resources for Students, will reference to his/her disability appear on his/her transcript? A: Disability information is confidential and will not appear on student transcripts. For additional information: Disability Resources for Students What does my son/daughter have to do to register with Disability Resources for Students? A: In order for your student to register with Disability Resources for Students your student will need to complete an Intake Form, which is available in the Disability Resources for Students office (110 Wilder Tower; 678-2880) and provide current professional documentation of the disability and the functional limitations related to the disability. After the documentation is reviewed, the student will be called and an Intake meeting will be scheduled. For additional information: Disability Resources for Students I am concerned about my son/daughter's disability limitations will affect his/her career choice. Can you assist with this? A: Yes. Disability Resources for Students staff works in collaboration with Career Services and Career Counseling to assist students in thinking through the many issues relating to choice of major and career field. For additional information: Career Services Career and Psychological Counseling Center Psychological Services Center Life After College Does the University help students find jobs after they graduate? A: The University's Career Services Office offers excellent assistance to students searching for post-college jobs. Students can register with the office's online recruiting system - eRecruiting. This system allows them to review job listings, post their resumes, and set up on-campus interviews with recruiters. Additionally, the office offers workshops in writing resumes and interview preparation. Individual meetings are also available to students. For additional information: Career Services Dining Services What is Dining Dollars? A: It is a program in which all full time undergraduate students who attend at least one class at a University of Memphis campus participate. At the beginning of the fall and spring semester, each student who is enrolled in 12 or more hours will automatically have $300 ($600 for the academic year) in Dining Dollar$ charged to their account which will be available for use at campus dining and vending locations. Students can also use the monies toward a campus meal plan. The $300 per semester averages to $2.68 per day or $18.75 per week to spend on campus for food, beverage, and snacks. Dining Dollar$ are not charged for the summer semesters. For additional information: Dining Dollars Dining Dollars Transfer to Meal Plans How can I add Dining Dollar$ and Tiger Funds to my student's account? A: Additional Dining Dollar$ and Tiger Funds can be added to a student's account. This can be done by visiting the Bursar's Office cashier window and telling the cashier you would like to add money to the student's Dining Dollar$ or Tiger Funds account. The cashiers accept cash, check, Visa, MasterCard, and Discover. You can also add monies online on the Campus Card website. For additional information: Dining Dollars Campus Card Office What are the costs for meal plans? A: The cost for meal plans vary based on the type and where the student resides, on or off campus. Click below for more information. For additional information: Resident Student Meal Plan Commuter Student Meal Plan Information Technology Is there a computer lab in the University Center? A: Yes. There is a Technology Hub in the University Center that is accessible 24 hours a day when classes are in session. The McWherter Commons computers are now available only during the normal library operating hours. The Technology Hub is located in the University Center on the second floor, room 265. For additional information: The University Center Floor plan for the University Center Can my student rent a laptop computer? A: Yes. It is possible for you student to rent a laptop computer at the circulation desk in McWherter Library. The rental lasts for up to 4 hours and the student will be asked to surrender their University ID which will be returned to the student upon delivery of the laptop. For additional information: Laptop rental University Libraries Parking Services How can my student obtain a parking pass? A: Students can order parking permits online or if the student registers prior to late registration then a semester validation sticker will be mailed to the address of the student which is downloaded directly from the Records Department. If the student does not have a current permit in our database then a permit is also mailed along with the validation sticker. If the student does not receive their permit or semester validation sticker by the first day of classes, he/she must come to the Parking Office to obtain one. For additional information: Parking Services What is priority parking? A: Priority parking refers to the parking permits that students can purchase at the beginning of a semester only during the sales opportunities. Gate Access Parking is available each semester on a first come first serve basis. Availability of parking lots differs each semester. Check with the Parking Services Office for information on space availability. Students may only purchase into a Priority lot for a given semester during the permit sales window. Evening only access is also available for students to purchase. Evening access begins at 4:30 p.m. For additional information: Priority Parking Calendar When are semester breaks, finals, and other important dates? A: There are numerous important dates and deadlines throughout the year that pertain to your student's college career: payment deadlines, exam dates, breaks etc… To view these dates and more, please visit the Office of the Registrar's Academic Year Page to view the relevant academic year calendar. For additional information: Academic Calendars Events Calendar UMparents Calendar Health Insurance How can I get health insurance through the University for my student? A: Students or parents of student can search for insurance at . The website includes information explaining the meaning of various terms, plans, and coverage types and presents plans that comply with the coverage requirements of the ACA offered through the ACA "exchange" as well as plans offered "off exchange." Students may view a plan summary/brochure online and may also complete the plan enrollment process online. For additional information: Student Health Center Visiting Campus How do I get to campus? A: Directions to the University of Memphis will vary depending on from where you are driving. For directions specific to your needs, please click here . For additional information: Visitors Information Parent Website: Visiting Campus Honors Program What is the Honors Program? A: The University of Memphis offers an exceptional experience for all of its undergraduates. For academically ambitious and talented students, we offer something extra — the opportunity to participate in the Helen Hardin Honors Program. The Helen Hardin Honors Program is renowned for extraordinary professors, small classes, and opportunities for research in a variety of disciplines. Our students are award winners, having won the Truman, Goldwater, Fulbright, and Rotary scholarships in recent years, as well as major campus awards. And that is what the Honors Program is about — providing intellectual challenge and opportunities for outstanding students. For additional information: Helen Hardin Honors Program Can anyone apply to be in the Honors Program? A: National Merit Finalists, and recipients of the Presidential and the Provost's Scholarships are automatically admissible to the Program upon receipt of their applications. Generally, our minimal admission requirements are a 27 ACT, or its equivalent on other tests, and a 3.50 high school GPA. Transfer students or students currently enrolled at the University of Memphis are also eligible for the Honors Program if they have earned an overall grade point average of 3.25. Students who do not qualify in one of these ways will be considered for provisional admission upon direct application. To be considered for admission, applicants must be admitted to the University of Memphis and complete a separate application for admission to the Helen Hardin Honors Program. An application may be submitted on-line from the Honors Program's website. Apply Now! For additional information: Honors Program Program Admission More Questions? I can't find the answer I need on this page. Can you help? A: TOM can. If your question/answer doesn't appear in the list of commonly asked questions above, submit your question to AskTOM. You will receive an answer by e-mail within 2 days. Just click on the AskTOM link to get started. For additional information: Ask TOM Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Contact Us Got questions, comments, or concerns? We're here to help! Parent &amp; Family E-news Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News. Parent &amp; Family Handbook Learn about opportunities and services available to students. In the Now: September FAQs What you need to know this month to help you help your student Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .