#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/admissions/intl_adm.php
International Student Admission - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Admissions Information Residency Classification Admission to Masters Degree Programs Admission to Doctoral Degree Programs Admission to Education Specialist Program Admission of International Students Readmission Requirements Other Admission Regulations Miscellaneous Information Home Graduate Catalog Admissions International Student Admission Admission of International Students The University of Memphis believes that the presence of international students on campus enriches the educational environment for all. The University of Memphis is authorized under Federal law to enroll non-immigrant alien students on the F-1 student visa. We accept only students with the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor's degree--16 years of formal schooling. Prospective students must apply to the Graduate School and the respective department (only if the department requires an additional application). Individual departments may have different admission requirements and application deadlines. It is essential that you familiarize yourself with departmental information. Applications are available for on-line submission at banssbprod.memphis.edu/pls/PROD/bwskalog.P_DispLoginNon . A non-refundable application and processing fee of sixty dollars U.S. (U.S. $60.00) is required of every international applicant, unless previously paid. Payment of the application fee is by credit card. For a list of specific program deadlines, click here. For admission to a degree program, international applicants should allow at least four months for necessary documents to be processed by the appropriate degree program and the Graduate Admissions office. All test scores and credential evaluations must be on file in the Graduate Admissions, 101 Wilder Tower, at least four months before the desired enrollment date. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure full consideration. Applicants will be selected on a competitive basis and, therefore, admission will not be granted to all applicants who meet only the minimum requirements. Some departments require higher standards or additional items such as portfolios, proficiency examinations, auditions, etc. When Graduate Admissions receives your application materials, an official file is established and reviewed. Your requested department then reviews your application and makes a recommendation to Graduate Admissions. You will be notified as soon as a decision has been reached. Letters of Recommendation: If the program to which you are applying requires letters of recommendation, have them sent directly to the department. Some departments also require other material such a a statement of professional goals. Be sure to check with them. Readmission into the University: International students who wish to apply for readmission to the University must meet the deadlines set for regular admissions. English Conditional Admission: International students are required to demonstrate a strong grasp of the English language before admission into graduate programs. Conditional admission may be granted depending on individual academic departmental policy. If English conditional admission is offered, students will need to register for English skills assessment and take instructional sessions (if required as a result of that assessment) through the University's Intensive English for Internationals (IEI) program ( Upon successful completion of the requisite sessions, as determined by IEI, the student's English skills will be considered up to standard and the TOEFL/IELTS requirement may be waived depending on specific academic department policy. The student can then proceed into their graduate academic program. Please note that in order to have a complete application packet, students seeking English conditional admission will need to simultaneously apply for the IEI program through the link above, to the Graduate School by clicking here, and to their academic program by visiting the department website. Please note that a student cannot be a graduate assistant (GA) until they have been fully admitted and have begun their graduate academic program. Please review your academic program department's website and graduate catalog entries to determine if English conditional admission is offered. Questions can be directed to the program's graduate coordinator. Students will pay IEI fees until they meet the language criterion. If courses are taken outside of IEI, the student will be charged additional tuition at the regular rate. Please contact James Kierulff in the Graduate School for more information. ADDITIONAL ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS In addition to general admissions requirements, international students must provide the following items: TOEFL Scores: All applicants who will be attending the University on a student visa and who are not native speakers of English and are not graduates of The University of Memphis must supply a minimum score of 550 on the paper, a 210 on the computer-based, or 79 on the internet based Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). Some degree programs require a higher TOEFL score; check department listings for specific requirements. Testing locations and other information can be obtained from or by writing to TOEFL, Educational Testing Service, Princeton, New Jersey, 08540, U.S.A. All test scores must be sent directly from the testing agency to The University of Memphis (institution code R-1459). Graduate Admissions will accept scores on the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) in lieu of the TOEFL. The minimum acceptable IELTS score is 6.0.The University is pleased to offer English Conditional Admission for qualified students. Students who are unable, or do not feel prepared, to take the TOEFL or IELTS can request conditional admission based on completing an English skills assessment, any required English skill building sessions ( ) and, if required, a TOEFL/IELTS exam while you are in the USA. For questions or guidance through the English conditional admission process, please contact James Kierulff ( jkerulff@memphis.edu ). Conditional admission may not be offered by all departments. Please check departmental graduate catalog webpages for program specific information. Evaluation of Credentials: Applicants whose highest degree is from a foreign university may be required to have their credentials evaluated by any credentialing agency listed on the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services web site ( ). Please check the website of the specific program to determine if this evaluation is required. Health Certificate: Within 30 days from the first day of classes, each international student must submit a certificate from a licensed U.S. physician or other qualified U.S. medical authority verifying freedom from tuberculosis. Failure to do so shall result in denial of enrollment. In the event that a student either has tuberculosis or has potential tuberculosis requiring medical treatment, continued enrollment will be conditional upon the determination by a licensed U.S. physician that such enrollment does not present a risk to others and upon the student's compliance with any medical treatment program. Health Insurance: All international students must purchase health insurance before they are allowed to enroll. Click here for more information. Affidavit of Support and Financial Statement: An applicant who holds or will require an "F-1" student visa must supply, on the form provided by the University, sufficient evidence of financial support for the applicant and all members of his/her family who will accompany the applicant to Memphis. This requires that the applicant certify that his/her intent is to attend the University full-time and that no employment, other than assistantships, will be required. An affidavit of support and financial statement are not required for admission; however, international students (F-1) requiring issuance of Form I-20 must supply sufficient evidence of financial support for the applicant and all members of his/her family requiring issuance of dependent Form I-20. Please contact academic departments for information on additional requirements and graduate assistantships. Advisors for graduate students are typically department based. Often, departments will assign advisors to students upon admission based on areas of interest. After students have matriculated and enrolled in coursework under various faculty members, students may select a different advisor. To inquire about your academic advisor, please contact the graduate coordinator or department chair for your program. MASTER'S DEGREE PROGRAMS The following admissions requirements are minimum standards that identify the pool of master's level applicants from which each academic unit makes its selection. Prospective students should check with the appropriate degree program for specific deadlines. For admission to a degree program, applicants should allow a reasonable amount of time for necessary documents to be processed by the appropriate department and Graduate Admissions. Baccalaureate Degree: The applicant must provide an official transcript showing that a bachelor's degree was awarded by an accredited college or university. The applicant must have earned an acceptable grade point average. In addition, transcripts from any other college or university attended must be requested. (Students who received bachelor's degrees from The University of Memphis may disregard this requirement.) Only transcripts received directly from an issuing institution are considered official. Signed and sealed transcripts that have been in the applicant's possession can be used for admission purposes; however, official transcripts must later be requested. Personal copies are not acceptable as official documents. Entrance Examinations: New applicants to the Graduate School (except to the MALS program) must have taken an appropriate entrance examination within five years of the application date. Contact the appropriate program for information on which tests and what scores are acceptable. Scores on MAT exams written in less than 2 month intervals are not acceptable. Test scores must be sent directly to Graduate Admissions from the testing agency.The University of Memphis institution code number for reporting ETS scores is R-1459. See program descriptions for more information on requirements. Some programs may waive the entrance examination requirement for applicants with exceptional credentials, extensive professional experience, or a prior graduate degree from an accredited institution. These waivers are at the discretion of the academic program. Check individual program descriptions for details. Program Requirements: Many academic units have separate departmental applications and/or additional requirements for admission. Check program descriptions for more information on requirements. EDUCATION SPECIALIST (ED.S.) PROGRAM The Education Specialist degree is designed for the educator-practitioner who desires post-masters training but who does not wish to earn a doctorate. This program is administered by the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences; please refer to the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences section of the Graduate Catalog for a more complete description or contact the dean's office in the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences for additional details. DOCTORAL DEGREE PROGRAMS The following Graduate School admissions requirements are minimum standards that identify the pool of doctoral level applicants from which each academic area make their selections. A Baccalaureate or Master's Degree as specified by the program: The applicant must provide an official transcript showing an earned bachelor's or master's degree, depending on program requirements. The degree must have been awarded by an accredited college or university. Only transcripts received directly from an issuing institution are considered official. Personal copies are not acceptable as official documents. Entrance Examinations: New applications to the Graduate School require submission of an appropriate entrance examination test score that is not more than five years old. Contact your program for information on which tests and what scores are acceptable. Test scores must be sent directly to Graduate Admissions by the testing agency.The University of Memphis institution code number for reporting ETS scores is R-1459. Some programs may waive the entrance examination requirement for applicants with exceptional credentials, extensive professional experience, or a prior doctoral degree from an accredited institution. See individual program descriptions for details. Program Requirements: Some academic units may have separate departmental applications and/or additional requirements, such as portfolios, proficiency examinations, auditions, etc. Refer to the appropriate program description in the Graduate Catalog for details. Admissions Information Residency Classification Admission to Masters Degree Programs Admission to Doctoral Degree Programs Admission to Education Specialist Program Admission of International Students Readmission Requirements Other Admission Regulations Miscellaneous Information Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .