#http://www.memphis.edu/philosophy/people/
People - Philosophy - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Philosophy BA Graduate People Research News &amp; Events Resources SJP Contact People Core Faculty Visiting Scholars Instructors Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Staff Home Philosophy People People in the Department of Philosophy Core Faculty Luvell Anderson Assistant Professor Philosophy of language, philosophy of race, semantics, ethics of racial language Stephan Blatti Associate Professor Chair Metaphysics, philosophy of mind Remy Debes Associate Professor Ethics, moral psychology, philosophy of emotion, Scottish Enlightenment, Hume, Adam Smith Verena Erlenbusch Assistant Professor Director of Placement Pre-Law Faculty Affiliate Advisor Social and political philosophy, philosophy of law, contemporary continental philosophy Shaun Gallagher Lillian and Morrie Moss Professor of Philosophy Phenomenology, philosophy of mind, philosophical psychology, embodiment, intersubjectivity, hermeneutics Lucien Manning Garrett Senior Lecturer (Lambuth Campus) Philosophy of religion, contemporary epistemology Bill Lawson Distinguished Professor African American philosophy, social and political philosophy Mary Beth Mader Professor Director of Graduate Admissions 20th-century continental philosophy, feminist theory, ontology Thomas Nenon Professor Dean, College of Arts &amp; Sciences Husserl, Heidegger, Kant and German idealism, hermeneutics, philosophy of the social sciences Timothy Roche Associate Professor Director of Graduate Studies Greek and Roman Philosophy, History of Philosophy, Ethical Theory, Logic Kas Saghafi Associate Professor Contemporary continental philosophy, philosophy and literature, aesthetics, and social/political philosophy Deborah Tollefsen Professor Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences Philosophy of mind, epistemology, social ontology Somogy Varga Associate Professor Editor, The Southern Journal of Philosophy Philosophy of psychiatry/mind, moral psychology, social philosophy, critical theory Visiting Scholars: 2015-16 Dylan Trigg Marie Curie Postdoctoral Researcher Phenomenology and existentialism, philosophies of embodiment, and aesthetics Anika Fiebich Humboldt Feodor Lynen Research Postdoctoral Fellow Philosophy of mind, social understanding, self-consciousness, collective intentionality Helen Steward Professor of Philosophy of Mind and Action, University of Leeds Philosophy of Action/Free Will; Philosophy of Mind; Metaphysics Michael Kirchoff Lecturer in Philosophy, University of Wollongong Empirical sciences of mind, naturalistic philosophy of mind Albert Newen Professor of Philosophy, Ruhr Universität Bochum Philosophy of Mind Visiting PhD Students: 2015-16 Susana Ramírez Visiting Student Cognitive Science, Philosophy of Mind Instructors Melissa Ebbers Instructor &amp; Online Coordinator maebbers&lt;at&gt;memphis&lt;dot&gt;edu Sheila Hollander Adjunct Instructor 310 Clement Hall shollndr&lt;at&gt;memphis&lt;dot&gt;edu Amit Sen Instructor 312 Clement Hall amitsen&lt;at&gt;memphis&lt;dot&gt;edu Marda Kaiser-Rehnelt Adjunct Instructor 312 Clement Hall mkaiser&lt;at&gt;memphis&lt;dot&gt;edu Emeritus and Deceased Faculty Pleshette DeArmitt Associate Professor Contemporary continental philosophy, feminist theory, psychoanalysis, social and political thought Gene James Emeritus Professor Value theory, applied ethics, American philosophy, philosophy of religion Hoke Robinson Emeritus Professor Kant, rationalism, history of modern philosophy Nancy Simco Emeritus Professor Analytic philosophy, metaphysics, advanced logic John Tienson Emeritus Professor Philosophy of mind, metaphysics, philosophy of language, British empiricists People Core Faculty Visiting Scholars Instructors Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Staff Apply to the Graduate Program Want to pursue a MA or PhD in Philosophy? Find out how to apply. Online B.A. Want to pursue your college degree and manage your busy lifestyle? Experience online classes at the UofM. Pre-law Advising Are you interested in a career in the legal profession? Consider a degree in Philosophy! Support the Department Find out how you can support the Department of Philosophy. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .