#http://www.memphis.edu/wumr/about/
UofM - WUMR - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. WUMR About On-Air DJ Profiles News Supporters Underwriting CCFA About About WUMR Staff Home WUMR About About WUMR Broadcasting in stereo with 25,000 watts of power, WUMR is the only exclusive jazz outlet in the Memphis metro area. The station offers a mix of contemporary and traditional jazz, as well as a sampling of fusion, Blues, Latin, and new age Jazz. The station also serves the Mid-South community with unique educational, sports, and community service programming. WUMR has been the University of Memphis broadcasting outlet since 1979, when Southwestern at Memphis (now Rhodes College) sold one of its two radio licenses to then Memphis State University. WSMS-FM 91.7, carrying the Memphis State call letters, was created as an all-jazz station. Although the call letters changed to WUMR, when Memphis State became the University of Memphis on July 1, 1994, the station, which is now known as WUMR "The Jazz Lover" U 92-FM, has stayed true to the all-jazz format during its 30-year history. WUMR is part of the College of Communication and Fine Arts' (CCFA) Department of Communication. An element of the station's mission is to train communication and journalism students in broadcasting. "When I founded the station, we chose the all-jazz format for three reasons," says Richard Ranta, CCFA Dean. "We didn't want to compete with the programming of commercial radio in Memphis, and none of the stations were playing jazz regularly. We wanted a musical style that appealed to a multiracial audience and, finally, jazz was a format that fit in nicely with the jazz curriculum in our music department, now the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music," Ranta continues. Although WUMR relies on volunteers and students for on-air shifts, and to manage some of the daily tasks, the station's recipe for success is its focus on professionalism. This professionalism was brought to the station when the late Bob McDowell was hired as WUMR's general manager in 1982. McDowell was a great influence in every aspect of the broadcast industry, not only in Memphis and the surrounding area, but also nationally. He was the backbone of WUMR, founded and was executive director of the Memphis Area Radio Stations Association, was program director for WDIA as well as program director, station and general manager for WRVR before he took the position at the University of Memphis. Today, the station provides the best in classic and contemporary jazz to local listeners, 24-hours a day, and, a tribute to 21st century technology, the station now also streams online so that jazz lovers from all over the world can tune in. WUMR will continue to be a major learning laboratory for students, giving many of them the very first opportunity to work at an FM station—on air and behind the scenes. It still supports the jazz program at the University of Memphis as well as local jazz musicians, and Mid-South jazz lovers. Malvin Massey, long-time WUMR music director and former jazz musician, is the station's general manager. WUMR The Jazz Lover U92 FM 3745 Central Avenue G13 Theatre and Communication Building Phone: (901) 678-2560 Fax: (901) 678-4899 wumr@memphis.edu Request Line: (901) 678-4867 Jazz Connection: (877) 955-JAZZ Underwriting: (901) 678-4843 About About WUMR Staff Listen Now! Tune into U92 online 24/7! Make A Gift Listener Request Line (901) 678-4867 Contact WUMR U92 FM (901) 678-2560 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .