#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/pdfs/gre_student_presentation.pdf
More Opportunities for Success with the GRE ® revised General Test University of Memphis 10/27/11 Michelle Hampton Global Client Relations ETS - Princeton, NJ What we will cover today Overview of the GRE ® revised General Test Content and Structure of the Test Test - Taker Friendly Design Changes to the Score Scale Receiving Scores Test Preparation Material General Test Taking Strategies Where You Can Go for More Information Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved. ETS, the ETS logo, LISTENING. LEARNING. LEADING., GRE and POWERPREP are registered trademarks of Educational Testing Service (ETS). BETTER BY DESIGN and SCOREITNOW! are trademarks of ETS. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. The GRE ® revised General Test measures your readiness for graduate - level study Thousands of graduate institutions around the world accept GRE scores for their graduate and professional programs About 70% of the leading business schools accept GRE scores for their MBA programs*, with more accepting it every day Since many graduate and business schools accept GRE scores, you can take one test to pursue both options Scores are good for five years, so you can take the test *According to U.S. News & World Report Top 100 Best Business Schools The GRE ® revised General Test can help you achieve your academic dreams Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . These changes are significant and mean good things for you New types of questions that are more like the kind of A new test - taker friendly design The GRE ® revised General Test launched on August 1, 2011 Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . There are about 700 test centers in more than 160 countries The computer - based test is available on a continuous basis throughout the year in most regions The computer - based test is available 1 2 times per month in Mainland China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Korea 2011 Dates: August 6, September 3, October 23, November 5, November 19, December 3, December 17, 2011 Paper - based test is offered up to 3 times per year in locations where computer - based testing is not available October 22, 2011, November 19, 2011 and February 11, 2012 You can take the GRE ® revised General Test in many different locations Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Verbal Reasoning: Measures reading comprehension skills and verbal and analytical reasoning skills, focusing on your ability to analyze and evaluate written material Quantitative Reasoning: Measures problem - solving ability, focusing on basic concepts of arithmetic, algebra, geometry and data analysis Analytical Writing: Measures critical thinking and analytical writing skills, specifically the ability to articulate complex ideas clearly and effectively What skills does the GRE ® revised General Test measure? Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Here's what is new for the Verbal Reasoning section: Antonyms and analogies have been removed from the test, so there are no questions that test vocabulary out of context New question types There are more Reading Comprehension questions Here's what is new for the Quantitative Reasoning section: Focuses more on questions involving data interpretation and real - life scenarios New question types An onscreen calculator* is available Here's what is new for the Analytical Writing section: This section has not changed dramatically; however, you'll need to provide more focused responses based on the tasks presented *For those taking the paper - based GRE ® revised General Test, calculators will be provided at the test center for use during the test. More aligned with the types of skills needed in graduate and business schools Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Structure of the computer - based GRE ® revised General Test Section Number of Questions Time Analytical Writing (2 sections) 30 min. 30 min. Verbal Reasoning (2 sections) Approximately 20 questions per section 30 min. per section Quantitative Reasoning (2 sections) Approximately 20 questions per section 35 min. per section Unscored* (Position varies) Varies Varies Research ** (At end of test) Varies Varies * An unidentified unscored section that does not count toward a score may be included and may appear in any order after the Analytical Writing section. ** An identified research section may be included in place of the unscored section. The research section will always appear at the end of the test. Questions in this section are included for ETS research purposes and will not count toward your score. Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . The computer - based GRE ® Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning sections are section - level adaptive The computer selects the second section of a measure first section Within each section, all questions contribute equally to the final score Both sections are important, since the final score on each measure is based on the total number of correct answers and the level of difficulty of the questions Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Breaks There is a 10 - minute break after the third section, and a one - minute break between the other test sections You might want to replenish your supply of scratch paper during each scheduled break Section timing will not stop if you take an unscheduled break, so you should proceed with your test without interruption once it begins Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . A new test - taker friendly design for a more flexible test - taking experience The test is designed to offer a more flexible test - taking experience, giving test takers the freedom to use more of their own personal test - taking strategies. New functionality includes: Ability to edit or change answers within a section Ability to mark questions, so the test taker can skip and return to them later within a timed section Test takers can navigate freely within a timed section An onscreen calculator will be provided on the Quantitative Reasoning measure* *For those taking the paper - based GRE ® revised General Test, calculators will be provided at the test center for use during the test. Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . You can move more freely within a section More questions with real - life scenarios New types of questions An onscreen calculator A new test - taker friendly design for a more flexible test - taking experience (continued) Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . A new GRE ® score scale Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning scores will be reported on a new score scale of 130 170, in 1 - point increments Current score scale: 200 800, in 10 - point increments The Analytical Writing scores will continue to be reported on the same 0 6 score scale, in half - point increments Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Viewing Your Scores At the End of the Test When you have completed all of the test sections, you will be asked if you would like to report or cancel your scores. If you select to report your scores, you will view your unofficial scores on the screen and the scores become a permanent part of your record If testing between August and November 2011 you will view your unofficial Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning estimated score ranges on the prior (200 800) score scale Beginning in December 2011 you will view your unofficial Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning scores on the new 130 170 score scale at the end of their test After viewing your scores, you will designate up to four institutions to receive your scores Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Receiving An Official Score Report You will receive an official paper score report in the mail per our score reporting timelines The score report will contain the your Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning scores on the new 130 170 score scale The score report will also contain your score on the Analytical Writing measure Score reporting is cumulative. Your score report will contain all General Test scores you earned for the past five testing years. Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . A New Test Taker Score Report Detailed score reporting schedule for the computer - based GRE ® revised general test Test Dates Approximate Score Report Mailing Dates August 1, 2011 September 8, 2011 November 8, 2011 September 9, 2011 October 2, 2011 November 10, 2011 October 3 , 2011 October 15, 2011 November 17, 2011 October 16 , 2011 November 18, 2011 December 1, 2011 November 19 , 2011 November 28, 2011 December 8, 2011 November 29, 2011 or later 10 15 days after test date Note: Score reports for paper - based administrations will continue to be reported six weeks after the test date. Starting in December 2011, score reporting for the computer - based test will return to the regular reporting period of 10 to 15 days after the test date. Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Sample questions POWERPREP ® II software Offers a simulated test - taking experience of the computer - based GRE ® revised General Test The Practice Book for the Paper - Based GRE ® revised General Test Offers a simulated test - taking experience of the paper - based GRE ® revised General Test Math Review Reviews the mathematical skills and concepts test takers may see on the GRE ® revised General Test Math Conventions Learn more about mathematical assumptions particular to the GRE ® revised General Test Important: Make sure you use only test prep materials for the GRE ® revised General Test Free Test Preparation Material for the GRE ® revised General Test Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . The Official Guide to the GRE ® revised General Test Includes a full - length practice test, explanations for many answers and sample Analytical Writing topics and responses with reader commentary Includes POWERPREP ® II CD - ROM ScoreItNow! GRE revised General Test Web - based service intended to help test takers prepare for the Analytical Writing measure of the GRE revised General Test Users receive immediate scores on the essay responses they submit online Additional Test Preparation for the GRE ® revised General Test Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . General strategies for the Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning sections Take advantage of the free test preparation materials when preparing for the revised test If you are taking the computer - based test, you should become familiar with the Help section provided in the free POWERPREP ® II software before you take the actual test You may review the Help section at any time during the actual test, but this reduces the amount of time you have available to answer the test questions Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . General strategies for the Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning sections (continued) Work as rapidly as you can without being careless Since no question carries greater weight than any other, do not waste time pondering individual questions you find extremely difficult or unfamiliar Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . General strategies for the Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning sections ( continued) You may find the following strategy advantageous: Go through a section the first time quite rapidly, stopping only to answer those questions you can answer with certainty, and marking those that require more thought Next, go back and spend time answering the questions marked for further review Finally, if there is time, go back and answer the questions that seemed to be the most difficult To maximize scores, it is better to guess at an answer than not to respond at all Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . General strategies for the Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning sections ( continued) The review screen on the computer - based test is intended to help you keep track of their progress on the test. Do not spend too much time on the review screen, as this will take away from the time you spend on the test questions Most of the questions in the Quantitative Reasoning sections don't require difficult computations Some questions can be answered more quickly by reasoning and estimating than by using the calculator Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . General strategies for the Analytical Writing section Be attentive to time, but do not rush Organize your thoughts and prepare outlines for the two essays Save a few minutes at the end of each timed section to check for obvious errors Although an occasional typographical, spelling or grammatical error will not affect your score, severe and persistent errors will detract from the overall effectiveness of the writing and lower your score Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . All GRE revised General Test Examinees receive: Four FREE ETS ® Personal Potential Index (ETS ® PPI) Evaluation Reports This tool lets you show institutions more about your potential in six core personal attributes that matter to them such as communication skills and teamwork You can have evaluators provide ratings and feedback on your success in these areas and send it to institutions as part of your application FREE listing through GRE ® Search Service You can list a free profile to help institutions find you more easily If you match the recruitment profile of a participating institution, you may be sent information about graduate programs, admission requirements, financial aid opportunities and fellowships Taking the GRE ® revised General Test gives you added value Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Sign up for test - taker news about the GRE ® revised General Test at: For more information, visit: To access test prep material, visit: To register, visit: You can also visit our new GRE page on Facebook ® to ask questions and interact with other test takers worldwide: Take the one test that can help you go to graduate or business school Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . For graduate school. For business school. For your future. More opportunities for success with the GRE ® revised General Test. Get started today. Thank you! Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Appendix Scoring the Analytical Writing Section Structure of Paper - Based GRE ® revised General Test Sample questions Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Scoring the Analytical Writing Section Each or your essays receives a score from two readers using a six - point holistic scale In holistic scoring, readers are trained to assign scores based on the overall quality of an essay in response to the assigned task If the two scores on an essay differ by more than one point on the scale, the discrepancy is adjudicated by a third GRE reader Otherwise, the two scores on each essay are averaged The final scores on the two essays are then averaged and rounded up to the nearest half - point interval A single score is reported for the Analytical Writing measure Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Structure of the paper - based GRE ® revised General Test Section Number of Questions Time Analytical Writing (2 sections) 30 min. 30 min. Verbal Reasoning (2 sections) Approximately 25 questions per section 35 min. per section Quantitative Reasoning (2 sections) Approximately 25 questions per section 40 min. per section Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Verbal Reasoning: Reading Comprehension Multiple Choice Select One Answer Choice Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Verbal Reasoning: Reading Comprehension Multiple Choice Select One Answer Choice (continued) Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Verbal Reasoning: Reading Comprehension Multiple Choice Select One or More Answer Choices Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Verbal Reasoning: Reading Comprehension Multiple Choice Select One or More Answer Choices (continued) Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Verbal Reasoning: Reading Comprehension Select in Passage Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Verbal Reasoning: Reading Comprehension Select in Passage (continued) Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Verbal Reasoning: Text Completion Question Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Verbal Reasoning: Text Completion Question (continued) Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Verbal Reasoning: Sentence Equivalence Question Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Verbal Reasoning: Sentence Equivalence Question (continued) Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Quantitative Reasoning: Multiple Choice, Select One Answer Choice Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Quantitative Reasoning: Multiple Choice, Select One Answer Choice (continued) Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Quantitative Reasoning: Multiple Choice, Select One or More Answer Choices Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Quantitative Reasoning: Multiple Choice, Select One or More Answer Choices (continued) X X X X Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Quantitative Reasoning: Quantitative Comparison Question Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Quantitative Reasoning: Quantitative Comparison Question (continued) Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Quantitative Reasoning: Numeric Entry Question Quantitative Reasoning: Numeric Entry Question Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Quantitative Reasoning: Numeric Entry Question (continued) Quantitative Reasoning: Numeric Entry Question 33 Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Quantitative Reasoning: Data Interpretation Question Quantitative Reasoning: Data Interpretation Question Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Quantitative Reasoning: Data Interpretation Question (continued) Quantitative Reasoning: Data Interpretation Question Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Analytical Writing: Analyze an Issue Task people rely more and more on technology to solve problems, the ability of humans to think for themselves will surely deteriorate Discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the statement above and explain your reasoning for the position you take. In developing and supporting your position, you should consider ways in which the statement might or might not hold true and explain how those considerations shape your position. Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved . Analytical Writing: Analyze an Argument Task (swimming, boating, and fishing) among their favorite recreational activities. The Mason River flowing through the city is rarely used for these pursuits, however, and the city park department devotes little of its budget to maintaining riverside recreational facilities. For years there have been complaints from residents about the quality of the river's water and the river's smell. In response, the state has recently announced plans to clean up Mason River. Use of the river for water sports is, therefore, sure to increase. The city government should for that reason devote more money in this Write a response in which you examine the stated and/or unstated assumptions of the argument. Be sure to explain how the argument depends on these assumptions and what the implications are if the assumptions prove unwarranted. Confidential and Proprietary. Copyright © 2011 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved .