#http://www.memphis.edu/budget/faq.php
Frequently Asked Questions - Financial Planning - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Financial Planning Staff Directory University Budget Information FAQs Links Home Financial Planning Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions General Budget Whom should I contact about my budget accounts? What is my base budget? How do I know if I should make my budget revision to the current or the base budget? How do I know which budget revision form to use? Which budget revisions have to be on paper? How do I prepare revenue budget revisions? When do I submit a carryforward budget revision? Finance I don't have access to Banner Finance. What do I need to do? I created several Banner Finance online budget revisions. How can I tell if the revisions have been approved? I'm trying to modify a budget revision, but the system will not allow me to make changes. What does the rule class code mean in Banner Finance? Can I transfer funds from a grant account to an E&amp;G departmental account? Can I transfer funds from an auxiliary account to an E&amp;G departmental account? HR &amp; Positions How do I know what type of position I need? How do I obtain a new position number? I am requesting a new position in workForum. What documents do I need to attach for Financial Planning? How do I go about creating those documents? How do I fill out an FP-02: New Position Detail form for a single position? How do I fill out an NBAPBUD - Position Budget Revision form for a new position? How do I fill out an NBAPBUD - Position Budget Revision form deleting a position? How do I fill out an NBAPBUD - Position Budget Revision to adjust a position's budget? General Budget Whom should I contact about my budget accounts? If your accounts are Indexes 2, 3 or 4 call Financial Planning at 901-678-2117 or e-mail budget@memphis.edu . If your Index is a 5, call Grants and Contracts at 901-678-3825 or e-mail grants@memphis.edu . If your Index begins with a 7, call Accounting Office at 901-678-2271 or e-mail accounting@memphis.edu . What is my base budget? Base budget is a calculation of Adopted Budget + Plus Budget Adjustments - Less Temporary Budget = Equals Base budget. You may review this document for example of SSB calculation and ePrint reports with Base. How do I know if I should make my budget revision to the current or the base budget? One-time changes should be made to the current budget using BD04 Temporary Request for Budget Adjustment. Charges that will be recurring yearly or monthly are permanent changes and should be made to the base budget using BD02 Permanent Request for Budget Adjustment. How do I know which budget revision form to use? Base Position changes should be completed on a NBAPBUD Position HR budget revision form. Current Year Position changes should be completed on Finance Current Year Position Budget Transfer form. All other account codes require a Banner-Finance budget revision form. Which budget revisions have to be on paper? All permanent base change budget revisions must be submitted on paper, along with all revenue, regular pay positions, carryforward, and transfers between funds. You may review this document for more information and examples. How do I prepare revenue budget revisions? All revenue budget revisions must be submitted on paper. If possible round revenue budget amount(s) to nearest 100s. TBR budget reporting requires explanations for all revenue changes. You may review this document for examples. Report FYBR001, Revenue Budget Estimate / Worksheet by Organization is available in Banner Finance ePrint. When do I submit a carryforward budget revision? In September, after the Accounting Office has completed Year-End. You may review this document for more information and an example. Finance I don't have access to Banner Finance. What do I need to do? Complete the request for access form to obtain access to Banner Finance and Banner Human Resources. Next, go to the Banner Finance Program Guide or the Banner HR Program Guide and register for training. Program Guides are also available from within the myMemphis Portal, which is where you access Banner services. I created several Banner Finance online budget revisions. How can I tell if the revisions have been approved? To obtain a listing of current year budget revisions that you have created, access Self Service Banner Finance, View Document, select document type from the drop down menu. Then, click on Document Number this will have your name and you can run a query. The list of Documents that are pending will be on your screen and you can click on a document number to look at the document or the history. Or enter the document number into the space provided and at the bottom of the screen click on History to see who approved and who needs to approve the document. I'm trying to modify a budget revision, but the system will not allow me to make changes. Once Banner Finance has given a Document Number you cannot make any changes to the document. What does Rule Class Code mean in Banner Finance? Finance rule class codes are packets of posting instructions to control the processing of transactions. The four character Rule Class Codes are delivered baseline. The three character Rule Class Codes are UoM created. You may review this document for instruction on how to view Rule Class Code Title using the Finance Program Guide or Banner INB Screen FTMRUCL. Can I transfer funds from a Grant account to an E&amp;G departmental account? No, grant accounts are restricted and E&amp;G departmental are unrestricted. Financial Reporting does not allow movement of budget between restricted and unrestricted. Can I transfer funds from an Auxiliary account to an E&amp;G departmental account? No, Financial Reporting does not allow movement of budget between auxiliary and unrestricted. HR &amp; Positions How do I know what type of position I need? There are several considerations to determine the type of position number required for a particular employee(s). All of the following must be determined before a position number can be set up: Do I need a single position or a pooled group position? First, determine if the employee will be a permanent or a temporary employee. If the employee will be a permanent employee, then a Single position is needed. If the employee will be temporary, then a Pooled position is needed. Single Position: If a Single position is needed, how will the position be funded? This will determine the Budget Profile. If the position will be funded with Maintenance of Effort funds (fund 127041), then a position with the Budget Profile MOE is required. MOE position numbers begin with “M.” If the position will be funded with State Non-Recurring funds (fund 127042), then a position with the Budget Profile NONREC is required. NONREC position numbers begin with “N.” If the position will be funded in the current fiscal year only, then a position with the Budget Profile LIMITED is required. LIMITED positions numbers begin with “L.” If the position will be funded in the base and is not a grant funded position, then the Budget Profile will be EDUGEN. (Note: Grant funded positions should be requested through the Grants Accounting office.) What classification is needed for the position? This will help determine the account code needed. There are currently five classifications of full and part-time positions: 611: Administrative Salaries 612: Faculty and Academic Salaries 613: Support and Clerical Salaries 616: Professional Support Salaries 614: Student Salaries and Wages These three digit codes precede all salary account codes within the particular classification. There are seven salary account codes used for Single, Regular positions: 61110: Administrative 61210: Academic Faculty 61310: Support and Clerical Salaries (biweekly) 61312: Monthly Support Clerical 61610: Professional Support 61630: Coaches 61635: Assistant Coaches No single, regular positions are created within the 614 Student Salaries and Wages classification. What employee class (E-Class) is needed for the position? The following is a list of the most commonly used E-Classes for Single, Regular positions: AD: Administrative Professional AE: Administrative Executive CH: Coaches CL: Clerical/Support Staff (Biweekly) F9: 9/10 Month Faculty FA: Faculty 12 Month FD: Post Doctoral S8: Support Staff 8 Hour (Biweekly) Is the position a full-time or part-time position? If the position is part-time, then what percentage will be worked (i.e. 80%, 50%,etc.)? Pooled Position: If a Pooled position is needed, what is the function of the employee? This will help determine the classification and account code required. What classification is needed for the position? This will determine the account code needed. There are currently, five classifications of full and part-time positions: 611: Administrative Salaries 612: Faculty and Academic Salaries 613: Support and Clerical Salaries 616: Professional Support Salaries 614: Student Salaries and Wages These three digit codes precede all salary account codes within the particular classification . The following is a list of the most commonly used Pooled position account codes: 61252: Temporary Instructor Non Credit 61253: Temporary Instructor Credit 61256: Summer Credit Instruction 61257: Academic Graduate Assistants 61275: Academic Temporary/Post Retirement 61375: Support Clerical Temporary Employee 61410: Student Assistants Hourly 61415: Student Assistants Monthly 61657: Administrative Graduate Assistants 61675: Prof Support Temporary Employees What employee class (E-Class) is needed for the position? The following is a list of the most commonly used E-Classes for Pooled positions: GA: Graduate Assistant PF: Part Time Faculty PR: Post Retirement SM: Student Monthly ST: Student Hourly TH: Temporary Hourly Employees TS: Temporary Flat Rate Employees Do I need a new position, or does a position of the type I need already exist? Check NYBR002 for a list of filled and vacant positions in the applicable Org. Check the HR Program Guide’s Position Lookup utility for a list of positions in a particular index or org. Note: New single full time positions can only be set up during the budgeting process. Positions submitted in the October Budget may be filled January 1. Positions submitted in the spring may be filled July 1. How do I obtain a new position number? To obtain a single, regular position number, a workForum action must be submitted requesting a new position. New full time positions must be approved through the budget process before they can be advertised and filled. Please see this question for more information on the Financial Planning documentation needed for a workForum new position request. For information about workForum, please contact workforce@memphis.edu or call 901-678-3573 for assistance. To obtain a pooled position number, please fill out an FP-02: New Position Detail form. These forms can be found on the forms section of the Financial Planning Web site. The completed form may be sent as an e-mail attachment to budget@memphis.edu . To learn more about deciding the type of position needed, please see this question . Positions for grant accounts should still be requested through the Sponsored Programs office. I am requesting a new position in workForum. What documents do I need to attach for Financial Planning? How do I go about creating those documents? Financial Planning is one stage in the approval queue requesting any new position. The following documents need to be submitted for Financial Planning with any workForum action: An FP-02: New Position Detail form Please click here for detailed instructions. An NBAPBUD: Position Budget Revision (BD02) form funding the new position Please click here for detailed instructions. If a position will be deleted to fund, or offset the count for this new position, the following documents also need to be submitted: An NBAPBUD: Position Budget Revision (BD02) form deleting the position. Please click here for detailed instructions. If a position will be reduced to fund this new position, the following documents need to be submitted: An NBAPBUD: Position Budget Revision (BD02) form reducing the budget for the position. Please click here for detailed instructions. All of the above documents should be attached to the workForum action (as applicable) at the time the action is created. The documents will be signed electronically by the authorities in the approval queue. How do I fill out an FP-02: New Position Detail form for a Single position? Financial Planning requires the submission of an FP-02: New Position Detail form with all workForum actions requesting single positions. This form provides information needed to create the position in Banner. Please see this document for details on each field. Please see this document for a completed example. How do I fill out an NBAPBUD - Position Budget Revision form for a new position? Financial Planning requires the submission of an NBAPBUD - Position Budget Revision form with all workForum actions requesting new positions. This form provides information needed to create the position labor distribution in NBAPBUD, verify the funding source for the position, and process the transaction in Banner and Finance. Please see this document for details on providing the correct information needed on this form. Please see this document for a completed example. How do I fill out an NBAPBUD - Position Budget Revision form deleting a position? Financial Planning requires the submission of an NBAPBUD - Position Budget Revision form with all requests to delete a position. It is also required for any workForum action requesting a new position in which an existing position will be deleted to fund the new position. This form provides information needed to cancel the position in NBAPBUD and process the transaction in Banner and Finance. Please see this document for details on providing the correct information needed on this form. Please see this document for a completed example. How do I fill out an NBAPBUD - Position Budget Revision to adjust a position’s budget? Financial Planning requires the submission of an NBAPBUD - Position Budget Revision form with all requests to reduce the budget for a position. It is also required for any workForum action requesting a new position in which an existing position will have a reduction in budget to fund the new position. This form provides information needed to adjust the position budget in NBAPBUD and process the transaction in Banner and Finance. There is a minimum salary level to which each position can be reduced. Consult the Workforce Management Web site on Pay Bands to find the minimum salary prior to submitting a budget revision requesting a reduction. Please see this document for details on providing the correct information needed on this form. Please see this document for a completed example. Presentations &amp; Trainings Helpful guides from Financial Planning Finance Program Guide Your online resource for all things related to the Banner Finance system Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the U of M Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .