#http://www.memphis.edu/hypostyle/project/
Hypostyle Project - Hypostyle - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Karnak Great Hypostyle Hall Project About Hypostyle Meaning &amp; Function Reliefs &amp; Inscriptions The Project The Project Origins of the Project Early Recording and Restoration Endangered Monuments Epigraphy Home Hypostyle Project The Project The Origins of the Project The Karnak Hypostyle Hall Project of the University of Memphis, William J. Murnane, Founding Director (1945-2000) Although the University of Memphis' mission to Karnak only began in 1990, the roots of the Project go back decades earlier. From the early 1970s until his untimely death in 2000, Dr. William J. Murnane was the driving force behind the recording and study of the Great Hypostyle Hall. We dedicate this site and our ongoing work to our beloved colleague. Dr. William J. Murnane (1945-2000) Founding Director of the Karnak Hypostyle Hall Project Karnak temple's Great Hypostyle Hall has long captured the imagination of American Egyptologists, particularly those associated with the University of Chicago's Oriental Institute. In the 1930s, Keith C. Seele's groundbreaking study of the wall reliefs in this colossal edifice was the first major investigation of the Hall's decorative reliefs and inscriptions and what these could tell Egyptologists about the history of the early Nineteenth Dynasty. In the 1970s, the Epigraphic Survey or "Chicago House" as it is better known, copied the war scenes of Seti I on the north exterior wall. The war scenes of Seti I were copied by the Epigraphic Survey of the University of Chicago in the 1970s. This definitive record is already invaluable since the reliefs have decayed rapidly since then. The "prehistory" of the University of Memphis' Karnak Hypostyle Hall Project stems from another Chicago scholar, Harold H. Nelson. His involvement with this grand edifice during his tenure as Director of the Oriental Institute's Epigraphic Survey at Luxor, better known as "Chicago House." Alone, and in his spare time, he made drawings of all the wall reliefs inside the Hall. Some of these appeared in an important article on Theban temple reliefs, but the lion's share of these drawings remained unpublished and unedited at his death in 1954. Ramesses II offering to Amen-Re. Harold Nelson's drawing of a scene from the Hypostyle Hall's west wall. It fell to William J. Murnane, longtime epigraphist on staff at Chicago House, to edit Nelson's drawings for their publication in 1981. Murnane was the logical choice for this project because it was directly related to his own research interest in the Hypostyle Hall in connection with his doctoral work on Egyptian royal coregencies, particularly that of Seti I and Ramesses II. The Karnak Hypostyle Hall was one of the most important focuses of study. Murnane was also Chicago House's senior epigraphist when the Epigraphic Survey's "official" work on the Hypostyle Hall began by recording of the war scenes of Seti I on the north exterior wall. The late William J. Murnane from his Chicago House days Despite universal gratitude among Egyptologists for Nelson's handy volume, his drawings are not facsimiles, but mere hand copies of limited epigraphic value. When the Epigraphic Survey's results were published in 1985, the battle reliefs of Seti I were almost the only reliefs in the Hypostyle Hall published in a definitive, scientific fashion. Since then, Vincent Rondot's exhaustive publication of the inscriptions on the architraves has appeared. Otherwise, publication of material from the Hypostyle Hall has been spotty at best; never comprehensive or definitive. Vincent Rondot's publication of the architraves from the Hypostyle Hall. The Project Origins of the Project Early Recording and Restoration Endangered Monuments Epigraphy Welcome to the Karnak Great Hypostyle Hall Project! In antiquity, Karnak was the largest religious sanctuary in Egypt's imperial capital of Thebes (modern Luxor) and was home to the god Amun-Re, king of the Egyptian pantheon. About the Architecture Who designed the Hypostyle Hall and why did they do it? Read about how Sety I and his architects built this magnificent structure between two pylon gateways which once served as the front entrance to Karnak Temple. Tour the Hall The Hypostyle Hall is thousands of miles away -- but you can tour entire structure without leaving your seat! Click here to begin a virtual tour of the historic Hypostyle Hall. Epigraphy Methods "Why don't you just take a photograph?" Why traditional photography is not the most scientifically reliable method of recording. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/7/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .