#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/getinvolved/outoftown/nashville.php
Nashville Club - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About Get Involved Academic Chapters Arts &amp; Sciences School of Law CEHHS Communication Sciences &amp; Disorders FCBE Engineering International MBA Journalism Kemmons Wilson School School of Nursing Masters of Public Administration Music Professional MBA University College Constituent Groups Band Frosh Camp Half Century Hispanic Alumni Lambuth Luther C. McClellan Memphis Pom UMAR Young Alumni Out of Town Atlanta Chicago Dallas Denver Houston Indianapolis Minneapolis Nashville New England New Orleans New York Orlando/Tampa San Francisco St. Louis Washington, DC Student Groups Future Alumni of Memphis Student Ambassador Board Scholarships Pouncer's Pals Home UMAA Get Involved Nashville Club Nashville Alumni Club 'Like' the Nashville Alumni Club on Facebook to stay up-to-date on all news and upcoming events! Recent Events Miami Beach Bowl Watch Party Nashville Alumni cheered on our Tigers to victory against the BYU Cougars on December 22! Tiger Basketball Watch Parties The Nashville Alumni Club has been meeting at the Embassy Suites Cool Springs in Franklin to cheer on their Memphis Tigers throughout the 2013-2014 basketball season! Thank you to everyone who came out to support! True Blue Pre-Game Party and Tiger Basketball Watch Party The Nashville Alumni Club joined fellow Tiger fans to mix and mingle at the Pre-Game Party and then cheered on our Memphis Tigers as they took on the Louisville Cardinals on January 9. True Blue Tailgate in Murfreesboro The Alumni Association and Nashville Alumni Club sponsored a tailgate our Tigers took on the MTSU Blue Raiders. Everyone enjoyed appearances by Mighty Sound of the South, Cheer, Pom and Pouncer. Nashville Alumni Club Golf Tournament and Tiger Tour The Nashville Alumni Club hosted at Golf Tournament, sponsored by Genesco, at the Gaylord Springs Golf Links in late April before the Nashville Tiger Tour that evening. Click here to view photos from the day. Tiger Basketball Watch Party Nashville area alumni met at The Crow's Nest in February to cheer on our Tigers against the Gonzaga Bulldogs. Football Pre-Game Tailgate The University of Memphis Alumni Association and the Nashville Alumni Club hosted a tailgate prior to the Memphis vs. MTSU game on Saturday, September 12, 2009. The tailgate was in the parking lot of the Tennessee Livestock Center. Thank you for coming out to support our Tigers! Nashville Golf Tournament The Nashville Alumni Club hosted their annual Nashville Tiger Golf Classic on Saturday, August 15, 2009 . The 4-person scramble was played at Gaylord Springs Golf Links and proceeds benefited the Nashville Alumni Club Scholarship. Over 100 golfers enjoyed the beautiful course, followed by a silent auction and summer picnic with more members of the Nashville Club. Click here to view photos from the event. Scholarship Opportunity Thank you to all Nashville-area students who applied for the University of Memphis Alumni Association Nashville Alumni Club’s book scholarship. The award will be given to an incoming freshman, accepted and enrolled at the University of Memphis for the Fall of 2010, who is from the Nashville Area (defined as Nashville City Limits and a 40-mile radius). Visit this site again soon for the award recipient! Get Involved! Watch this video by President Mike Dodd (JD '01), recorded at Vision Forum 2014, to learn more about the Nashville Alumni Club and how you can get involved! For more information or to get involved in the Nashville Alumni Club, contact Alumni Coordinator Kollin Falk at kjfalk@memphis.edu or 800-678-TRAX (8729). Chapter Leadership List President: Mike Dodd (JD '01), mdodd@taylorcos.com Vice President: Brent Clements (BU '00) Secretary: Catharine Humphrey (BBA '98) Treasurer: Jannelle Vincent (JD '88) Programming Chair: Marti Shelton (BSED ’98) Membership Chair: Lynda Ragsdale (BSd '03) Get Involved Academic Chapters Arts &amp; Sciences School of Law CEHHS Communication Sciences &amp; Disorders FCBE Engineering International MBA Journalism Kemmons Wilson School School of Nursing Masters of Public Administration Music Professional MBA University College Constituent Groups Band Frosh Camp Half Century Hispanic Alumni Lambuth Luther C. McClellan Memphis Pom UMAR Young Alumni Out of Town Atlanta Chicago Dallas Denver Houston Indianapolis Minneapolis Nashville New England New Orleans New York Orlando/Tampa San Francisco St. Louis Washington, DC Student Groups Future Alumni of Memphis Student Ambassador Board Scholarships Pouncer's Pals Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .