#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/econ/2015FECON4561410.pdf
Course Syllabus Economics after the Financial Crises of 2007 2015 Internet course: Econ 4561 Fall Semester, 2015 3.0 Credit Hours Instructor: John Komlos E - mail: John.Komlos@gmail.com Office Hours: As this is a fully online class, the standard means for communicating with the instructor is via course email throughout the semester. Course Overview : What happened? What caused the financial crisis of 2008 and the ensuing Great Recession that it precipitated? Is the crisis over? Where do world financial markets go from here? Did leading economists drop the ball? Is there historical precedent for what happened, o r have we begun a new This topical online course offers students a rich set of video, audio, text, and internet resources foundations of our global economy. In this course, Professor Ko mlos proposes a heterodox perspective that analyzes the fundamental flaws in conventional economic theory that some believe led to the crisis. The goal of this course is to discuss the 377 - year - history of financial crisis ending with the Great Meltdown of 2008. We will ascertain recurring historical patterns of financial bubbles, eltdown happened at a time when most macroeconomists (including Nobel Prize winning Bob Lucas and ey were obviously wrong. Why did they not see the tsunami coming? Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: There are no course pre - requisites to enrolling in this course. Required Texts (and Related Materials): See website for list of assignments Course Objectiv es: In addition to understanding historical developments, the course should help students approach contemporary problems and economic policy with an open mind and widen their economic perspectives. In brief, the historical evidence enables us to gain a mo re thorough understanding of the global economy in which we live and work. The primary aim of the course is not to concentrate on facts, theorems, or numbers but rather to see the BIG picture in an integrative and dual - disciplinary framework in a very long - run perspective. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with the ove rall learning objectives as a student in the BBA program : cbeassessment.net/LearningOutcomes/BBADegreeLearningOutcomes.pdf Course Methodology This is an online course and much of the learning will be self - managed and self - paced. style. Everything will be done fully online and asynchronously (meaning the class wil l not meet at specific times). Grading and Evaluation Criteria Final Course Grades Your course grade will be the average of your quiz grades Final course grades are earned according to the following table: Point Range Assigned Grade 90 - 100 Points A 80 - 89.9 Points B 70 - 79.9 Points C 60 - 69.9 Points D Under 60 Points F Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all official course correspondence at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not responsibility. Attendance: Since this is an online class taught asynchronously, there are no scheduled meeting times. Thus, formal attendance will not be taken. However, you are expected to stay active and engaged throughout the academic term and keep up with the schedule of activities. Your full engagement i n the class begins on the first day of the semester and should be maintained until the last assignment is submitted. For students receiving federal student loans, any lack of engagement in the course may be treated as non - attendance and potentially impact access to student loans in the future. Adding / Dropping: If you have questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to this page on the . Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Participation: To be successful in this course as a student, you must stay active and involved throughout the entire semester. Students are expected participate in all interactive aspects of the course. You should also check into the course frequently for announcements (usual ly on the course home page), You should plan on logging into the course at least three times each week. Classroom or Online Behavior: All participants in the course should be considerate of the other course participants and treat them (as well as their opi nions) with respect. The class will operate under the assumption that any and all feedback offered is positive in nature and that the intentions of the person(s) providing feedback are strictly honorable. Insensitivity in this area will not be tolerated. If you have any questions about online communication, you should review the Fogelman College's Netiquette website . Weeks 1 - 4. George Santayana Bubles recurring: The Tulip Mania of 1637, The South Sea Bubble of 1720, and the Mississippi Company Bubble of 1720. Watch: Watch Lectures and do the quizzes 1 - 4 Watch on PBS: The Ascent of Money Episode 1: From Bullion to Bubbles - ascent - of - money - episode - 1 - from - bullion - to - bubbles/44/ Week 5 Problems up to 1907 Listen to lecture and do quiz 5 Week 6. Capitalism on Trial: The Great Crash, Part 1 Watch: Watch Lecture and do quiz 6 Watch - Life: Watch : John K. Galbraith: http: // ed Extra : Hyman Minsky, The Financial Instability Hypothesis, Working Paper No. 74. The Levy Economics Institute of Bard College. Week 7. Capitalism on Trial: The New Deal Watch: Watch Lectures and do the quiz 7 Watch : 1929. The Great Crash (BBC 2009) BBC: What caused the Wall Street crash? m Milton Friedman, Free to Choose, Vol. 3, The Anatomy of a Crisis - 5329526746115377061# Week 8. Homo - Oeconomicus Blowing Bubbles: Economic Psychology Watch: Watch Lecture and do the quiz Watch : Watch : Daniel Kahneman, Explorations of the Mind - Intuition: The Marvels and the Flaws - details.aspx?showID=12301 Watch: Daniel Kahneman, Prospect Theory: http: // Watch : Daniel Kahneman on Well - being: - details.aspx?showID=12302 Week 9. Nobel Prize winning Yale economist Robert Shiller on the Financial Crisis Watch: Watch Lecture and do the quiz Read : Time Magazine, Feb. 15, 1999 The Three Marketeers Watch : Robert Shiller: Behavioral Finance. ated Watch : Simon Johnson on the oligarchs of Wall Street: . org/moyers/journal/02132009/watch.html Watch: Elizabeth Warren on Middle Class bankruptcies: - details.aspx?showID=12620 Watch : PBS Frontline: Inside the Meltdown: Week 10. Nobel Prize winning Columbian economist on the Financial Crisis, Part I Watch: Watch Lecture and do the quiz Watch : Alan Greenspan on the Credit Tsunami: 509979/greenspan - discusses - credit - tsunami.html Watch : Robert Shiller, The Subpr ime Solution - 3917039793515859476 Watch : Regulators fail: - SEC - multimedia/index.html Read : Joseph Stiglitz: America's Socialism for the Rich , The Economists' Voice , 6(6), 2009. Watch - Tv2GPs0 Week 11. Nobel Prize winning Columbian economist on the Financial Crisis, Part II Watch: Watch Lecture and do the quiz Watch : Jose ph Stiglitz receiving the Nobel Prize: Watch: Information Read: Simon Johnson, The quiet Coup, The Atlantic, May, 2009. - quiet - coup/7364/ Watch : PBS Frontline: Inside the Meltdown: p. 1 Week 12. The (Mis)pricing of Risk carrying dangers that, while now latent, are potentially lethal." Warren Buffett, Second richest man in America in 2002. Watch: Watch Lecture and do the quiz Watch: Brooksley Born on Frontline: The Warning gbh/pages/frontline/warning/view/ Watch: Nassim Taleb on Black Swan Watch : Joseph Stiglitz: Problems with GDP as an economic indicator: Read: sue 8, Article 5. Extra : Nouriel Roubini (Dr. Doom):