#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/Univ_college/child_dev.php
Child Development - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Child Development Child Development and Family Studies The Bachelor of Professional Studies in Child Development and Family Studies focuses on recognizing and enhancing important developmental milestones for children from birth through adolescence. Students will learn how to create effective learning environments to promote children’s healthy development as well as assist parents in creating positive relationships and environments for the development of their children. In addition, students study the stages of development from infancy through adolescence and the ways that family, culture, peers, and schools influence the growth of children. Students will also explore the importance of advocacy for children and their families whether it be in the classroom, hospital, or justice system. The B.P.S. in Child Development and Family Studies courses are designed to reflect professional standards set forth by the National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC). These standards are critical indicators of program quality. In addition to core courses based on early childhood development, these guidelines contain course work designed to develop skills and knowledge of the historical, social, cultural, and educational contexts of the field. This program DOES NOT lead to teacher licensure. Students interested in gaining a teaching license should contact the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences at 678-2728. Program Summary A. General Education (35-41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. Students who have completed one year of American History in high school are exempted from the six credit-hour History General Education Program requirement; otherwise, students will have to meet the History requirement. B. Coordinated Study (51 hours) I. Child Development and Family Studies Core (18 hours) EDPR 2111 Development Across the Life Span CDFS 2101 Family in Global Perspective EDPR 3302 Child and Adolescent Development OR PSYC 3103 Child Psychology CDFS 3401 Parent Child Relations CDFS 4220 Understanding Children: Behavior and Guidance ECED 4540 Infant &amp; Toddler Development* *University College students MUST be at Junior standing (60 credits or more) in order to enroll in College of Education courses. II. Family and Society (6 hours) ANTH 3511 Culture, Kin and Family PSYC 4034 Children's Social Relationships SOCI 3422 Racial and Ethnic Minorities: A Socio-Historical Approach SOCI 3432 Sociology of Gender SOCI 4442 Sociology of Poverty MRCH4300 Family Resource Management III. Counseling (3 hours) COMM 4341 Interpersonal Communication COUN 4611 Introduction to Counseling COUN 4621 Human Interactions COUN 4781 Strategies for Crisis Intervention COUN 4783 Alcohol and Drug Abuse Services IV. Historical Context (3 hours) ANTH 3282 Cultural History of American Communities HIST 3881 African-American History HIST 4831 History of American Family HIST 4851 History of Women in America HIST 4853 History of African-American Women HIST 4863 History of Childhood in America V. Social Services and Public Policy (6 hours) PADM 3601 Public Administration PADM 4226 Introduction to Nonprofit Organizations POLS 3213 Introduction to the Study of Public Policy SWRK 2911 Social Response to Human Need SWRK 3902 Human Behavior and Social Environment SWRK 4934 Child Welfare Policy and Services VI. Educational Context (9 hours) ART 3411 Art for Children CDFS 4101 Integrated Curriculum for Early Learners ECED 3555 * Observation and Assessment of Infant and Early Childhood Development EXSS 3306 Elementary School Health and Wellness SPED 2000 Issues of Human Diversity ENGL 3401 Children's Literature SOCI 3820 Sociology of Education CDFS 4223 Home, School and Community Engagement VII. Internship &amp; Field Experience (6 hours) UNIV 4110 Internship (3) UNIV 2110 Field Experience (3) C. Thematic Studies (6 hours) D. Senior Project (3 hours) UNIV 4995 Senior Project E. Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120 with a minimum of 42 upper-division hours. College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Course Descriptions Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/2/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .