#http://www.memphis.edu/procurement/purchasingcard/
Procurement and Contract Services - Procurement and Contract Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Procurement and Contract Services Staff Directory Contract Services Tigerbuy and Bids Purchasing Card Travel Services Purchasing Card Policies &amp; Forms University's Procurement and Contract Services Policy University's Purchasing Card Guideline Purchasing Cardholder Enrollment Form Agreement to Accept Visa Purchasing Card Form Purchasing Cardholder Change Form Regions Purchasing Card Customer Dispute Form Home Procurement and Contract Services Purchasing Card Purchasing Card Program The University of Memphis Purchasing Card Program has been established to provide University employees with a convenient means to make legitimate business purchases and, at the same time, reduce the costs associated with initiating and paying for those purchases. Use of the Purchasing Card for small dollar purchases less than $5,000 consolidates paperwork and helps facilitate vendor payment. The VISA cards are issued by Regions Bank. Procurement and Contract Services is responsible for managing the Purchasing Card Program. For assistance, contact the Procurement Specialist at 901.678.3673. Cardholders are responsible for utilizing sound business decisions in making small-dollar purchases for University use, checking all transactions against supporting documentation to verify accuracy and propriety, and safeguarding the purchasing card and the associated account number in a secure location at all times. Card administrators are responsible for verifying that all charges against the cardholder's account are substantiated by supporting documentation, reallocation of charges are made to department FOAP/account codes, and the documentation is retained within the department for audit purposes. Card reviewers are responsible for the final independent review and approval of purchasing card statements and receipts; reviewing, signing, and dating the cardholder's monthly statements; and forwarding the statement and supporting documentation to the card administrator to retain for audit purposes. All purchases made with the purchasing card must be for official University business in accordance with University policies and procedures and must NEVER be used for personal purchases. The purchasing card cannot be used if the purchase requires a signed contract or agreement (See University's Contracts and Signatory Authority Policy). The University prohibits the use of the purchasing card with out-of-country vendors. Regions Bank transmits purchasing card statements to cardholders via a secure Internet site. Charges are accumulated monthly and charged to "default" FOAP (Fund, Org, Account, Program) account codes and data is transmitted to the Banner Financial System. If the purchasing card is lost, stolen, or damaged, cardholder must notify Regions' Bank immediately at 1.888.934.1087. Then, notify the Procurement Specialist as soon as possible. All documentation pertaining to purchasing card transactions shall be available for review and audit by Procurement and Contract Services, Internal Audit, State/Federal Audit and Legal Counsel. A cardholder who makes an unauthorized purchase or uses the purchasing card in an inappropriate manner will be subject to disciplinary action including possible termination of employment at the University and criminal prosecution. Purchasing Card Policies &amp; Forms University's Procurement and Contract Services Policy University's Purchasing Card Guideline Purchasing Cardholder Enrollment Form Agreement to Accept Visa Purchasing Card Form Purchasing Cardholder Change Form Regions Purchasing Card Customer Dispute Form Doing Business with the University of Memphis Information on how to do business with the U of M and our e-procurement and bidding system, Tigerbuy THEPI Tennessee Higher Education Purchasing Initiative Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/15/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .