#http://www.memphis.edu/wumr/onair/
On-Air - WUMR - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. WUMR About On-Air DJ Profiles News Supporters Underwriting CCFA Specialty Shows Anything Goes Beale Street Caravan Focus on the Arts Jazz 10 Countdown Jazz 20 Countdown Let's Talk Health New Urban Jazz Lounge Radio Deluxe Sportsdesk Spotlight 92 Home WUMR On-Air On-Air Schedule MONDAY 12 am - 7 am Jazz Jukebox with Jethro 7 am - 10 am Jazz Lover Morning Show with Keith Paul 10 am - 1 pm Jazz for Your Workday with Karly B. 1 pm - 3 pm Jazz for Your Workday with Roseanna Kenda 3 pm - 4 pm Radio Deluxe 4 pm - 6 pm Jazz for Your Ride Home with Anniece Robinson 6 pm - 9 pm After Dinner Jazz with Toya Mason 9 pm - 12 am Late Night Jazz with Joe Thompson TUESDAY 12 am - 7 am Jazz Jukebox with Jethro 7 am - 10 am Jazz Lover Morning Show with Malvin Massey, Jr. 10 am - 1 pm Jazz for Your Workday with Terrika Reliford 1 Universe (11:30 am) 1 pm - 3 pm Jazz for Your Workday with Gabriel Valdez 3 pm - 6 pm Jazz for Your Ride Home with Harrell C. Moore 6 pm - 9 pm After Dinner Jazz with Linda Reed 9 pm - 12 am Late Night Jazz with "Jazzamataz" Eric Harris WEDNESDAY 12 am - 7 am Jazz Jukebox with Jethro 7 am -10 am Jazz Lover Morning Show with Will Lang 10 am - 12:30 pm Jazz for Your Workday with Joshua Bolden 12:30 pm - 3 pm Jazz for Your Workday with Mitch Grisham 3 pm - 4 pm Jazz on the Side with Austin Belmer (Encore) 4 pm - 6 pm The Agenda with Christian Kirk 6 pm - 7 pm Beale Street Caravan 7 pm - 9 pm After Dinner Jazz with Stan Williams 9 pm - 12 am Late Night Jazz with Chatt Graham THURSDAY 12 am - 7 am Jazz Jukebox with Jethro 7 am -10 am Jazz Lover Morning Show with Malvin Massey, Jr. 10 am - 1 pm Jazz for Your Workday with Jethro Spotlight 92 (11:30 am) 1 pm - 3 pm Jazz for Your Workday with La-Dawntee' Green 3 pm - 5 pm Jazz for Your Ride Home with Tony Nichelsen 5 pm - 7 pm Jazz Spectrum with Mike Malvezzi 7 pm - 9 pm After Dinner Jazz with "Babalu" Clay Yager 9 pm - 12 am Late Night Jazz with "Babalu" Clay Yager FRIDAY 12 am - 7 am Jazz Jukebox with Jethro 7 am -10 am Jazz Lover Morning Show with Julia Griggs 10 am - 1 pm Jazz for Your Workday with Geneva Davis Memphis Music Revealed (11:30 am) Focus on the Arts (11:45 am) 1 pm - 3 pm Jazz for Your Workday with Alle Rose' 3 pm - 4 pm New Urban Jazz Lounge with Bob Baldwin 4 pm - 7 pm Jazz for Your Ride Home with Nia Williams &amp; Kantana Buchanan 7 pm - 9 pm Relaxin' Jazz Weekend with Ingrid Cook 9 pm - 12 am Jazz for Your Ride Home with Barry Ford SATURDAY 12 am - 6 am Jazz Jukebox with Jethro 6 am - 10 am Saturday Sunrise with Nisy Hoskins 10 am - 11 am Anything Goes with Lise Avery 11 am - 2 pm Jazz 20 Countdown with V. Michelle 2 am - 5 pm Gems in Jazz with Vee Barrett 5 pm - 9 pm Jazz Kaleidoscope with Royale Johnson 9 pm - 12 am The David Saks Show SUNDAY 12 am - 6 am Late Night Weekend with Jethro 6 am - 9 am Relaxin' Jazz Weekend with "Eye-O" Sherry Hardiman 9 am - 10 am Jazz on the Side with Austin Belmer 10 am - 2 pm Images of Jazz with "Le Pilot" Malvin Massey 2 am - 5 pm The Jazz Lounge with Jethro 5 pm - 8 pm Jazz and Moore with Steve More 8 pm - 10 pm Relaxin' Jazz Weekend with Doc Osgood 10 pm - 12 am The Jazz Life with Tony Specialty Shows Anything Goes Beale Street Caravan Focus on the Arts Jazz 10 Countdown Jazz 20 Countdown Let's Talk Health New Urban Jazz Lounge Radio Deluxe Sportsdesk Spotlight 92 Listen Now! Tune into U92 online 24/7! Make A Gift Listener Request Line (901) 678-4867 Contact WUMR U92 FM (901) 678-2560 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/15/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .