#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/ccfa/musc.php
MUSC Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning MUSC Courses MUSIC INDUSTRY (MUID) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: MUID 6260-69. Special Topics in Commercial Music. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in the online class listing. May be repeated with change of topics. MUID 6603 - Copyright/Music Publish (3) Detailed examination of intellectual property rights as they relate to the commercial music industry; examination of publishing and its role in the control and exploitation of the package of rights in music property; includes: publishing activities, performing rights organizations, catalog sales and acquisitions, publisher/songwriter relations, and royalty accounting; emphasis on practical applications. PREREQUISITE: MUID 2201 and permission of instructor. MUID 7408 - Independent Study (1-3) Individual research, under faculty supervision, on a selected topic in the business or technology of music. May be repeated when topic varies. MUID 7699 - Media Music Prod Prac (3) Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. MUID 7800 - Tech Applic In Music (3) Advanced instruction in current technology assisting the composer, teacher, and practical musician. MUID 8408 - Independent Study (1-3) Individual research, under faculty supervision, on a selected topic in the business or technology of music. May be repeated when topic varies. MUID 8800 - Tech Applic In Music (3) Advanced instruction in current technology assisting the composer, teacher, and practical musician. MUSIC THEORY AND COMPOSITION (MUTC) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: MUTC 6260-69. Special Topics in Theory and Composition. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in the online class listings. May be repeated with a change in topic. MUTC 7260-89–8260-89. Special Topics in Theory and Composition. (1-3). Selected topics in theory or composition. May be repeated with change of topics. MUTC 6260 - The Beethoven Symphonies (3) Detailed analysis of the nine Beethoven symphonies. MUTC 6501 - Composition (3) Composition in varied forms for large and small ensembles and solo instruments; analysis of contemporary works and practical application of techniques. May be repeated for additional credit. NOTE: Composition is taught as applied music. Students receive the equivalent of one hour lesson per week. The additional fee for this instruction is $250.00 per semester. MUTC 7010 - Adv Improv Pract/Mat (3) Advanced improvisational techniques, including motivic development, pan-diatonic, panchromatic, and free improvisation; practices involving pentatonic, quartal, cluster, and polychordal compositions; survey and analysis of published improvisation teaching materials. PREREQUISITE: Two semesters (or equivalent) of undergraduate improvisation, and permission of instructor. MUTC 7101 - Pedagogy Of Theory (3) A practical course in classroom procedure; demonstrations by students and instructor in teaching the rudiments, elementary and advanced theory, various styles of counterpoint, and ear training; various theoretical systems; bibliography. MUTC 7104 - Analytic Studies Jazz (3) Directed study in selected areas of jazz historical styles; transcription and analysis of selected recordings and scores from specific jazz and popular styles; critical aural study of stylistic interpretation of major jazz big bands and combos of selected style periods. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MUTC 7201 - Theory I (3) Analysis of style features of the music of the eleventh century through the Baroque period. MUTC 7202 - Theory II (3) Analysis of style features of the music of the late 18th and 19th centuries. MUTC 7203 - Independent Study (1-3) Individual research, under faculty supervision, on a selected topic in music theory. May be repeated when topic varies. MUTC 7205 - Theory III (3) Analysis of style features of music since 1900. MUTC 7262 - History of Music Theory (3) Selected topics in theory or composition. May be repeated with change of topics. MUTC 7501 - Composition (2-6) Free composition in all forms. Applicants to this course are required to submit original works in various forms and media as proof of maturity and technical preparation for graduate work. The course may be repeated with the instructor's permission for successive semesters. NOTE: Composition is taught as applied music. Students receive the equivalent of two half-hour lessons per week. The additional fee for this instruction is $250.00 per semester. MUTC 7502 - Elec Cmpstnl Techniques (3) Emphasis on tape manipulation, synthesizer operation, and recording techniques in association with individual compositional projects. May be repeated for credit with permission of instructor. The additional fee for this instruction is $250.00 per semester. MUTC 7599 - Composition Practicum (3-6) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. MUTC 7801 - Analyt Techniques I (3) Techniques of analysis of styles and structure of music focusing on the Middle Ages/Renaissance and tonal periods through the nineteenth century; modal analysis, hexachordal concepts, use of LaRue techniques, introduction to Schenkerian principles, and the rhythmic theories of Lester. MUTC 7802 - Analyt Techniques II (3) A continuation of Analytic Techniques I, including a more detailed look at Schenkerian techniques of analysis; extension of Schenker principles through Schacter, Salzer, and others; principles of atonal analysis using Forte set theory, historical theories from Hindemith, Messiaen, and others. MUTC 7996 - Thesis (1-3) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. MUTC 8101 - Pedagogy Of Theory (3) A practical course in classroom procedure; demonstrations by students and instructor in teaching the rudiments, elementary and advanced theory, various styles of counterpoint, and ear training; various theoretical systems; bibliography. MUTC 8201 - Theory I (3) Analysis of style features of the music of the eleventh century through the Baroque period. MUTC 8202 - Theory II (3) Analysis of style features of the music of the late 18th and 19th centuries. MUTC 8203 - Independent Study (1-3) Individual research, under faculty supervision, on a selected topic in music theory. May be repeated when topic varies. MUTC 8205 - Theory III (3) Analysis of style features of music since 1900. MUTC 8262 - History of Music Theory (3) Selected topics in theory or composition. May be repeated with change of topics. MUTC 8501 - Composition (2-6) Free composition in all forms. Applicants to this course are required to submit original works in various forms and media as proof of maturity and technical preparation for graduate work. The course may be repeated with the instructor's permission for successive semesters. NOTE: Composition is taught as applied music. Students receive the equivalent of two half-hour lessons per week. The additional fee for this instruction is $250.00 per semester. MUTC 8502 - Elec Cmpstnl Techniques (3) Emphasis on tape manipulation, synthesizer operation, and recording techniques in association with individual compositional projects. May be repeated for credit with permission of instructor. The additional fee for this instruction is $250.00 per semester. MUTC 8599 - Composition Practicum (3-6) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. MUTC 8801 - Analyt Techniques I (3) Techniques of analysis of styles and structure of music focusing on the Middle Ages/Renaissance and tonal periods through the nineteenth century; modal analysis, hexachordal concepts, use of LaRue techniques, introduction to Schenkerian principles, and the rhythmic theories of Lester. MUTC 8802 - Analyt Techniques II (3) A continuation of Analytic Techniques I, including a more detailed look at Schenkerian techniques of analysis; extension of Schenker principles through Schacter, Salzer, and others; principles of atonal analysis using Forte set theory, historical theories from Hindemith, Messiaen, and others. MUTC 9000 - Dissertation (1-9) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. MUSIC HISTORY AND LITERATURE (MUHL) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: MUHL6260-69. Special Topics in Music History. (1-3). Selected topics in Music History. May be repeated with change in topic. MUHL 7260-69–8260-69. Special Topics in Music History. (1-3). Selected topics in Music History. May be repeated with change of topic. MUHL 6002 - Song Repertory I (2) Survey of solo literature from German and Italian schools of song. Offered even-numnbered fall semesters. MUHL 6003 - Song Repertory II (2) Survey of solo literature from the French, British, and American schools of song. Offered off-numbered spring semesters. MUHL 6005 - Histry/Literature Organ (3) Literature for the organ and its effect on and interaction with organ design. MUHL 6008 - The Symphony (3) A survey of the development of the symphony from the eighteenth century to the present with a focus on important composers and works, including discussion of orchestration and form, aesthetics, and performance practice. MUHL 6009 - Choral Literature I (3) Survey of choral repertories from Gregorian chant to 1700; contemporary performance practices; techniques of performing early choral music with modern mixed choirs. MUHL 6010 - Choral Literature II (3) Survey of choral repertories from 1700 to the present; contemporary performance practices; problems of modern performance. MUHL 6011 - String Quart Literature (3) History of the string quartet; survey of its music from Haydn to the present; problems of performance. MUHL 6013 - Women And Music (3) An investigation of the roles women have played throughout the history of Western art music, and the music they have composed, performed, and inspired. MUHL 6014 - Chamber Music/Piano (3) Study of the development of works for piano and one other instrument, including piano trios, piano quartets, and piano quintets; stylistic analyses of works from classic, romantic, and twentieth-century repertory. Offered fall semester. MUHL 6015 - Guitar Literature (3) Exploration of selected literature and overview of history of the guitar from 16th century to present; reading of lute tablatures. Offered odd-numbered fall semesters. MUHL 6016 - Jazz Vocal Styles (3) Survey of jazz vocal styles from the 1920's through the present, incorporating llistening, lecture, and analysis. Recorded works by important figures from each style and period will be studied. MUHL 6020 - Solo Brass Literature (3) Examination of the solo literature for brass instruments from the seventeenth century to the present. Offered odd-numbered spring semesters. MUHL 6021 - Amer Amateur Brass Band (3) History and circumstances of the American amateur brass band movement in the 19th and early 20th centuries; practical exploration of its musical repertory. PREREQUISITE: MUHL 3302 or permission of instructor. MUHL 6022 - Early Chamber Music (3) Survey of chamber music for strings, winds, and keyboards before 1700; course designed around needs of practicing instrumentalists. MUHL 6030 - Percussion Repertory (3) Survey of available literature for percussion instruments. Offered odd-numbered spring semesters. MUHL 6407 - History of Opera (3) The history of opera from its origins to the present. MUHL 6500 - String Repertory (3) Histories, tests, methods, periodicals, orchestral studies, and solo and ensemble literature. MUHL 6800 - World Musical Styles (3) Introduction to the study of ethnomusicology; taditional and popular musical styles and the role of music in societies throughout the world. Offered fall semester. MUHL 6801 - Amercn Folk/Poplr Music (3) Folk and popular elements in American music; role of mass media in folk and popular music; historical development and interrelationships of various musical styles ranging from 19th century minstrelsy through rock and roll and hip-hop; emphasis on southern Anglo-American and Afro-American folk and popular musical styles. Offered fall semester. MUHL 6804 - Blues (3) Stylistic development of blues music from its beginnings; relationships to African-American and American culture and history. (Offered spring semester.) MUHL 6805 - History Of Rock & Roll (3) Stylistic origins and development of rock and roll music from its beginning to the present. MUHL 6806 - History Of Jazz (3) Stylistic origins and development of jazz; interaction of jazz and Western classical music styles. MUHL 6807 - Memphis Music (3) Distinctive forms of folk and popular music in Memphis since the beginning of the 20th century; relationships to history, culture, and social patterns of the city and mid-south region; folk music background; blues, jazz, country music, gospel music, soul music, and rock and roll emphasized. Offered spring semester. MUHL 7003 - Piano Repertory (3) Survey of stringed keyboard repertory from Bach and his contemporaries to the present; representative works analyzed in regard to historical, stylistic, formal, and aesthetic features. (Offered fall semester.) MUHL 7262 - Reading and Writing Musicology (3) Selected topics in Music History. May be repeated with change of topic. MUHL 7400 - Biblio & Rsrch Methods (3) Survey of the fields of historical and systematic investigation in music with bibliographical studies and research analysis. MUHL 7401 - Medieval Music (3) History of Western music from the earliest notations to c 1400. MUHL 7402 - Renaissance Music (3) History of Western music in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. MUHL 7403 - Baroque Music (3) History of Western music in the seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries. MUHL 7404 - Classic Music (3) History of Western music from c 1730 to c 1825. MUHL 7405 - Music since 1900 (3) History of Western art music from 1900 to the present. MUHL 7406 - Nineteenth Cent Music (3) History of Western music in the nineteenth century. MUHL 7408 - Independent Study (1-3) Individual research, under faculty supervision, on a selected topic in musicology. May be repeated when the topic varies. MUHL 7409 - Rep For Collab Pianists (3) Studies in selected areas of the collaborative piano repertory. May be repeated when topic varies: PREREQUISITES: a repertory course pertinent to the topic, such as MUHl 6002, 6003, 6014 or permission of instructor. MUHL 7505 - Seminar Musicology (3) Seminars in selected areas of musicology. May be repeated when topic varies. MUHL 7506 - Composer Studies (3) Exploration of the life and works of a single composer or other musician. May be repeated for credit when the topic varies. MUHL 7507 - Advanced Studies in Art Song (3) Selected topics in the development and performance of the German Lied, the French melodie, and other art-song genres. May be repeated when topic varies. MUHL 7531 - Erly Musical Notation (3) Examination of history of Western musical notations from the ninth through seventeenth centuries; transcription of medieval music from its original sources into modern notation; singing and playing renaissance and early baroque music from facsimiles of original manuscripts and prints. MUHL 7551 - Performance Practice I (3) Historical techniques and conceptions of performance from Gregorian chant through the seventeenth century. MUHL 7552 - Performance Practice II (3) Historical techniques and conceptions of performance since 1700. MUHL 7800 - Fld Mthd In Ethnmsclgy (3) An exploration of techniques for designing field research subjects and gathering information in the field; special attention to techniques and problems related to the study of southern musical traditions. MUHL 7802 - Sem Ethnomusicology (3) Seminars in selected topics. May be repeated for credit when the topic varies. MUHL 7804 - Intnshp Sthrn Reg Music (3) Practical experience in the application of knowledge and skills learned through the study of southern regional music. The student will do supervised work in an area of music production, presentation, administration, or education for a public agency or in the private sector. This course may be repeated with a different type of internship, but only 3 credit hours may be applied toward any degree. PREREQUISITE: 18 credit hours in Ethnomusicology or Southern Regional Music. MUHL 7996 - Thesis (1-3) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. MUHL 8400 - Biblio & Rsrch Methods (3) Survey of the fields of historical and systematic investigation in music with bibliographical studies and research analysis. MUHL 8401 - Medieval Music (3) History of Western music from the earliest notations to c 1400. MUHL 8402 - Renaissance Music (3) History of Western music in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. MUHL 8403 - Baroque Music (3) History of Western music in the seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries. MUHL 8404 - Classic Music (3) History of Western music from c 1730 to c 1825. MUHL 8405 - Music since 1900 (3) History of Western art music from 1900 to the present. MUHL 8406 - Nineteenth Cent Music (3) History of Western music in the nineteenth century. MUHL 8408 - Independent Study (1-3) Individual research, under faculty supervision, on a selected topic in musicology. May be repeated when the topic varies. MUHL 8409 - Rep For Collab Pianists (3) Studies in selected areas of the collaborative piano repertory. May be repeated when topic varies: PREREQUISITES: a repertory course pertinent to the topic, such as MUHl 6002, 6003, 6014 or permission of instructor. MUHL 8505 - Seminar Musicology (3) Seminars in selected areas of musicology. May be repeated when topic varies. MUHL 8506 - Composer Studies (3) Exploration of the life and works of a single composer or other musician. May be repeated for credit when the topic varies. MUHL 8507 - Advanced Studies in Art Song (3) Selected topics in the development and performance of the German Lied, the French melodie, and other art-song genres. May be repeated when topic varies. MUHL 8531 - Erly Musical Notation (3) Examination of history of Western musical notations from the ninth through seventeenth centuries; transcription of medieval music from its original sources into modern notation; singing and playing renaissance and early baroque music from facsimiles of original manuscripts and prints. MUHL 8551 - Performance Practice I (3) Historical techniques and conceptions of performance from Gregorian chant through the seventeenth century. MUHL 8552 - Performance Practice II (3) Historical techniques and conceptions of performance since 1700. MUHL 8800 - Fld Mthd In Ethnmsclgy (3) An exploration of techniques for designing field research subjects and gathering information in the field; special attention to techniques and problems related to the study of southern musical traditions. MUHL 8801 - Ethnomusicology (3) A survey of concepts, problems, and methods of research in the interpretation of music in different social groups; emphasis on functional and popular music rather than art music, and on cultures other than Western European and North American. MUHL 8802 - Sem Ethnomusicology (3) Seminars in selected topics. May be repeated for credit when the topic varies. MUHL 8804 - Intnshp Sthrn Reg Music (3) Practical experience in the application of knowledge and skills learned through the study of southern regional music. The student will do supervised work in an area of music production, presentation, administration, or education for a public agency or in the private sector. This course may be repeated with a different type of internship, but only 3 credit hours may be applied toward any degree. PREREQUISITE: 18 credit hours in Ethnomusicology or Southern Regional Music. MUHL 8805 - Trnscrpt/Anly Etnmsclgy (3) An examination of the problems and methods of transcribing and analyzing non-Western and traditional music; the uses and limitations of staff notation; alternative descriptive systems. MUHL 8806 - Sem Southern Reg Music (3) Major issues in the study of southern folk and popular music; includes the relationship between Afro-American and Anglo-American styles and traditions, the relationships of these styles and traditions to African and European music, and the interplay of traditionalism and commercialism in southern music. PREREQUISITES: Completion of 18 graduate level credit hours in music, including MUHL 7400 and MUHL 6801. MUHL 9000 - Dissertation (1-9) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. SACRED MUSIC (MUSA) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: MUSA6260-69. Special Topics in Sacred Music. (1-3). Selected topics in Sacred Music. May be repeated with change of topic. MUSIC EDUCATION (MUSE) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: MUSE 6260-69. Special Topics in Music Education. (1-3). Selected topics in Music Education. May be repeated when topic changes. Training teachers for beginning through intermediate level piano instruction; establishing strong artistic, musical, and technical foundations; supervised practice teaching. (Offered fall semester.) PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MUSE 7260-79–8260-79. Special Topics in Music Education. (1-3). Selected topics in Music Education. May be repeated when topic changes. MUSE 6205 - Marching Band Technique (2) Organizing and conducting the marching band; gridiron charting and marching procedures with a study of precision drill, formation, and pageantry. (Offered spring semester.) PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MUSE 6208 - Band Literature (3) History and evolution of wind instruments and wind instrument playing and the history and development of the wind band and its literature, with general background material on the specific composers involved. MUSE 6209 - Piano Tuning/Repair (2) Basic techniques involved in piano tuning and adjustment. Some basic tools are required. MUSE 6211 - Vocal Diction I (2) Phonetic study of English and Italian languages in detail; introduction and basic rules of Latin pronounciation; includes International Phonetic Alphabet transcription of songs and arias. Open to collaborative pianists only or by permission of instructor. (Offered alternate years.) MUSE 6212 - Vocal Diction II (2) Phonetic study of German and French languages in detail; introduction and basic rules of Latin pronunciation; includes International Phonetic Alphabet transcription of songs, arias, and class recitations. Open to collaborative pianist only, or by permisson of the instructor. Offered alternate years. MUSE 6215 - Jazz Ensemble Technique (1) Knowledge of jazz phrasing, articulation; ensemble setting; repertoire selection; administration of school jazz program. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MUSE 6251 - Guitar Pedagogy (3) Analysis of various technical issues and remedies to overcome technical problems; analysis of methods by Sor, Carcassi, Aguado, Vila-Lobos, and Shearer; discussion of pedagogical articles. MUSE 6505 - Collab Piano Technique (2) Performance class involving practical study of instrumental and vocal standard repertory and problems of ensemble playing; encourages facility in sight-reading and the ability to assimilate music rapidly; score reading, transposition, and figured-bass realization are introduced as skills necessary to well-rounded musicianship. (Offered spring semester.) PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MUSE 6508 - Prin Of Suzuki Piano (3) Suzuki philosophy as applied to the development of the child's abilities and the role of the teacher and the parent; analysis of the technical and musical instruction of the beginning piano student. (Offered fall semester.) PREREQUISITE: Undergraduate upper-division piano proficiency. MUSE 6514 - Brass Pedagogy (3) Current literature, principles, methods, and psychology in brass playing and teaching. Offered even-numbered spring semesters. MUSE 6520 - Percussion Pedagogy (3) Basic principles of and materials for teaching percussion instruments. Offered even-numbered spring semesters. MUSE 6521 - Woodwind Pedagogy (3) Practical methods for teaching performance skills to woodwind students; current literature, principles, and methods in teaching woodwind instruments. MUSE 6802 - Level I Orff-Schulwerk (1-3) Basic Orff-Schulwerk techniques including body movement, soprano recorder, percussion, vocal performance, improvisation, and arranging. PREREQUISITE: Graduate standing in Music. MUSE 7002 - Teaching Music in Higher Edu (3) Problem and practices in the teaching of music in higher education. Topics will include tenure and promotion, syllbaus design, curriculum vitae construction, mock interviews, etc. MUSE 7101 - Jazz Program Admin (3) Basic administration of a college level jazz program; course and curriculum development/design, scheduling/planning, material acquisition, basic equipment needs, budgeting and budget administration, concert and festival planning/programming/production. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MUSE 7103 - Level II Orff-Schulwrk (1-3) (6803). Study of all the pentatonic scales, simple and moving borduns, I-V and I-IV-V accompaniments, explanation of rhythmic training; vocal, movement and instrumental improvisation; soprano and alto recorder. Prerequisite: MUSE 6802. MUSE 7104 - Level III Orff Schlwrk (1-3) (6804). Advanced Orff techniques including original compositions; explanation of pedagogic sequence; applications of pedagogy through micro teaching assignments; exploration of modes; improvisation in modality and harmony; study of soprano and alto recorder playing with occasional experiences on tenor and bass recorders. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 7103. MUSE 7202 - Music Early Childhood (3) Research and analysis of contemporary trends in the field of early childhood education, with emphasis on developing appropriate music activities for three to six year olds. MUSE 7203 - Choral Lit & Tech (3) Survey of choral literature from Dunstable to the present, using scores, records, and class performance; analysis of the scores in terms of style, form, and performance problems; techniques of teaching and conducting unfamiliar styles. MUSE 7204 - Inst Lit & Tech (3) Specific and intensive research in each student's major instrument, covering (1) history of the instrument; (2) tests, methods and periodicals; (3) orchestral studies; (4) solo and ensemble literature; and (5) listening and performance. MUSE 7207 - Measure Music Behavior (3) The investigation of evaluative tools in music education, formulation, and utilization of measurement devices in music teaching and research. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 7220-8220 MUSE 7210 - Proj Elem Mus Curr (3) Individualized in-depth study of a selected area in elementary school music education. Topics may include curriculum, program planning and development, evaluation of current practices, exploration of new or related fields. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MUSE 7211 - Proj Sced Mus Curr (3) Individualized in-depth study of a selected area in secondary school music education, vocal or instrumental; may include curriculum, program planning and development, evaluation of current practices, exploration of new or related fields. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MUSE 7213 - Orchtrtn Orff Instrm (3) An analysis of the elemental style of writing for Orff instruments including simple bordun, moving bordun; accompaniments including I-V, I-IV-V, I-II, I-VII, I-VI, I-III; original orchestrations in each harmony. Prerequisite: MUSE 7103 or permission of instructor. MUSE 7214 - Master Class Orff Schul (2) Advanced pedagogy based on Orff-Schulwerk principles, designed to train workshop clinicians; includes orchestration techniques, ontogenetic treatment of rhythm and melody, movement improvisation, and recorder playing. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 7104. MUSE 7216 - Class Piano Pedg Proj (1-3) Students, assigned to piano classes at the University and/or local secondary schools, will assist the principal teacher. May be repeated for a maximum of 3 credits when area of study varies. PREREQUISITES: MUSE 6511 or permission of instructor. MUSE 7217 - Adv Collab Tech (3) Individualized in-depth study of techniques and skills needed by professional collaborative pianists working with instrumentalists or singers. MUSE 7219 - Concepts/Teach/Learn (3) Active investigation and exploration of teaching and learning in music education to develop professional attitudes, work habits and responsibilities, determine personal values of effective teaching and learning, transfer historical and philosophical issues to contemporary practice, develop effective communication skills, review the professional research literature, and understand human development process from birth to adult. MUSE 7220 - Research Music Education (3) Active investigation and exploration of research methodologies specific to music education. MUSE 7221 - Music Spec Populations (3) Recognition and comprehension of various disabilities and exceptionalities; techniques for teaching music to exceptional students. MUSE 7222 - Rsrch Appl Music Education (3) Practical application of methodological techniques utilized in music education research; analysis and criticism of research techniques; design, implementation, and reporting of research data. PREREQUISITES: MUSE 7220, EDPR 7541. MUSE 7402 - Hist Phil Music Ed (3) An examination of the historical and philosophical foundations that underline the curricula and instructional programs in music. MUSE 7403 - Survey Research Mus Ed (3) Designed to acquaint students with theoretical and practical field research, to refine writing skills, to hypothesize, and to develop potential research problems. MUSE 7404 - Assessment in Music Classroom (3) Examination of aspects and types of assessment in the music classroom, with focus on assessment development and evaluation. MUSE 7503 - Intro Suzuki Piano (3) Suzuki philosophy as applied to the development of a child's abilities; particular emphasis on listening, parent-teacher relationship, tone production, posture, technique, and Suzuki Piano Volume I-A; includes observation of lessons and classes taught by experienced teachers in the University Suzuki Piano Program. PREREQUISITE: Audition or permission of instructor. MUSE 7504 - Suzuki Piano Lit/Tech I (3) Analysis of pedagogical materials and fundamental techniques introduced in Volumes I-III of Suzuki Piano School; emphasis on listening, tone production, independence, independence of hands, musical forms and styles, and musical expression; introduction of music reading, scales and cord progressions; observation of lessons and classes taught by experienced teachers in the University Suzuki Piano Program. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 7503 or permission of instructor. MUSE 7511 - Projects Piano Pedagogy (1-3) Individual projects designed to explore problems of teaching under supervision. May be repeated for a maximum of 3 credits when the topic varies. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. MUSE 7512 - Ped/Appl Voice Tchr (3) Prepares singers to handle the studio lesson with an emphasis on teaching all voice types; rudimentary knowledge of the physiology of singing will be learned; study of the historical approach to singing techniques and vocal methods; analyzing the tone and corrective exercises. MUSE 7513 - Piano Pedagogy I (3) Training teachers for beginning through intermediate level piano instruction; establishing strong artistic, musical, and technical foundation. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MUSE 7514 - Piano Pedagogy II (3) Training teachers for advanced piano instruction; extensive readings from renowned artist-teachers and performers, development of ideation and memorization skills; observations and supervised practice teaching. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 7513 or permission of instructor. MUSE 7515 - Class Piano Pedagogy (3) Survey of group instruction techniques in the teaching of beginning, intermediate, and early advanced piano, emphasizing observation and practical application; for keyboard majors and/or prospective piano teachers. MUSE 7516 - Adv Prob in Singing Diction (3) Intensive review of English, Italian, Latin, French, and German singing diction. Study of Spanish and Russian. Investigation of problems associated with vocal diction and the singing process. Physiology of diction, vowel modification, and retrogressive effect. Review of current texts and online resources. Pedagogy od diction. MUSE 7520 - Jazz Pedagogy (3) Issues and practical problems of running a jazz program at the post-secondary level. MUSE 7601 - Suzuki String Pedag I (3) Suzuki philosophy and method; educating Suzuki parents, setting up a program; teaching beginning steps in preparing students for the Twinkle variations and Suzuki Book I. MUSE 7602 - Suzuki String Pedag II (3) Analysis of pedagogical materials and fundamental techniques introduced in volumes I-IV of Suzuki Violin School; exploration of various reading methods, introduction of music theory concepts, two and three octave scales, two octave arpeggio series, and circle of keys. MUSE 7603 - Suzuki String Pedag III (3) Analysis of pedagogical materials and fundamental techniques introduced in volumes V-VI of Suzuki Violin School; two octave major and minor scales and arpeggios, all three octave major and minor arpeggios, and exploration of more advanced reading methods. MUSE 7604 - Suzuki String Pedag IV (3) Analysis of pedagogical materials and fundamental techniques introduced in volumes VII-VIII of Suzuki Violin School; all three octave major and minor scales in circle of keys, two octave chromatic scales, three octave arpeggio sets, all major and minor two octave doublestop scales. MUSE 7605 - Music Dev & Learning (3) Evaluates theories, methods of inquiry, and research designs of musical development from early childhood through adulthood; explores correlations between theories of general intellectual development and music cognition research. MUSE 7606 - Desc/Exp Research Music (3) Develop research concepts and models in quantitative research using experimental, quasi-experimental, and descriptive design models; determine relationships between independent and dependent variables through appropriate research procedures, analysis, and interpretation of findings. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 7220-8220 MUSE 7607 - Choral Rehearsal Tech (3) Introduction to elements essential to development of a successful choral rehearsal; includes basic ensemble singing techniques, how to unify sound, score study, style considerations, proper diction, rehearsal planning, and audition procedures. MUSE 7608 - Instr Ens Rehearsl Tech (3) Includes practical skills of baton technique, score reading, basic rehearsal techniques, and theoretical areas of score analysis, repertoire, and programming, as well as classroom management and pacing of materials; instructor will provide on-the-spot critiques of student teaching and conducting. MUSE 7609 - Choral Conduction Techn (3) Application of conducting techniques to communicate technical, gestural, and artistic perceptions of the music; score study, rehearsal techniques, musical interpretation through study of representative scores. MUSE 7702 - Instrum/Wind Conducting (3) Application of techniques studied in basic conducting to rehearsing and performing selected pieces; covers score study, planning, rehearsal techniques, and musical interpretation. MUSE 7801 - Independent Study (1-3) Individual research, under faculty supervision, on a selected topic in music education. May be repeated when topic varies. MUSE 7995 - Master's Project Music Ed (1-3) Preparation of a practical research project as a culmination to the MMU in Music Education. MUSE 7996 - Thesis (1-3) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. MUSE 7998 - Orff Practicum (1-3) Culminating project for degree in Orff-Schulwerk; consists of 3 videotaped lessons with children, based on appropriately detailed lesson plans that include singing, movement, playing instruments, and creativity. Videos will be reviewed by a committee of music education faculty. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. MUSE 8202 - Music Early Childhood (3) Research and analysis of contemporary trends in the field of early childhood education, with emphasis on developing appropriate music activities for three to six year olds. MUSE 8203 - Choral Lit & Tech (3) Survey of choral literature from Dunstable to the present, using scores, records, and class performance; analysis of the scores in terms of style, form, and performance problems; techniques of teaching and conducting unfamiliar styles. MUSE 8204 - Inst Lit & Tech (3) Specific and intensive research in each student's major instrument, covering (1) history of the instrument; (2) tests, methods and periodicals; (3) orchestral studies; (4) solo and ensemble literature; and (5) listening and performance. MUSE 8207 - Measure Music Behavior (3) The investigation of evaluative tools in music education, formulation, and utilization of measurement devices in music teaching and research. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 7220-8220 MUSE 8210 - Proj Elem Mus Curr (3) Individualized in-depth study of a selected area in elementary school music education. Topics may include curriculum, program planning and development, evaluation of current practices, exploration of new or related fields. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MUSE 8211 - Proj Sced Mus Curr (3) Individualized in-depth study of a selected area in secondary school music education, vocal or instrumental; may include curriculum, program planning and development, evaluation of current practices, exploration of new or related fields. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MUSE 8213 - Orchtrtn Orff Instrm (3) An analysis of the elemental style of writing for Orff instruments including simple bordun, moving bordun; accompaniments including I-V, I-IV-V, I-II, I-VII, I-VI, I-III; original orchestrations in each harmony. Prerequisite: MUSE 7103 or permission of instructor. MUSE 8217 - Adv Collab Tech (3) Individualized in-depth study of techniques and skills needed by professional collaborative pianists working with instrumentalists or singers. MUSE 8219 - Concepts/Teach/Learn (3) Active investigation and exploration of teaching and learning in music education to develop professional attitudes, work habits and responsibilities, determine personal values of effective teaching and learning, transfer historical and philosophical issues to contemporary practice, develop effective communication skills, review the professional research literature, and understand human development process from birth to adult. MUSE 8220 - Research Music Education (3) Active investigation and exploration of research methodologies specific to music education. MUSE 8221 - Music Spec Populations (3) Recognition and comprehension of various disabilities and exceptionalities; techniques for teaching music to exceptional students. MUSE 8222 - Rsrch Appl Music Education (3) Practical application of methodological techniques utilized in music education research; analysis and criticism of research techniques; design, implementation, and reporting of research data. PREREQUISITES: MUSE 7220, EDPR 7541. MUSE 8402 - Hist Phil Music Ed (3) An examination of the historical and philosophical foundations that underline the curricula and instructional programs in music. MUSE 8403 - Survey Research Mus Ed (3) Designed to acquaint students with theoretical and practical field research, to refine writing skills, to hypothesize, and to develop potential research problems. MUSE 8404 - Assessment in Music Classroom (3) Examination of aspects and types of assessment in the music classroom, with focus on assessment development and evaluation. MUSE 8506 - Ind Study Suzuki Teach (3) Independent study of a selected topic in relation to Suzuki philosophy and method. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 7510 or permission of the instructor. MUSE 8512 - Ped/Appl Voice Tchr (3) Prepares singers to handle the studio lesson with an emphasis on teaching all voice types; rudimentary knowledge of the physiology of singing will be learned; study of the historical approach to singing techniques and vocal methods; analyzing the tone and corrective exercises. MUSE 8516 - Adv Prob in Singing Diction (3) Intensive review of English, Italian, Latin, French, and German singing diction. Study of Spanish and Russian. Investigation of problems associated with vocal diction and the singing process. Physiology of diction, vowel modification, and retrogressive effect. Review of current texts and online resources. Pedagogy od diction. MUSE 8605 - Music Dev & Learning (3) Evaluates theories, methods of inquiry, and research designs of musical development from early childhood through adulthood; explores correlations between theories of general intellectual development and music cognition research. MUSE 8606 - Desc/Exp Research Music (3) Develop research concepts and models in quantitative research using experimental, quasi-experimental, and descriptive design models; determine relationships between independent and dependent variables through appropriate research procedures, analysis, and interpretation of findings. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 7220-8220 MUSE 8609 - Choral Conducting Techn (3) Application of conducting techniques to communicate technical, gestural, and artistic perceptions of the music; score study, rehearsal techniques, musical interpretation through study of representative scores. MUSE 8702 - Instrum/Wind Conducting (3) Application of techniques studied in basic conducting to rehearsing and performing selected pieces; covers score study, planning, rehearsal techniques, and musical interpretation. MUSE 8801 - Independent Study (1-3) Individual research, under faculty supervision, on a selected topic in music education. May be repeated when topic varies. MUSE 9000 - Dissertation (1-9) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. APPLIED MUSIC (MUAP) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: MUAP6260-69. Special Topics in Applied Music. (1-3). Selected topics in Applied Music. May be repeated with change of topics. MUAP 7260-89–8260-89. Special Topics in Applied Music. (1-3). Selected topics in Applied Music. May be repeated with change of topic. MUAP 6004 - Orchestral Excerpts (2) Study and performance of selected orchestral excerpts suitable for auditions. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MUAP 6263 - Reed Making (1) A laboratory course designed to help students become independent reed makers. May be repeated for credit. MUAP 6301 - Acting for Opera I (3) Essential acting techniques for singers, with special attention to application to operatic stage. MUAP 6302 - Acting for Opera II (3) Advanced acting techniques for singers, with special attention to application to operatic stage. PREREQUISITE: MUAP 6301 MUAP 7002 - Chamber Music (1) MUAP 7099 - Chamber Music Recital (1) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. MUAP 7101 - Wind Ensemble (1) MUAP 7102 - Orchestra (1) MUAP 7103 - University Singers (1) MUAP 7104 - Opera Chorus (1) MUAP 7106 - Symphonic Band (1) MUAP 7107 - Jazz Ensemble (1) MUAP 7108 - Opera Workshop (1) MUAP 7201 - Brass Ensemble (1) MUAP 7202 - Jazz Combo (1) MUAP 7203 - Chamber Music/Piano (1) MUAP 7204 - Percussion Ensemble (1) MUAP 7205 - Contmp Chamber Players (1) MUAP 7207 - String Ensemble (1) MUAP 7209 - Chamber Choir (1) MUAP 7210 - Opera Soloists (1) MUAP 7211 - Woodwind Ensemble (1) MUAP 7212 - Collegium Musicum (1) MUAP 7213 - Jazz Vocal Ensemble (1) MUAP 7620 - Ind Study Sym/Op Cond (3) Detailed study of advanced conducting techniques including styles, mechanics, score reading and preparation, and rehearsal techniques and organization; practical experience in orchestral and operatic conducting. May be repeated for credit. PREREQUISITES: MUAP 7701 and/or permission of instructor. MUAP 7622 - Opera Direction Project (1-3) Stage direction of an opera workshop or opera theatre production. May be repeated for up to 12 credit hours. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. MUAP 7623 - Opera Coaching Project (1-3) Supervised coaching of substantial portions of an opera workshop or opera theatre production. May be repeated for up to 12 credit hours. MUAP 7701 - Adv Conducting (3) Conducting the concert band, the symphony orchestra, and the chorus in the larger musical forms; emphasis on interpretation. May be repeated for credit. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. $250.00 instruction and lab fee. MUAP 7702 - Conducting Practicum (1-3) Supervised rehearsal and preparation of a public performance with a large ensemble. MUAP 7703 - Score Study/Aural Train (2) Skills of score reading, ear training, and score analysis for conductors. MUAP 7704 - Opera Stage Direction (1-3) Private lessons in the stage direction of operatic productions. May be repeated for up to 12 credit hours. MUAP 7705 - Opera Coaching (1-3) Private lessons in opera coaching. May be repeated for up to 12 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor MUAP 7800 - Internship/Music Perform (1-6) Music performances coordinated between the School of Music and Opera Memphis or the Memphis Symphony Orchestra. May be repeated. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. MUAP 7801 - Independent Study (1-3) Individual Research, under faculty supervision, on a selected topic in Applied Music. May be repeated when the topic varies. MUAP 7899 - Lecture Recital (1-3) Student must be concurrently enrolled in an appropriate applied music course. All policies relating to dissertations are applicable to lecture recitals. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. MUAP 7999 - Recital (1-3) Student must be concurrently enrolled in an appropriate applied music course. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. MUAP 8002 - Sem Performance Prob (3) Study of literature and material for the performances necessary to prepare for the qualifying examination. Preparation of the dissertation recitals. PREREQUISITE: Admission to curriculum in performance. May be repeated for credit. MUAP 8620 - Ind Study Sym/Op Cond (3) Detailed study of advanced conducting techniques including styles, mechanics, score reading and preparation, and rehearsal techniques and organization; practical experience in orchestral and operatic conducting. May be repeated for credit. PREREQUISITES: MUAP 7701 and/or permission of instructor. MUAP 8622 - Ind Proj Opera Direct (3) Actual staging or musical direction of an opera workshop or opera theatre production. May be repeated for credit. MUAP 8701 - Adv Conducting (3) Conducting the concert band, the symphony orchestra, and the chorus in the larger musical forms; emphasis on interpretation. May be repeated for credit. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. $250.00 instruction and lab fee. MUAP 8702 - Conducting Practicum (1-3) Supervised rehearsal and preparation of a public performance with a large ensemble. MUAP 8703 - Score Study/Aural Train (2) Skills of score reading, ear training, and score analysis for conductors. MUAP 8800 - Internship/Music Perform (1-6) Music performances coordinated between the School of Music and Opera Memphis or the Memphis Symphony Orchestra. May be repeated. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. MUAP 8801 - Independent Study (1-3) Individual Research, under faculty supervision, on a selected topic in Applied Music. May be repeated when the topic varies. MUAP 8999 - Recital (1-3) Student must be concurrently enrolled in an appropriate applied music course. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. MUAP 9000 - Doctoral Research Project (1-9) Preparation of the research document as part of the dissertation equivalent; may include a lecture recital. All policies relating to dissertations are applicable to the course. Continuous enrollment is required until degree is completed. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. INDIVIDUAL LESSONS FEES: Individual lessons require an additional applied music fee of $50 per semester for each weekly one-half hour lesson. This fee is not included in the Fee Schedule.. Fees are paid to the University at the office of the Business Manager. CREDITS AND GRADES: A full-hour lesson will be given all persons enrolled in graduate applied music, regardless of credit-hours awarded. Music Education majors, applied music minors, and applied music electives will be allowed to register for two hours of credit only. Applied majors may register for two to six hours of credit, as permitted. Grades are awarded in accordance with the jury system and have the same significance as in any other subject. All graduate applied music juries shall be scheduled for fifteen minutes. REGISTRATION: Students will register for individual lessons at the same time and the same manner that they register for other courses. Individual Lessons may be repeated for credit in subsequent semesters, but not for the purpose of improving the grade originally earned. Instrument (1-2 Hours Credit) (2-6 Hours Credit) Trumpet 6111 7111/8111 Horn 6121 7121/8121 Trombone 6131 7131/8131 Tuba 6141 7141/8141 Euphonium 6142 7142/8142 Piano 6311 7311/8311 Harpsichord 6321 7321/8321 Organ 6331 7331/8331 Percussion 6411 7411/8411 Ethnic Percussion 6414 Violin 6511 7511/8511 Viola 6521 7521/8521 Cello 6531 7531/8531 Bass 6541 7541/8541 Guitar 6551 7551/8551 Harp 6561 7561 Voice 6611 7611/8611 Flute 6711 7711/8811 Oboe 6721 7721/8721 Clarinet 6731 7731/8731 Saxophone 6741 7741/8741 Bassoon 6751 7751/8751 Recorder 6761 † Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .