#http://www.memphis.edu/hypostyle/welcome/
Welcome - Hypostyle - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Karnak Great Hypostyle Hall Project About Hypostyle Meaning &amp; Function Reliefs &amp; Inscriptions The Project Home Hypostyle welcome Welcome to the Great Hypostyle Hall of the Temple of Karnak In antiquity, Karnak was the largest religious sanctuary in Egypt's imperial capital of Thebes (modern Luxor) and was home to the god Amun-Re, king of the Egyptian pantheon. For over 2000 years, successive pharaohs rebuilt and expanded the temples of Karnak, making it the largest complex of religious monuments from the ancient world. View of the main axis of the Hypostyle Hall with its twelve large columns (left), and the smaller columns (right). At the heart of Karnak, the Nineteenth Dynasty pharaoh Sety I (reigned ca. 1291-1279 BCE) erected his Great Hypostyle Hall, a colossal forest of 134 giant sandstone columns supporting a high clerestory roof and enclosed by massive walls that after 3300 years remain substantially intact today. The Great Hall is vast. It covers an acre of land, and its great columns soar to heights of 20 meters. Not only does the scale and completeness of this monument remain a rarity among ancient Egyptian temples, but it is also the largest and most elaborately decorated of all such buildings in Egypt. Visitors often remark on the bewildering array of inscriptions covering every surface: the walls, columns, and even the roof! The patchwork of artistic styles and different royal names seen in these inscriptions and relief sculptures reflect the different stages at which they were carved over the centuries. Successive pharaohs, Roman emperors, high priests and common Egyptians added to its wealth of inscriptions and relief decoration, made architectural alterations and restorations, and even left pious graffiti on its walls. Sety I offering two flower bouquets. Relief from the north interior wall of the Hypostyle Hall. Sety I’s craftsmen embellished the walls and columns in the north half of the building with exquisite bas relief sculptures of the highest quality before the king’s death. Sety’s successor, the celebrated Pharaoh Ramesses II (reigned ca. 1279-1213 BCE), commanded his artisans to carve the walls and columns in its southern wing mostly in sunk relief in various phases over the course of his long reign. Ramesses II offering incense. Later rulers like Pharaoh Ramesses IV (ruled ca. 1151-1145 BCE) and the High Priest of Amun Herihor (ruled ca. 1080-1072 BCE), seeking to associate themselves with the Hall and its illustrious builders, inserted further decoration into spaces previously left blank or even superimposed over earlier inscriptions on the columns. Thereafter, the Great Hypostyle Hall remained in use for seventeen centuries, down to the end of paganism in Egypt during the fourth century of our era. Ramesses IV offering lettuce to Amun-Re. Constituting a monumental encyclopedia of Egyptian civilization, the Great Hypostyle Hall's reliefs and inscriptions attest to the richness and vitality of Egyptian civilization at the height of its imperial power during the last two centuries of the Egyptian New Kingdom (ca. 1300-1100 BCE). They document Egyptian religious beliefs, culture, political history, and foreign relations. Relief showing Sety I attacking the Syrian town of Kadesh. Relief from the north exterior wall of the Hypostyle Hall. The Egyptian and Hittite Empires during the reigns of Sety I and Ramesses II As Sety I and Ramesses II were constructing and inscribing the Great Hypostyle Hall, Egypt and the Hittite Empire—the two military superpowers of the 13 th Century BCE—were locked in a bitter, seven decades-long war for control of ancient Syria. Both kings left panoramic war scenes on the exterior walls of the Hypostyle Hall that commemorate the last stages of this conflict. Hostilities ended in the 21 st year of Ramesses II’s reign (ca. 1258 BCE) when he concluded the earliest known international peace treaty in human history with the Hittite Empire. Ramesses marked the event with a hieroglyphic copy of his treaty carved in stone on a wall just beyond the southern gate of the Hypostyle Hall. Karnak has long been one of the major sites for the millions of tourists who visit southern Egypt. Thousands pass through the Great Hypostyle Hall and the rest of Karnak on a daily basis, taking countless photos of its wonders. Yet even after two centuries of archaeological excavation and scientific study by Egyptian, French, and American Egyptologists, most of the Karnak complex remains scientifically undocumented today. As one of our Egyptian colleagues puts it, Karnak is an archaeological ocean, and we have barely dipped below its surface. The Hittite Peace Treaty stela of Ramesses II. This unfathomed sea of antiquities is most profound in the Great Hypostyle Hall, a majestic structure that overwhelms the viewer with a vast array of wall carvings and hieroglyphic inscriptions and whose sheer scale and complexity has largely defied scholarly efforts to record and study it. While this priceless trove of irreplaceable inscriptions has much to teach us about Ancient Egypt, Egyptologists have only ever scientifically recorded a fraction of them, their true significance being neither well-understood nor fully appreciated. Alarmingly, a combination of environmental and human-made factors have caused this vast repository of inscriptions to decay and even threatens to destroy the building altogether. Inscriptions and relief carvings have long suffered from infiltration of ground water, as mineral salts in the stone draw moisture upwards by capillary action, and this, in turn, forces the salts to crystallize on or beneath the surface, destroying the relief. The Karnak Great Hypostyle Hall Project The Karnak Hypostyle Hall Project team during our 2011 field season The Karnak Great Hypostyle Hall Project is a joint endeavor of the University of Memphis, in Memphis, Tennessee (U.S.A.), and the Université de Québec à Montréal (Canada). We work in cooperation with Egypt’s Supreme Council of Antiquities and the Centre Franco-égyptien d’études des temples de Karnak (France). Our project has three closely related aims: To make a complete scientific record of all the hieroglyphic texts and relief carvings from the Hypostyle Hall. To make these inscriptions widely available to scientists and the world- wide public through traditional publications and via digital technologies like the internet. To conduct scholarly research and analysis of the Hypostyle Hall to better understand those aspects of Egyptian civilization reflected in its inscriptions, including its history, religion, politics, society, and culture. Ramesses II offering cloth to Amun-Re Kamutef. Epigraphic drawing. For more information about our work, visit the links for Our Project and our Field Reports. Welcome to the Karnak Great Hypostyle Hall Project! In antiquity, Karnak was the largest religious sanctuary in Egypt's imperial capital of Thebes (modern Luxor) and was home to the god Amun-Re, king of the Egyptian pantheon. About the Architecture Who designed the Hypostyle Hall and why did they do it? Read about how Sety I and his architects built this magnificent structure between two pylon gateways which once served as the front entrance to Karnak Temple. Tour the Hall The Hypostyle Hall is thousands of miles away -- but you can tour entire structure without leaving your seat! Click here to begin a virtual tour of the historic Hypostyle Hall. Epigraphy Methods "Why don't you just take a photograph?" Why traditional photography is not the most scientifically reliable method of recording. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/7/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .