#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/ccfa/comm.php
Communication - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Communication Communication Sandra J. Sarkela, PhD Interim Department Chair Art and Communication Building (ACB) 901.678.2565 ANTONIO de VELASCO, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies E-mail: adevelsc@memphis.edu I. The Department of Communication awards two graduate degrees: the Master of Arts degree with a major in Communication and concentrations in Communication or Film and Video Production, and the PhD with a major in Communication. II. MA Program A Master’s Degree in Communication from The University of Memphis prepares students for success in the many professional opportunities in this field and success in pursuing a doctoral degree in Communication. Students have a choice of two concentrations: communication or film and video production. MA students in Communication work along side doctoral students in one of three areas (or a combination of areas): Rhetoric, Politics, and Society Health Communication Media, Technology, and Society The Film and Video Production concentration combines technical instruction with courses in both motion picture and traditional communication studies to provide students with the tools and concepts necessary to function in the multifaceted world of audiovisual production. The approach to media practice is broad enough to address the needs of the independent artist, as well as those who seek to enter the industry. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. A. Admissions Criteria Multiple criteria will be used when considering applicant admission, including, but not limited to, undergraduate and graduate grade point average, GRE scores, personal goals statement, relevant employment history, letters of recommendation, and quality of the applicant’s writing sample. The number of students admitted to the MA program will depend on availability of adequate faculty supervision and other department resources. More specific admissions criteria can be found on our department website. GRE scores are required for every applicant. See the Department of Communication website for information on applying. B. Initial Graduate Advising Before registering for courses beyond nine hours of study, the student will form an MA advisory program committee consisting of three members of the department's graduate faculty. One of these three (who must have full graduate faculty status), by request of the student and the consent of the faculty member, will serve as advisory committee chair. C. Formation and Conduct of Master’s Advisory Committee Role and Duties of MA Advisory Committee Chair and Members: All decisions pertaining to a student’s program must be approved by a consensus of the MA advisory committee, including meeting to approve a plan of study and approving the content of independent studies. Changes to the plan of study require advisory committee approval. D. Program Requirements Successful completion of a minimum of 30-33 hours of graduate courses, depending on the degree completion option a student and her/his committee agree on; 70% of the minimum must be at the 7000 level or above. Completion of the degree requires one of the following options; however students in Film and Video Production must complete option C, Culminating Project: Written and oral comprehensive examination. Students must pass both a written and oral comprehensive exam during or after their last semester of course-work. The student’s MA advisory committee must approve the option and is responsible for evaluating the comprehensive examination. A pass on the written examination is necessary for admission to the oral examination. The quality of the comprehensive examination as a whole is determined at completion of the oral examination. Students who elect this option must complete a minimum of 33 hours of graduate courses. Thesis and oral comprehensive examination. Students who elect this option should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. On completion of the thesis, the student must successfully complete an oral comprehensive examination, which will include an oral defense of the thesis, administered by the student’s MA advisory committee. The thesis, defense, and examination must be acceptable to all members of the advisory committee and recommended to the Graduate School after a successful defense. Students who elect this option must complete a minimum of 30 hours of graduate courses, of which 3 must be COMM 7996 Thesis. No more than 3 credits of COMM 7996 Thesis may count toward the 30 hour minimum Culminating project and oral comprehensive examination. This project must be completed under the supervision of a member of the graduate faculty. The student’s MA advisory committee must approve the option, and the student must enroll in at least three credits of COMM 7994, Culminating Project, during or after the last semester of course work. The culminating project provides an opportunity for students to demonstrate their ability to work independently, as well as their mastery of an area of concentration in an applied form approved by their advisory committee. The project may take one of several forms, including a community-based communication intervention, or in the case of FVP students, a film or video production. On completion of the culminating project, the student must successfully complete an oral comprehensive examination, which will include an oral defense of the project, administered by the student’s MA advisory committee. The project, defense, and examination must be acceptable to all members of the student’s MA advisory committee. Students who elect this option must complete a minimum of 30 hours of graduate courses, of which 3 must be COMM 7994 Culminating Project. All students must have competency in two of three core areas: Communication Theory, Rhetorical Theory, or Media Theory. These competencies can be satisfied academically in a variety of ways in consultation with the MA advisory committee. All students with a concentration in Film and Video Production must take three credits of COMM 7892, Film and Video Production, before beginning their final culminating project. Up to nine hours outside the department may be applied to the minimum hour requirement with the approval of the student’s MA advisory committee. Up to six semester hours earned at another institution may be applied to the minimum hour requirement with the approval of the student’s MA advisory committee. E. Graduate Assistantships Graduate assistantships are available and are awarded on a competitive basis within the department. Assistantships are normally renewed for one year depending upon the performance of assistantship duties and the progress being made towards a degree. Further details are available on the department website . F. Time Limitation All requirements for the degree must be completed in 6 calendar years. G. Retention At the end of every academic year, the graduate faculty in the Department of Communication evaluates the progress of every MA student in the program. For a student to continue in the program, he or she must maintain satisfactory progress. The student will be judged as NOT making satisfactory progress if: The student’s cumulative GPA drops below 3.0 and remains there for more than one semester or nine credit hours. The student has acquired more incompletes than he or she can complete during one semester of normal academic work. Should a student fail to maintain satisfactory progress, the Graduate Committee, in conjunction with the department chair, can recommend to the CCFA Associate Dean for Graduate Affairs and the U of M Vice Provost of Graduate Programs that the student be dropped from the program. Moreover, students found by the Office of Student Conduct to have committed misconduct will be sanctioned by the University in accordance with the policies contained in the “Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities.” In these cases, the Department may also recommend to the CCFA Associate Dean for Graduate Affairs and the U of M Vice Provost of Graduate Programs that the student be dropped from the program. H. Departmental MA Guidelines Additional details and information are available on the department website. III. Accelerated B.A./M.A Program in Communication This program allows outstanding undergraduates to begin the coursework for the Master of Arts in Communication during their senior year. Students must begin planning to enter the Accelerated B.A./M.A. program early in their undergraduate career, in consultation with their advisor in the Department of Communication. Working with the undergraduate and graduate academic coordinators, undergraduates selected into this program begin a carefully tailored course of study which will allow them to complete their B.A. degree while they also begin the coursework toward their M.A. To apply, students should have a minimum 3.25 grade point average, and must submit a copy of their transcript and two reference letters from Department of Communication faculty to the Department chair. Each applicant will complete an interview with the undergraduate and graduate studies coordinator. Students must also apply to the Graduate School for "combination senior" status, which allows them to take graduate courses in Communication. To continue in the program past the B.A., students must apply for full admission into the Graduate School and into the Communication department's M.A. program. Up to 9 hours of graduate course work may be applied to both the undergraduate and graduate programs. IV. PhD Program The PhD program offers three areas of specialization: Rhetoric, Politics, and Society,Media, Technology, and Society, and Health Communication. For details on these areas see the Department of Communication website . All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. A. Admissions Criteria Students can be admitted to the PhD program with or without a Master’s degree. We require your degree to be in Communication, Rhetoric, or a related field from an accredited institution. Multiple criteria will be used when considering your application for admission, including, but not limited to, undergraduate and graduate grade point average, GRE scores, statement of purpose, writing samples, relevant employment history, letters of recommendation, and the quality of the applicant’s writing. The number of students admitted to the PhD program will depend on availability of adequate faculty supervision and other department resources. More specific admissions criteria can be found on our department website. GRE scores are required for every applicant. See the Department of Communication website for information on applying. B. Graduate Advising Before registering for courses beyond 18 hours of study in the department, the student must choose a major advisor and form a PhD advisory program committee consisting of their major advisor to serve as chair and two members of the department's graduate faculty. Students must also submit a Plan of Study, approved by their committee, before registering for courses beyond 18 hours. C. Role of the PhD Advisory Committee All decisions pertaining to a student’s program must be approved by a consensus of the PhD advisory committee, including meeting to approve a plan of study and approving the content of independent studies. Changes to the plan of study require advisory committee approval. See information below on comprehensive exams and dissertation for more information on the role of the advisory committee. D. Program Requirements It is expected that students maintain a GPA of 3.0 throughout the PhD program. Should the student’s GPA fall below 3.0, nine semester hours will be allowed to correct the deficiency. At the request of the student’s PhD advisory committee and at the discretion of the department chair and the graduate committee, this period may be extended 9 additional semester hours. The student must have obtained a GPA of at least 3.0 before registering for dissertation credit hours. Any assistantship is forfeited if a student is put on probation. A minimum of 72 hours of graduate credit beyond the bachelor’s degree. At least 60 hours of credit must be at the 7000 level or higher. Students admitted to the PhD program without an MA must first complete the MA in Communication as part of their PhD requirements. For students who have already obtained a master’s degree when admitted to the program, a minimum of 42 hours of graduate credit at the 7000 level or higher beyond that master’s degree is required. A minimum of 6 hours must be taken from outside of the Department of Communication. No more than 9 hours of dissertation (COMM 9000) will count toward satisfying the total number of graduate hours required for the PhD. Research Tool or Analytic Specialty. Students must demonstrate competence in the research tool or analytic specialty required for completion of their dissertation. Competence can be demonstrated in a variety of ways to be determined by the student's advisory committee. Core Competencies. Students must have competency in the Department’s three areas of specialization: Rhetoric, Politics, and Society, Health Communication, and Media, Technology, and Society. These competencies can be satisfied academically in a variety of ways in consultation with the student's advisor. Residency Requirements. A minimum of 2 consecutive semesters (Fall/Spring or Spring/Fall) in residence (with a course load of 9 hours per semester) beyond the master’s degree must be completed prior to registering for dissertation credit. The summer session will not count as one of the required semesters. Comprehensive Examination. The examination will consist of a written and an oral portion. At the completion of the students’ course-work the student shall take a comprehensive exam over the areas covered in the student’s program. The content of the examination for each student will depend on the nature of the student’s program and the areas of concentration. The precise distribution of the 10 hours of the written exam and the areas that it will cover will be determined by the student’s PhD advisory committee. When appropriate, questions may be solicited from other faculty members to supplement those provided by the PhD advisory committee members. The comprehensive examination, which is both written and oral, is the primary basis on which the faculty of the department determine whether the student is ready to embark upon the program of research and writing culminating in the dissertation. The PhD advisory committee administers the comprehensive examination. At the close of the oral portion, the PhD advisory committee, after considering the quality of both oral and written responses, will determine the outcome. Students will not be allowed to take the comprehensive examination or submit a dissertation prospectus if they have any Incompletes outstanding in the approved program of study. Dissertation Requirements On successful completion of the comprehensive examination the student shall select a dissertation director and, in consultation with the director, invite three additional faculty members to serve as the students’ dissertation advisory committee. One member of the advisory committee must be from outside the discipline. The dissertation director serves as the chair of the dissertation committee. NOTE: Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. Dissertation Proposal Defense. The student shall submit a proposal for the dissertation to the dissertation advisory committee and defend the proposal before the committee. To be considered as "making satisfactory progress," a candidate must have his/her prospectus approved within two semesters of completion of the comprehensive examination. Dissertation Defense. The dissertation director will circulate a complete draft of the dissertation to all advisory committee members, who will be given the opportunity to provide feedback. The student will then make the required revisions, submit them to the dissertation director, and circulate them to all advisory committee members. This process will continue until a majority of the dissertation advisory committee formally agrees that the dissertation is ready to be defended. At that time, the dissertation director will schedule an oral defense of the dissertation. On approval of all of the members of the dissertation advisory committee, the dissertation will be submitted to the Graduate School for final approval and the degree awarded. Departmental PhD Guidelines. Additional details and information are available in the departmental PhD Guidelines found on the department website . E. Graduate Assistantships Graduate assistantships are available and are awarded on a competitive basis within the department. Assistantships are normally renewed for one year depending upon the performance of assistantship duties and the progress being made toward a degree. More details are available on the department website. F. Time Limit All requirements for the degree must be completed in 12 calendar years. G. Retention At the end of every academic year, the graduate faculty in the Department of Communication evaluates the progress of every PHD student in the program. For a student to continue in the program, he or she must maintain satisfactory progress. The student will be judged as NOT making satisfactory progress if: The student’s cumulative GPA drops below 3.0 and remains there for more than one semester or nine credit hours. The student has acquired more incompletes than he or she can complete during one semester of normal academic work. The student fails the Comprehensive exam. The student’s coursework does not demonstrate promise for independent scholarly work. Should a student fail to maintain satisfactory progress, the Graduate Committee, in conjunction with the department chair, can recommend to the CCFA Associate Dean for Graduate Affairs and the U of M Vice Provost of Graduate Programs that the student be dropped from the program. Moreover, students found by the Office of Student Conduct to have committed misconduct will be sanctioned by the University in accordance with the policies contained in the “Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities.” In these cases, the Department may also recommend to the CCFA Associate Dean for Graduate Affairs and the U of M Vice Provost of Graduate Programs that the student be dropped from the program. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .