#http://www.memphis.edu/about/accreditations.php
Accreditations - About UofM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. About UofM Home About UofM Accreditations About UofM General Information Accreditation Information Facts at a Glance History Key Administrators Mission, Vision and Strategic Plan Office of the President Tiger Pride Traditions UofM Fact Book Video: History of the UofM Campus &amp; Visitor Information Holiday Inn at the University of Memphis Event Calendar Bookstore Campus Map Campus Safety Report (PDF) Career Services: on- and off-campus jobs and internships Directions to Campus Memphis Attractions Parking Services Police Services Recreation Center Testing Center: CLEP testing, GRE, LSAT, MCAT, the UofM Prometric Center, etc. Transcripts Visit Campus Helpful Information AskTOM University FAQs Career Opportunities Majors, Minors, Concentrations Tiger Pride Apply Now Plan a Visit Accreditation Information University-Wide Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges The University of Memphis is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award bachelor's, first professional, master's, educational specialist's, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of the University of Memphis. Arts and Sciences Chemistry B.A., B.S., B.S.Ch. American Chemical Society City and Regional Planning M.C.R.P. Planning Accreditation Board (American Planning Association, American Institute of Certified Planners, and the Association of Collegiate Schools of Planning) Computer Science (B.S.) Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology/ Computing Accreditation Commission ABET/CAC Health Administration M.H.A. Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Management Education Public Administration M.P.A. National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration Psychology Ph.D. American Psychological Association Social Work B.A. Council on Social Work Education Business and Economics All Programs B.B.A., M.B.A , M.A., M.S., Ph.D. Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business--International Communication and Fine Arts Architecture M. Arch. National Architectural Accreditation Board Art B.A., B.F.A., M.A., M.F.A. National Association of Schools of Art and Design Interior Design B.F.A. Council for Interior Design Accreditation Journalism B.A., M.A. Accrediting Council on Education in Journalism and Mass Communication Music B.M. DMA Conducting/PHD Music Education National Association of Schools of Music Theatre National Association of Schools of Theatre Education Counseling and Personnel Services Ph.D. American Psychological Association Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs Teacher Education B.S.Ed., M.Ed., M.A.T. National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education Rehabilitation Education M.S.Ed. Council on Rehabilitation Education Engineering B.S.B.E., B.S.C.E., B.S.E.E., B.S.M.E., B.S.E.T. ABET, Inc. School of Law J.D. American Bar Association School of Nursing B.S.N. Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education Independent Programs Audiology and Speech Pathology M.A., Ph.D. American Speech-Language-Hearing Association About UofM General Information Accreditation Information Facts at a Glance History Key Administrators Mission, Vision and Strategic Plan Office of the President Tiger Pride Traditions UofM Fact Book Video: History of the UofM Campus &amp; Visitor Information Holiday Inn at the University of Memphis Event Calendar Bookstore Campus Map Campus Safety Report (PDF) Career Services: on- and off-campus jobs and internships Directions to Campus Memphis Attractions Parking Services Police Services Recreation Center Testing Center: CLEP testing, GRE, LSAT, MCAT, the UofM Prometric Center, etc. Transcripts Visit Campus Helpful Information AskTOM University FAQs Career Opportunities Majors, Minors, Concentrations Tiger Pride Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .