#http://www.memphis.edu/development/ways-to-give.php
Ways to Give - Development - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Development Donate Now Giving Options Inside the Office of Development Ways to Give Home Development Ways to Give Ways To Give There are so many ways for you to make an important investment in the University of Memphis. Find one that is comfortable for you and help us educate the dreamers, thinkers, and doers of today – and tomorrow. We make giving easy. You may make your gift: By credit card : Click here to make a gift online By mail : Make your check payable to the University of Memphis Foundation Department 238 The UofM Foundation P.O. Box 1000 Memphis, TN 38148-0001 In person : You may personally deliver your check to the Billy Mac Jones Building, 633 Normal Street. Office hours are Monday - Friday, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. By phone : call 901.678.3953 By automatic draft : Download the Automatic Bank Draft form and return to the Gift Records Department in the Alumni Center 635 Normal Street. Appreciated Securities If you own securities that have appreciated in value over time, you may owe a substantial capital gains tax if you sell them. But, if you use such assets to fund a charitable gift, you may completely avoid the capital gains tax while enjoying a federal income tax deduction for the full value of the securities. For maximum tax benefits, it is usually best to give securities that have increased in value the most since you have owned them. It is also possible to make a gift with appreciated securities in a mutual fund. For information on donating securities, please call Bobby Prince in the Development Office at 901-678-1335. Planned Gifts You can leave a lasting legacy for the University of Memphis through a will, living trust or retirement plan. The process is very simple and your gift benefits the University for generations to come. For information about planned gifts, please call Dan Murrell at 901.678.2732 or visit our planned giving website HERE . For a simple form to request or update information, click HERE . Employer Matching Gifts Many companies encourage their employees to make charitable contributions by matching their philanthropic support. At the University, donors receive credit for their employers' matching gifts. To find out if you work for a company that matches gifts, visit Matching Gifts . You may also consult your human resources office, which will provide you with a matching gift form. Gift Fee FAQ Q. What is the U of M Foundation's Development support fee? A. The fee on non-endowed, non-scholarship/fellowship gifts supports overall Development efforts for the University of Memphis including the cost of being accountable to you and other donors. This accountability includes our commitment to provide timely gift receipts, and accurate donor records and reports. In addition, the Development support fee will allow the U of M Foundation to better support the University's overall investment in fundraising. Q. How much is the support fee? A. Effective July 1, 2015, the fee is 5 percent of the gift value and is applied toward current expendable gifts (non-endowed). Gifts to scholarships/fellowships are excluded. Q. Why does the U of M Foundation have a development support fee? A. The development support fee allows the U of M Foundation to reduce the University's reliance on state funding for fundraising operations, thus freeing University funds for education, research and community service programs. The support fee revenue is directly related to the cost of doing business—as gifts to benefit the University of Memphis increase, the costs of fundraising, gift receipting, and reporting increase. Q. How are fundraising operations funded? A. Fundraising operations are currently funded through a combination of direct University support (state funding), a portion of Foundation revenue from earnings on short-term funds, and a portion of Foundation endowment management fees. The Development support fee adds another very important funding source. Q. Do other universities charge gift management fees? A. A fee of 5 to 10 percent of gifts is common at university foundations throughout the country. As a matter of fact, the majority of public research universities, like the U of M, assess a fee on gifts. Q. The local non-profit organizations I support don't charge gift management fees. What's the difference? A. The difference is primarily one of terminology. All community organizations have operating costs. In general, revenue from contributions helps to support them—whether or not a formal gift "fee" is identified. In the non-profit sector, best practice standards hold that operating costs in the range of 15-20 percent are considered to be excellent; assuring that approximately $.80 of every dollar contributed goes to providing direct services. By comparison, $.95 of each current expendable fund dollar you give to the U of M Foundation for purposes other than scholarships/fellowships gets put to work by the University. The entire amount of your gift toward an endowment or for a scholarship/fellowship is directed in accordance to your wishes. Q. How often does the Development support fee change? A. Changes to the U of M Foundation's funding sources are typically approved by our Budget, Finance &amp; Audit Committee and our Board of Trustees. The Budget, Finance &amp; Audit Committee routinely reviews all Foundation fees on an annual basis. Staff Directory Meet the Development Staff University of Memphis Foundation Learn about the University of Memphis Foundation Alumni Association Learn about the Alumni Association Glossary Click here for a Glossary of Terms Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/26/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .