#http://www.memphis.edu/management/faculty/ffabian.php
FRANCES FABIAN - MGMT - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Management Welcome Programs Courses Faculty PhD Students Research FCBE Faculty Welcome Programs Courses Faculty PhD Students Research Contact Us Home MGMT Faculty FRANCES FABIAN FRANCES FABIAN Associate Professor, Department of Management Phone 901.678.2851 Email ffabian@memphis.edu Fax Office FCA 211 Office Hours by appointment Website Biography Dr Fabian has published articles in several leading journals including Strategic Management Journal, Academy of Management Review, Journal of Management Studies, and Management International Review. Frances concentrates on strategic decision making. This interest has led to research on the corporate environment, and the nature of information, knowledge and wisdom for organizations . Though raised in South Pasadena, California, Frances took her undergraduate degree at Smith College and her MPP at Harvard University in Massachusetts. After 6 years with the Dallas, Los Angeles and San Francisco offices of the GAO, she left for her PhD with UT Austin. Following Austin, she taught for 7 years at Tulane University in New Orleans, and 4 years with UNC Charlotte in North Carolina. She is happily settled in the Memphis region in Bartlett, TN. Research Frances concentrates on strategic decision making. This interest has led to research on the industry environment, and the nature of information, knowledge and wisdom for organizations. Recent work has incorporated complexity theory to describe and depict the nonlinearities of modern decisionmaking environments. She is also embarking on a set of papers emphasizing entrepreneurship. Publications Wakolbinger, T., Fabian, F., Kettinger, W.J. forthcoming. IT-enabled Interorganizational Information Sharing Under Co-opetition in Disasters: A Game-Theoretic Framework. Communications of the Association for Information Systems . Wiggins, R.S. and Fabian, F. May 2013. Hypercompetition in the 21st Century: A Look Back and a Look Forward. In T. Wilkinson, V. R. Kannan (Eds). Strategic Management in the 21st Century, Santa Barbara, CA: Praeger. Bryant, P., Fabian, F., Kinnamon, E. and Wright, P. 2012. Tailoring Entrepreneurship Education: Exploring Components of Entrepreneurship Education for Underrepresented Groups. Journal of Business and Entrepreneurship , 23 (2): 1-24. Fabian, F.H., Molina, H., and Labianca, G. 2009. Understanding Decisions to Internationalize by Small- and Medium-Sized Firms in an Emerging Market. Management International Review . 49, (5): 537-564. Miller, K., Fabian, F.H., and Lin, S-J. 2009. Strategies for Online Communities, Strategic Management Journal, 30 (3): 305-322. Fabian, F.H. and Dhillon, G. 2007. Losing Managerial Discretion: The Unexplored Risk of Collaborative Information Sharing. Journal of Information Science and Technology, 4 (1 ): 50-62 . Fabian, F.H. and Ndofor. H. 2007. The Context of Entrepreneurial Processes: One Size Doesn&amp;#39;t Fit All. In T. Lumpkin, and J. Katz (Eds.). Advances in Entrepreneurship, Volume 10: 249-280. Firm Emergence and Growth , Elsevier/JAI. Black, J.A., Hinrichs, K. and Fabian, F.H. 2007. Fractals of Strategic Coherence. Nonprofit Management and Leadership , 17 (4) : 421-442. Fabian, F.H. and ogilvie, d. 2005. Strategy as Art. In S. Floyd, J. Roos, F. Kellermanns, and C. Jacobs (Eds.). Innovating Strategy Process, 56-71, part of the SMS Series, (Editor M.A. Hitt). Blackwell. Dhillon, G. and Fabian, F.H. 2005. A Fractal Perspective on Competencies Necessary for Managing Information Systems. International Journal of Technology Management, 31 (1/2) : 129-139. Black, J., Fabian, F.H. and Hinrichs, K. 2005. Fractals, Stories and the Development of Coherence in Strategic Logic. Competence-Based Strategic Management Applications 7 : 421-441, Elsevier. Golden, B.R., Dukerich, J.M. and Fabian, F.H. 2000. Issue Interpretation on the Resolution of Ethical Dilemmas in Professional Organizations. Journal of Management Studies, 8 (37) : 1157-1187. Fabian, F.H., 2000. Keeping the Tension: Pressures to Keep the Controversy in the Management Discipline. Academy of Management Review , 24 (2) : 350-371. Black, J. and Fabian, F.H. 2000. Fractals, Nested Resources and Competence Based Competition. In Theory Development for Competence-Based Strategic Management , JAI Press series of Advances in Applied Business Strategy Series, 1-30, John Wiley and Sons. ogilvie, d., and Fabian, F.H. 1999. Decision Making Requirements for Future Organizational Leaders. In J. Hunt (Ed.) Leadership Challenges of the Twenty-First Century Army, 63-89, JAI Press. ogilvie, d., and Hauge, F.H. 1998. Strategic Decision Making in the 21st Century Army: A Creative Action-Based Approach. In Stephen J. Havlovic (Ed.) Fifty-eight Annual Academy of Management Best Paper Proceedings, San Diego, CA, 1-7. Ashmos, D.P., Duchon, D., Hauge, F.H. and McDaniel, R.R. 1997. The Nature of Internal Complexity in Unusual Organizations: A Study of Environmentally Sensitive and Insensitive Hospitals. Hospital and Health Services Administration Journal , 41 (4) : 535-55. Teaching Has taught strategy at the undergraduate, graduate and executive levels, and PhD seminar. Also taught entrepreneurship, and global strategy. Service Frances participates in various Memphis area entrepreneurship organizations, and looks forward to contributing to a growing entrepreneurism in the region. Faculty Welcome Programs Courses Faculty PhD Students Research Contact Us MGMT News &amp; Events Learn about current events happening in our department! Research Colloquia Keep up with the latest Management academic research in our upcoming seminars. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .