#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/education/icl.php
Instruction and Curriculum Leadership - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) INSTRUCTION AND CURRICULUM LEADERSHIP Dr. Lee All, Interim Chair Room 106D, E.C. Ball Hall In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following: ICL 4701-09. Workshops in Curriculum and Instructional Leadership. (1-9). Various areas of curriculum and elements of instruction explored. Active student participation included. See online class listings for specific workshop number and topic. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit in any one topic. (S/U) ICL 4950-59. Special Topics in Instruction and Curriculum Leadership. (1-3). Current topics in areas of curriculum and instruction at all levels. Topics are varied an in online class listings. ICL 3000 - Principles of Teaching (3) Research practices and application of principles of instruction that promote effective teaching and facilitate cognition. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 2111, LEAD 2010. ICL 3001 - Know/Learn/Math/Science (3) Focus on issues of what it means to learn and know science and mathematics; includes critical examination of the needs of a diverse student population; discussion of current issues in education, especially as related to mathematics and science education. Enrollment limited to students in the Tigers Teach program. ICL 3002 - Classroom Interactions (3) Focus on teaching and learning in mathematics and science; includes introduction to ways in which curriculum and technology are effectively used in classroom settings; examines equity in mathematics and science. PREREQUISITE: INTD 1020, 1021, and ICL 3001. COREQUISITE: ICL 3003. ICL 3003 - Pract Secondary Math/Science (1) Extended field experiences involving observation and teaching in high school mathematics and science classrooms. PREREQUISITE: INTD 1020, 1021, ICL 3001. COREQUISITE: ICL 3002. ICL 3333 - Stdnt Assess/Inst Dec Mkng (3) Examination of aspects and types of classroom assessments, with particular interest on formative assessment, and the subsequent use of assessment results to improve student learning. PREREQUISITE: admission to TEP. ICL 3901 - Special Problems Instruction (1-6) Supervised individual investigation in area of instruction. PREREQUISITE: experience as teacher or satisfactory evidence of being qualified to benefit from course. ICL 4001 - Teaching/Diverse Environment (3) Teacher candidates develop appropriate knowledge and skills for managing the total learning environment in school settings; emphasis on developing skills that facilitate effective teaching through appropriate management techniques that are sensitive to the individual needs of students within culturally and economically diverse population, and that encourage the involvement of parents and community members. ICL 4002 - Fndmtl/Urban Mid Grade Ed (3) Teacher candidates develop knowledge of best practices for middle grades learning and cognition; identify, develop, and evaluate strategies and techniques of instruction that are sensitive to individual needs of children within a culturally and economically diverse population. Emphasis on planning, instruction, assessment, and professional development. Clinical/field experiences: additional hours required. PREREQUISITE: Admission to TEP. ICL 4003 - Teach Mid School Language Arts (3) Principles, techniques, materials for teaching language arts in middle grades. Additional hours of field experience required. PREREQUISITE: Admission to TEP. (F) ICL 4004 - Teach Mid Grade/Math (3) Instructional techniques, curriculum and materials for teaching mathematics to middle school students with emphasis on problem solving. Clinical/field Experience: additional field hours are required. PREREQUISITE: Admission to TEP. (F) ICL 4005 - Teach Mid Grade/Science (3) Instruction in principles, techniques, and materials for teaching relationships among science, technology, and society, for the middle grades students. Additional field hours are required. PREREQUISITE: Admission to TEP. (F) ICL 4006 - Teach Mid Grade/Social Science (3) Instructional strategies and assessment procedures relevant to teaching social studies to students in the middle grades. Emphasis will be placed on how to address the National Council of Social Studies Standards with middle school students. Clinical/field Experience: additional field hours are required. PREREQUISITE: Admission to TEP. (F) ICL 4007 - Curriculum/Instr Sec Math (3) Examination of research-based instructional approaches in secondary mathematics; investigation of mathematics curriculum standards and curricular materials. PREREQUISITE: Admission to TEP. ICL 4008 - Teaching Math in Urban Schools (3) Examination of equity and opportunity to learn mathematics in urban schools; history of mathematics education; culturally relevant pedagogy and teaching linguistically diverse students. PREREQUISITE: admission to TEP. ICL 4020 - Language/Comm/Diverse Classrm (3) Instruction for students with typical and exceptional communication needs; interpreting speech/language assessment reports and designing instruction; use of augmentative and alternative communication devices and working with non-native English speaking students. Field Hours: 8. PREREQUISITE: SPED 2000. COREQUISITE: ICL 4021, SPED 3800, ELED 3271, RDNG 4241, admission to TEP. ICL 4021 - Professional/Ethical Practices (3) Education policy and practice; accountability, ethics, advocacy. and social challenges; working with families and community stakeholders; instructional planning includes creating individual education plans, individual family plans and transition planning. PREREQUISITE: SPED 2000. COREQUISITE: ICL 4020, SPED 3800, ELED 3271, RDNG 4241, admission to TEP. ICL 4080 - Math Methods High School I (3) Pedagogical content knowldege in secondary mathematics focusing on Functions and Statistics and Probability. COREQUISITE MATH 4080. ICL 4081 - Math Methods HS Teachers II (3) Pedagogical content knowledge in secondary mathematics focusing on Functions and Statistics and Probability. COREQUISITE: MATH 4081. PREREQUISITE: provisional TEP admission. ICL 4121 - Library Materl Yng Peop/Adlts (3) Evaluation and selection of books and related library materials for leisure interests and curriculum needs of young people and adults from junior high school up; extensive reading, introduction to selection criteria, bibliographic aids, authors and illustrators, and types of literature and information books. ICL 4450 - Indivilized Instrctn Practicum (1-3) Implementation of instruction in individual and small group situations for learners experiencing difficulty in selected basic skills areas; requires design and delivery of tutorial type instruction under guidance of supervisory personnel. May be repeated for maximum of 9 hours credit. (S/U) ICL 4715 - Clinical/Practicum (2) Seminars and participation as assistant to classroom teacher; emphasis on teacher roles and on adapting subject discipline to school curriculum. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 2211, LEAD 2010. (S/U) ICL 4716 - Project-Based Instruction (3) Students master new technologies for project-based investigations in mathematics and science classrooms; use of assessment to improve student learning. Enrollment is limited to students in the Tigers Teach program. PREREQUISITE: ICL 3002, 3003. COREQUISITE: ICL 4717. ICL 4717 - Pract in Project-Based Instruc (3) Extended field experiences involving observation and teaching in high school mathematics and science classrooms. Field experiences focus on the implementation of Project-Based Instruction. PREREQUISITE: ICL 3002, 3003. COREQUISITE: ICL 4716. ICL 4761 - Aerospace Ed in Schools (3) Aerospace content and flight experiences. Emphasizes classroom application. ICL 4762 - Adv Aerospace Ed in Schools (3) Theory, principles and practices related to historical development of aerospace; emphasis on both civilian and military uses of aerospace capabilities. Appropriate utilization of aerospace research, concepts, and "spinoffs" for instructional purposes in the classroom at all grade levels. PREREQUISITE: ICL 4761. ICL 4800 - Residency II Prof Seminar (3) Seminar taken concurrently with Residency II; focus on the capstone assessment (edTPA) as well as analyzing and solving issues encountered during the Residency; focus on assisting teacher candidates in developing their expertise as professional educators. Successful completion of capstone assessment required. PREREQUISITE: Full admission to TEP, passing all required licensure exams. COREQUISITE: ICL 4904. ICL 4901 - Student Teach/Early Child (2-10) Full-time planned and supervised experience in a setting appropriate to student's area of specialization providing opportunities to synthesize knowledge and skills and demonstrate professional competencies in educational setting. PREREQUISITE: approval from Teacher Education Director. COREQUISITE: ICL 4800. (S/U) ICL 4902 - Clinical Residency II/ECED (9) Full-time planned placement appropriate to candidate's area of licensure providing opportunities to demonstrate competencies associated with successful teaching and student achievement. Capstone performance assessment requirement for successful completion. PREREQUISITE: admission to the Residency, approval from Director of Teacher Education, and passing all required licensure exams. COREQUISITE: ICL 4800. ICL 4904 - Residency II Clinical (9) Full-time clinical placement appropriate to candidate's area of licensure providing opportunities to demonstrate professional competencies associated with successful teaching and student achievement. Capstone performance assessment required for successful completion. PREREQUISITE: admission to TEP and passing all required licensure exam. COREQUISITE: ICL 4800. ICL 4906 - Teaching All Learners (2-10) Full-time planned and supervised experience in a setting appropriate to student's area of specialization providing opportunities to synthesize knowledge and skills and demonstrate professional competencies in educational setting. PREREQUISITE: approval from Teacher Education Director. COREQUISITE: ICL 4800. (S/U) ICL 4907 - Stdnt Tchng/Secondary School (2-10) Full-time planned and supervised experience in a setting appropriate to student's area of specialization providing opportunities to synthesize knowledge and skills and demonstrate professional competencies in educational setting. PREREQUISITE: approval from Teacher Education Director. COREQUISITE: ICL 4800. (S/U) ICL 4908 - Student Teaching/Health (2-10) Full-time planned and supervised experience in a setting appropriate to student's area of specialization providing opportunities to synthesize knowledge and skills and demonstrate professional competencies in educational setting. PREREQUISITE: approval from Teacher Education Director. COREQUISITE: ICL 4800. (S/U) ICL 4909 - Student Teaching/Phys Ed (2-10) Full-time planned and supervised experience in a setting appropriate to student's area of specialization providing opportunities to synthesize knowledge and skills and demonstrate professional competencies in educational setting. PREREQUISITE: approval from Teacher Education Director. COREQUISITE: ICL 4800. (S/U) ICL 4910 - Stdnt Tchng/Voc Home Ec (2-10) Full-time planned and supervised experience in a setting appropriate to student's area of specialization providing opportunities to synthesize knowledge and skills and demonstrate professional competencies in educational setting. PREREQUISITE: approval from Teacher Education Director. COREQUISITE: ICL 4800. (S/U) ICL 4911 - Student Teaching in Music (2-10) Full-time planned and supervised experience in a setting appropriate to student's area of specialization providing opportunities to synthesize knowledge and skills and demonstrate professional competencies in educational setting. PREREQUISITE: approval from Teacher Education Director. COREQUISITE: ICL 4800. (S/U) ICL 4913 - Clinical Residency II/Mid Grds (9) Full-time clinical placement appropriate to candidate's area of licendure providing opportunities to demonstrate professional competencies associated with successful teaching and student achievement. Capstone performance assessment required for successful completion. PREREQUISITE: admission to the Residency, approval of Director of Teacher Education, and passing all required licensure exams. COREQUISITE: ICL 4800. ICL 4914 - Residency I Practicum (5) An in-depth clinical experience designed to provide teacher candidates an opportunity to experience all aspects of being a professional educator. Candidates will be placed in partner schools for the entire first week of school and for multiple days each week of semester. PREREQUISITE: admission to TEP and passing appropriate Praxis II content knowledge exam. COREQUISITE: course work by licensure area with approval from advisor. ICL 4960 - Academic Content for Teaching (1-9) Academic content areas in disciplines supportive of school curriculum. May be repeated to remove deficits for teacher licensure and with change of content. ICL 4999 - Experiential Learning Credit (1-30) Experiential learning credit (ELC) is a highly individualized process whereby students can use the learning outcomes that they have earned through a broad range of out of classroom experiences before admittance to the University of Memphis to petition for college credit. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .