#http://www.memphis.edu/procurement/tigerbuy/faq.php
Frequently Asked Questions - Procurement and Contract Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Procurement and Contract Services Staff Directory Contract Services Tigerbuy and Bids Purchasing Card Travel Services Tigerbuy New Supplier/Vendor Registration Bid Calendar Current Bid Opportunities Vendor Information FAQs Tigerbuy Training Classes/Registration Tigerbuy Training Materials Home Procurement and Contract Services Tigerbuy Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions What is Tigerbuy? Tigerbuy is the University's new on-line bidding and eprocurement system. I am already a registered vendor; do I have to register in Tigerbuy? If you registered with the University prior to November 13, 2006, you will need to register through Tigerbuy to receive bid opportunities. Register here . If I need additional information regarding the Tigerbuy initiative, whom do I contact? Submit questions/comments to purchasing@memphis.edu or contact a Procurement staff member at 901.678.2265. What is the bid threshold? $50,000 and above – sealed bid solicited from a minimum of 15 vendors or the number of vendors on the University vendor list. $10,000 - $49,999 – informal bid solicited from a minimum of 3 qualified vendors. Do you make exceptions for late bids? No. As a University employee, how do I gain access to Tigerbuy? To gain access to Tigerbuy, potential users must attend a two-hour training course to learn how to navigate and use the system. The Tigerbuy training session is intended for members to learn the available functionality of Tigerbuy. Roles and permissions will be assigned based on Banner security. Requisitioners (Non-Approvers or Tigerbuy Requester) will learn to create purchase requisitions, and individuals who are a Financial Manager, Designee or Approver in Banner Finance will be provided access to create purchase requisitions, approve requisitions and enter receivers for payment of invoices. All participants should have access to Banner Finance before scheduling this training. Select the link below to request access to Business and Finance data and transactions in Banner. Upon completing the class: Users who already have access to Banner Finance will automatically be granted access to the Tigerbuy production environment. Users who do not have Banner Finance access must submit the form Request for B&amp;F System Access with the appropriate signatures. Registration for Tigerbuy training is available online at LEARNING CURVE . As a University employee, how do I enter the Tigerbuy system? The Tigerbuy system is accessible through the myMemphis portal. Users who attend training will be guided through the process of adding the SciQuest Higher Markets channel to their portal while in class. If the channel is removed from your portal, you may add it through the Content/Layout screen of your portal. As a University employee, how do I receipt items? Authorized approvers can enter receipts only when the goods or services are satisfactorily received and ready for payment. Note: Entering a receipt in Tigerbuy is "approval for payment." All invoices are supposed to be sent to Accounting; however, if a user receives the invoice, user should indicate the PO number on the invoice and forward it to Accounting (there is no need to stamp and sign the invoice). Tigerbuy New Supplier/Vendor Registration Bid Calendar Current Bid Opportunities Vendor Information FAQs Tigerbuy Training Classes/Registration Tigerbuy Training Materials Doing Business with the University of Memphis Information on how to do business with the U of M and our e-procurement and bidding system, Tigerbuy THEPI Tennessee Higher Education Purchasing Initiative Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/28/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .