#http://www.memphis.edu/economics/faculty/ajhussey.php
ANDREW HUSSEY - ECON - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Economics Welcome Programs Faculty Research News FCBE About Programs Faculty Research News Home ECON Faculty ANDREW HUSSEY ANDREW HUSSEY Associate Professor, Department of Economics Phone 901.678.1487 Email ajhussey@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2685 Office BA 423 Office Hours M 4:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m., W 1:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. CV Website Research Areas: Labor Economics, Economics of Education, Health Economics Teaching Areas: Labor Economics, Microeconomics, Econometrics, Game Theory Working Papers “Crime Spillovers and Hurricane Katrina,” with Alex Nikolsko-Rzhevskyy and Ioana Sofia Pacurar. Under revision at Journal of Human Resources . “Analyzing the Effects of Parental Separation on the Short-term, Medium-term, and Long-term Outcomes of Adolescents,” with Debjani Kanjilal and Anil Nathan. Under revision at Journal of Family and Economic Issues. “MBAs, Earnings and Promotions: Estimating the Compensating Differential of Managerial Status.” “Self-Confidence and Post-Baccalaureate Academic and Labor Market Outcomes,” with Weiwei Chen and Wayne Grove. Under revision at Journal of Economic Psychology. Publications “Greek Organization Membership and Collegiate Outcomes,” with Nathan Martin and Jay Walker. Forthcoming, Research in Higher Education. “Adolescent Obesity, Educational Attainment, and Adult Earnings,” with John Amis and Albert Okunade, 2014. Applied Economics Letters 21(13):945-50. “Returns to MBA Quality: Pecuniary and Non-Pecuniary Returns to Peers, Faculty, and Institution Quality,” with Wayne Grove, 2014. Labour Economics 26:43-54. “AIDing Contraception: HIV and Recent Trends in Abortion Rates,” with Alex Nikolsko-Rzhevskyy and Jay Walker, 2014. Applied Economics 46(15): 1788-1803. “Affirmative Action in MBA Programs: Investigating the Mismatch Hypothesis for Race and Gender,” with Wayne Grove, 2014. B.E. Journal of Economic Analysis and Policy (Advances) 14(3): 613-668. “Racial Segregation Patterns in Selective Universities”, with Peter Arcidiacono, Esteban Aucejo, and Kenneth Spenner, 2013. Journal of Law and Economics 56(4): 1039-60. “The Payoff to School Selectivity: An Application of Dale and Krueger's Method to MBA Programs,” with Weiwei Chen and Wayne Grove, 2012. Economics Letters 116(2): 247-249 . “Human Capital Augmentation versus the Signaling Value of MBA Education,” 2012. Economics of Education Review 31(4): 442-451. “The Effect of Ethics on Labor Market Success: Evidence from MBA Graduates,” 2011. Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization 80(1): 168-180. “Estimating the Ex Ante Expected Returns to College,” with Omari Swinton, 2011. American Economic Review Papers &amp; Proceedings , Vol. 101, No. 3: 598-602. “The Gender Pay Gap Beyond Human Capital: Heterogeneity in Noncognitive Skills and in Labor Market Tastes,” with Wayne Grove and Michael Jetter, 2011. Journal of Human Resources, 46(4): 827-874. “Returns to Field of Study versus School Quality: MBA Selection on Observed and Unobserved Heterogeneity,” with Wayne Grove, 2011. Economic Inquiry , Vol. 49, No. 3: 730-749. “The Effects of Focused Area of Study on Self-Reported Skill Gains and Satisfaction of MBA Graduates,” 2009. The Journal of Global Business Management , Vol. 5, No. 2. “Overweight Adolescents and On-time High School Graduation: Racial and Gender Disparities,” with Albert A. Okunade and Mustafa C. Karakus, 2009. Atlantic Economic Journal , Vol. 37, No. 3: 225-242. “The Economic Returns to an MBA,” with Peter Arcidiacono and Jane Cooley, 2008. International Economic Review, Vol. 49, No. 3: 873-899. About Programs Faculty Research News Undergraduate Programs Learn about our undergraduate offerings! Seminars Keep up with the latest Economic academic research in our upcoming seminars. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .