#http://www.memphis.edu/cas/atoz.php
A to Z List - CAS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. College of Arts &amp; Sciences About Departments Research Scholarships Students Resources News Home CAS A to Z List College of Arts &amp; Sciences A to Z List If you have a department, institute, center, program, study, form or any link you'd like to see included in this listing, please e-mail Debra Turner . A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P R S T U V W A Accolades Advising Center Staff Advisors (undergraduate) Advisor Information African and African American Studies (AAAS) Alumni Association (Arts and Sciences) Alumni Distinguished Research/Creative Achievement Award Anthropology, Department of Arts &amp; Sciences Graduate Degree Programs B B.A. in Economics Benjamin Hooks Institute for Social Change Bioinformatics, Department of Biological Sciences, Department of Bornblum Judaic Studies C Career and Employment Services Center of Applied Psychological Research Center for Earthquake Research and Information (CERI) Center for Health Services Center for Research on Women (CROW) Chemistry, Department of Chucalissa Indian Village and Museum City &amp; Regional Planning, Department of Commencement Computer Science, Department of The Confucius Institute at the University of Memphis Contact Information for the College of Arts and Sciences Contact Information for Departments and Divisions in CAS Council for Graduate Studies and Research By-Laws Criminology &amp; Criminal Justice, Department of D Degree Certification Process Degree information Degree Sheets Departments (Arts &amp; Sciences) Distinguished Research/Creative Achievement Award (Guidelines for Evaluating Nominations) Distinguished Teaching Award E Earth Sciences, Department of Ecological Research Center Edward J. Meeman Biological Station E-files Online Newsletter English, Department of Environmental Studies F Faculty Resources Faculty Senate Website Filing Intent to Graduate Finding Your Advisor Finish In Four Foreign Languages &amp; Literatures, Department of Forms (Arts and Sciences) G General Education Information Governor's School for International Studies Graduation Checklist Graduation Information Graduate Coordinators Graduate Catalog Graduate School at the University of Memphis Graduate Assistant Meritorious Teaching Award Green Campus Initiative Guide for Advisors H History, Department of I Institute for Gambling Education and Research Institute for Intelligent Systems Institutions and Centers Intent to graduate - Interdisciplinary Studies (African and African American Studies, Asian Studies and International Trade, Bioinformatics, Governor's School for International Studies, International Studies, Judaic Studies, and Women's and Gender Studies) International Studies L Late add a class Late or Retroactive withdrawal M Major and Minor Information Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities (MOCH) Materials Science (Department of Physics and Material Sciences) Mathematical Sciences, Department of Meeting with your Advisor Microbiology and Molecular Cell Science (MMCS) Museum Studies My Memphis Portal N O On Line Degree Information Outstanding Alumni Award Outstanding Friend's Award Overload request (Undergraduate) P Philosophy, Department of Physics and Materials Science, Department of Pinch Journal (Creative Writing) Political Science, Department of Pre-Health Information Pre-Health Student Guide Pre-Law Information Pre-Professional Advisor Pre-Law Student Guide Professional Development Assignments Program PROFILES College Newsletter Psychology, Department of Public Administration, Department of R Regional Economic Development Center Registration Worksheet Religious Studies (Interdisciplinary Studies) River City Writers' Series (RCWS) ROTC - Aero ROTC - Army ROTC - Navy S School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy Scholarships (College of Arts and Sciences) Shared Appointments Social Work, Department of Sociology, Department of Staff Senate Website T Travel Enrichment Funding Applications U Undergraduate Advising at UofM Undergraduate Catalog University of Memphis Alumni Association W W.H. Feinstone Center for Genomic Research Women's and Gender Studies WorkForum Apply now for an Undergraduate Degree in the College of Arts &amp; Sciences Pursue your dream of having a degree, broaden your career choices and gain the confidence you need to succeed! The College offers Master's and Doctoral Degrees Are you interested in a new profession? Would you like to enhance the knowledge and experience you already possess? Community Engagement We are committed to teaching and serving the Memphis and Mid-South community through our programs and events. Contact Us Dean's Office Contacts, Advising, Department Chairs... Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .