#http://www.memphis.edu/herff/about/
UofM - Herff Home - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Herff College of Engineering Future Students Current Students Alumni Research Departments About About Herff History Accreditation Facts at a Glance Herff Facts Enrollment Profile Herff Headlines Herff Headlines Herff Headlines Archive Strategic Plan Herff Advisory Council Faculty Resources Assessment Rubric for Comprehensive Exam Revised Spring 2015 Assessment Rubric for MS and PhD Final Defense Result Revised Spring 2015 Engineering Technical Support Home Herff Home About Herff About Herff College of Engineering Welcome to the Herff College of Engineering (HCOE), a place where we can help you achieve your dreams! Imagine a college that impacts the quality of life throughout an entire region. That is what we strive to do at the Herff College of Engineering. We impact our region and beyond in a myriad of ways such as developing new biomedical devices or saving energy by improving transportation efficiency. We also impact the individual lives of our students when we prepare them for successful and rewarding careers. These careers encompass the traditional areas of engineering and technology. However, many of our graduates go on to excel in business, law, medicine, education, and public service as well. Since offering its first classes in 1964, Herff College has developed a reputation for excellent instruction. Over 50 dedicated faculty members with outstanding academic and professional credentials comprise the College enabling us to offer a variety of undergraduate and graduate degree programs. All undergraduate programs are accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission or the Engineering Technology Accreditation Commission of ABET, Inc. This is the recognized U.S. accreditor of college and university programs in applied science, computing, engineering, and technology ( ). Accreditation ensures the quality of the education our students receive, and this is important to job placement and the ability to compete for the best engineering jobs. As you are searching for a place to obtain an exceptional education that will prepare you for a lifetime of work bringing the fruits of technology to people, please spend some time with us, whether by visiting campus or exploring this site. You will learn about our nearly 20 degree programs and many exciting activities and services that enrich or smooth the path to an engineering degree. Mission, Vision &amp; Guiding Principles MISSION We will provide quality education, research, and service that responds to the needs and challenges of this region and nation. We will promote the knowledge, skills, ethics, creativity, and critical thinking necessary for professional competence and lifelong learning, including an international perspective and a social awareness. We will conduct quality scholarship and research across the College, and world-class research in selected areas. VISION We will be the College of choice for engineering students in this region. GUIDING PRINCIPLES The success of our students will be the primary measure of our success. We will provide a diverse and vibrant atmosphere that encourages all students, faculty, and staff to attain their maximum potential. We will instill a spirit of pride, cooperation, and accountability in everything we do. We believe that instruction, research, scholarship, service, and outreach are mutually supportive activities. Faculty &amp; Staff Directory Herff College of Engineering Committees About Herff History Accreditation Facts at a Glance Herff Facts Enrollment Profile Herff Headlines Herff Headlines Herff Headlines Archive Strategic Plan Herff Advisory Council Faculty Resources Assessment Rubric for Comprehensive Exam Revised Spring 2015 Assessment Rubric for MS and PhD Final Defense Result Revised Spring 2015 Engineering Technical Support Visit Herff See what Herff has to offer YOU! Give to Herff Shape the future of engineering today! Herff Faculty &amp; Staff Herff Faculty &amp; Staff E-Day E-Day Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .