#http://www.memphis.edu/hypostyle/about-architecture/
about the architecture - Hypostyle - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Karnak Great Hypostyle Hall Project About Hypostyle Meaning &amp; Function Reliefs &amp; Inscriptions The Project Home Hypostyle architecture About the Architecture Architectural Design of the Hall Sety I’s architects designed the Hypostyle Hall to fill an open space that lay between two pylon gateways that had each, in their time, served as the front entrance to Karnak Temple. Pharaoh Amenhotep III (ruled ca. 1346-1349 BCE) built what we call the Third Pylon , and two generations later, the Eighteenth Dynasty's last king, Horemheb (ruled ca. 1321-1293 BCE) built his Second Pylon further to the west, which became the new main entrance to Karnak. Reconstructed model of the layout of the Second Pylon (foreground) and Third Pylon (background). © UCLA digital Karnak. The First, Second, and Third Pylons are not ancient names, but ones Egyptologists gave them based on the order in which they appear as visitors move from the outside of Karnak eastward towards the holy of holies along the main east-west axis of the temple. There are six pylons along the east-west axis, with the First Pylon being the newest and the Fourth through Sixth Pylons being the oldest. On a counter axis extending southward from the center of Karnak lie four great open courts, each fronted by a massive pylon gateway, the Seventh through Tenth Pylons. Plan of the Karnak Temple Complex during the 19th Dynasty. Rather than build yet another grand entrance in front of the Second Pylon, the kings of the early Nineteenth Dynasty decided to fill the open space between Horemheb’s Second Pylon and Amenhotep III’s older Third Pylon with a grand hypostyle hall. Although this project may have begun during the brief two year reign of Ramesses I (ruled ca. 1293-1291 BCE), the Great Hypostyle Hall is essentially the work of his son Sety I, who erected cross-walls to connect the outer wings of the two pylons and filled the enclosure with no less than 134 columns supporting a high roof. Model reconstruction of the Hypostyle Hall built between the Second and the Third Pylon. © UCLA Digital Karnak. Plan of the Hypostyle Hall. Two rows of columns, twelve in all, line the central nave that leads into the temple, back toward the main sanctuary of Amun-Re. These reach heights of 20 meters (65.6 feet) and have wide, bell-shaped capitals representing papyrus stalks in bloom. To either side of these, two adjoining rows of smaller columns uphold the clerestory roof with its gigantic stone window grilles which let in light. One hundred and twenty-two of these shorter columns, each measuring 14 meters (45.9 feet), supported the lower roof for the remainder of the Hall’s northern and southern wings beyond the nave. View of the larger columns with architraves still in situ and the remains of a clerestory window in the background (left) and smaller columns (right). The architects laid out these closed-bud papyrus columns in evenly spaced rows, broken only by a central counter-axis running from north to south and bisecting the main processional route running from east to west through the central nave of the Hall. Doorways in the center of the north and south walls opened onto pathways which led, respectively, to smaller “guest temples” dedicated to the gods Ptah and Monthu (north) and Khonsu (south) to either side of the main temple of Amun-Re. Diagram of the Hypostyle Hall with its main east-west axis lines by twelve large columns, with the smaller columns to their either side holding up the clerestory windows and the rest of the roof of the Hall. All of these columns upheld a roof consisting of networks of massive stone beams called architraves . Four sets of architraves run east-west through the central nave, while those on the lower parts of the roof align north-south. Many of those in the north wing have now collapsed and were replaced in the early 20 th Century with hollow metal and concrete facsimiles. Those in the central and south naves survive largely intact. Giant pieces of these architraves are scattered about the Karnak complex, including one resting inside the First Court which visitors to the temple can inspect next to the remains of a mud brick ramp used in the construction of the First Pylon’s south tower. View of architraves on top of smaller columns still in situ. The architraves’ purpose was to allow dozens of ceiling slabs to rest upon them. Except for a pair of small slots carved in some of them to admit narrow shafts of light, the only ambient illumination in the Hypostyle Hall came via the massive window grilles of the clerestory. All but a couple of these ceiling slabs have collapsed so that today the Hypostye Hall is flooded with sunlight. In antiquity, however, the ceiling would have cloaked it in a spooky twilight even at the height of day. View of a clerestory window. Reconstructed model of the way the clerestory windows would have provided lighting for the Hall. © UCLA Digital Karnak. The completed structure, with its 134 columns enclosed by the towers of the Second and Third Pylon to its west and east and by side walls on its north and south, covers nearly an acre and exceeds by far the dimensions of any similar columned hall in any other Egyptian temple, earlier or later. Within this space could rest almost all of Paris’ Notre Dame cathedral. Welcome to the Karnak Great Hypostyle Hall Project! In antiquity, Karnak was the largest religious sanctuary in Egypt's imperial capital of Thebes (modern Luxor) and was home to the god Amun-Re, king of the Egyptian pantheon. About the Architecture Who designed the Hypostyle Hall and why did they do it? Read about how Sety I and his architects built this magnificent structure between two pylon gateways which once served as the front entrance to Karnak Temple. Tour the Hall The Hypostyle Hall is thousands of miles away -- but you can tour entire structure without leaving your seat! Click here to begin a virtual tour of the historic Hypostyle Hall. Epigraphy Methods "Why don't you just take a photograph?" Why traditional photography is not the most scientifically reliable method of recording. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/7/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .