#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/current_students/ga.php
Graduate Assistantships - Graduate School - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate School Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Programs Events Resources Current Students Contact Us Fellowship and Scholarship Information Graduate Assistantship Information Graduate School Calendar Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Orientation Presentation Graduation Information Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide Home Graduate School Current Students Graduate Assistantships Graduate Assistantships Graduate teaching and research assistantships are available in most of the academic areas of The University of Memphis, requiring 10-20 hours of service per week. Most assistantships are provided by the student's home academic unit. Contact the department directly for additional information . Graduate assistants who work at least 10 hours per week are classified as in-state students for fee-paying purposes for the term of their appointment as graduate assistants only. Graduate assistantship contracts filed by the fourth day of class are eligible for a scholarship equal to the amount of tuition and fees. Be certain to review the responsibilities of a graduate assistant . To learn how to upload your resume when seeking an assistantship please click here . Nonresident assistants appointed for the preceding spring semester are eligible for in-state fees for summer, whether or not the student holds an assistantship in that summer term. Non-degree students may not be awarded an assistantship. Graduate assistants must maintain a 3.00 GPA to retain their assistantships. Regents Online Degree Program Fees are not covered by graduate assistantship waivers. UM Online Program Fees are not covered by graduate assistantships or any other fee waivers. Graduate teaching assistants must have a master's in the teaching discipline or 18 graduate credit hours in the discipline. GAs must have direct supervision by a faculty member experienced in the teaching discipline, regular in-service training, and planned and periodic evaluations. Non-native English speakers must also pass the SPEAk test before they can be appointed teaching assistants. Contact the Center for International Programs and Services for information on when the SPEAK test is administered. Teaching assistants may teach only undergraduate courses; in exceptional cases they may be approved by the Dean of the Graduate School to teach 4000/6000 courses. They may not teach more than 6 hours of for-credit courses without prior approval from the Dean of the Graduate School. UofM/Church Health Center's Memphis Plan for Graduate Assistants The University of Memphis has partnered with Church Health Center to offer Memphis Plan health coverage to all domestic graduate assistants. Please make certain to carefully read your email announcing your new eContract for the coming semester for instructions as to how to apply for the UofM/Church Health Center Memphis Plan for Graduate Assistants. You will be required to authorize payroll deduction for the student portion of plan costs in order to participate in the plan. Access to both the plan application, and a way to electronically accept payroll deduction, will be included in the aforementioned email. Student costs effective September 1, 2015, are as follows: Month to Month Coverage Academic Year Coverage Annual, Full year Coverage Beneficiaries GA UofM Total GA UofM Total GA UofM Total Student Only $40.00 $10.00 $50.00 $40.00 $10.00 $50.00 $53.00 $10.00 $63.00 Student + 1 Dependent $65.00 $10.00 $75.00 $65.00 $10.00 $75.00 $78.00 $10.00 $88.00 Student + 2 Dependents $90.00 $10.00 $100.00 $90.00 $10.00 $100.00 $103.00 $10.00 $113.00 Student + 3 or more Dependents $115.00 $10.00 $125.00 $115.00 $10.00 $125.00 $103.00 $10.00 $113.00 One Dependent, Only $50.00 $0.00 $50.00 $50.00 $0.00 $50.00 $63.00 $0.00 $63.00 Two Dependents, Only $75.00 $0.00 $75.00 $75.00 $0.00 $75.00 $88.00 $0.00 $88.00 Three Dependents, Only $100.00 $0.00 $100.00 $100.00 $0.00 $100.00 $113.00 $0.00 $113.00 Four or More Dependents, Only $125.00 $0.00 $125.00 $125.00 $0.00 $125.00 $125.00 $0.00 $125.00 All amounts are expressed as monthly, payroll deducted charges. Both the amounts a GA will pay and the University will pick up are listed for each plan below. To find out more information regarding the Memphis Plan, please visit the following webpage: . DEADLINE The deadline to submit your application to CHC is the 23rd day of the second month prior to the desired coverage starting month. For example, if you submit your application by November 23rd, your coverage (if your application is accepted) will begin January 1st. Plans Month to Month: Student and University pays on a month by month basis for the semesters the student selects in their application. Academic Year: Coverage is for the academic year (October through May), billing will take place September through April (at the end of each month). Annual (Full Year): Coverage is for the full calendar year. Payroll deduction will occur, in even amounts, September through April (at the end of each month). TEACHING EFFECTIVENESS WORKSHOP FOR GRADUATE TEACHING ASSISTANTS: PRESENTATIONS Advanced Learning Center FERPA and Web-Based Grading Legal Issues on Campus Office of Student Judicial and Ethical Programs Tips for Teaching Effectively Current Students Contact Us Fellowship and Scholarship Information Graduate Assistantship Information Graduate School Calendar Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Orientation Presentation Graduation Information Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide Get More Information Request information about a specific program of interest. Graduate Catalog Learn more about our programs. Apply Now Submit your application today. Support Graduate Education Your gifts make a difference! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .