#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/future_students/gre_fee_reduction.php
GRE Fee Reduction - Graduate School - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate School Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Programs Events Resources Future Students Admissions for International Students Apply to Graduate School Degree Program Contacts Disability Resources for Students Graduate School Contact Information English Conditional Admission for International Students Federal Assistance Opportunities Financial Aid Office Graduate Admissions Office Revised GRE ETS Workshop Information GRE Fee Reduction Request Search for Off-Campus Housing Tennessee Eligibility Verification for Entitlements Act Test Score Information University Fees &amp; Tuition Home Graduate School Future Students GRE Fee Reduction 2015-2016 GRE Fee Reduction Certificate Guidelines and Request Effective 07/01/2015 through 06/30/2016 To be eligible for a GRE Fee Reduction Certificate, an applicant must have on file the 2015-2016 Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and must be a U.S. citizen or resident alien who is a college senior or an unenrolled college graduate, College seniors must be (1) receiving financial aid through an undergraduate college in the U.S., American Samoa, Guam, U.S. Virgin Islands or Puerto Rico AND EITHER (2) a dependent, who has an Institutional Student Information Report(ISIR) that shows a parental contribution of not more than $1,500 for the senior year, OR (3) self-supporting and have an ISIR that shows a contribution of not more than $1,900 for the senior year. Unenrolled college graduates must have (1) have applied for financial aid, AND (2) have an ISIR that indicates self-supporting status and a contribution of not more than $1,900. Individuals previously approved for a GRE Fee Reduction Certificate may retake a GRE test for 50 percent of the full test fee within submitting a new Fee Reduction Certificate and ISIR form if testing within one calendar year of their approval date. These individuals can download the Declaration of Eligibility form available at and follow the directions on the form. The coordinator must complete and sign the certificate and note in the student's file that a GRE Fee Reduction Certificate has been issued by the coordinator signing the certificate, as well as the Registrar's Office affixing the seal or school stamp on it, it attests to the applicant's eligibility in accordance with the GRE Board requirements indicated above. Allow the coordinator 24hours to complete the GRE Fee Reduction Certificate Request. The applicant needs to follow the directions on the GRE Fee Reduction Certificate to register for a GRE test. If you meet these requirement and want to request a GRE Fee Reduction Certificate, please complete the GRE Fee Reduction Request form and submit it to the Student Aid Office in 103 Wilder Tower. You can download a copy of the form here . Future Students Admissions for International Students Apply to Graduate School Degree Program Contacts Disability Resources for Students Graduate School Contact Information English Conditional Admission for International Students Federal Assistance Opportunities Financial Aid Office Graduate Admissions Office Revised GRE ETS Workshop Information GRE Fee Reduction Request Search for Off-Campus Housing Tennessee Eligibility Verification for Entitlements Act Test Score Information University Fees &amp; Tuition Get More Information Request information about a specific program of interest. Graduate Catalog Learn more about our programs. Apply Now Submit your application today. Support Graduate Education Your gifts make a difference! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .