#http://www.memphis.edu/cas/faculty-resources/
Resources - CAS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. College of Arts &amp; Sciences About Departments Research Scholarships Students Resources News Resources Academic Department Chairs , Program Directors ACCOLADES Archive Awards Chair Leadership/Development Dean's Office Calendar Departments Evaluations Faculty Recruitment Information and Policies Institutes and Centers Research Support Services President's Blog Research, Grants, Funding Tenure and Promotion UMdrive Home CAS Resources Faculty Resources Awards &amp; Accolades The following award recipients information can be found on the College of Arts &amp; Sciences Accolades website . Thomas W. Briggs Excellence in Teaching Awards Alumni Association Awards for Distinguished Research and Creative Achievement (formerly: Distinguished Research Award) Arts and Sciences - Chairs of Excellence College of Arts and Sciences Award for Teaching Excellence Dean's Award for Advising Excellence Distinguished Research Award Distinguished Teaching Award Dunavant University Professorships - Arts and Sciences Early Career Research Award Eminent Faculty Award Excellence in Engaged Scholarship Graduate Assistant Meritorious Teaching Award Learn and Serve Faculty Award Meritorious Faculty Award W. Russell Smith Teaching Award Atkins University Professorships Faudree University Professorships First Tennessee University Professorships Chair Leadership Development CAS Chair Handbook Surviving Evaluation Season (powerpoint by Dr. Joy Clay) Workshop #1 Faculty Evaluations Workshop #2 High Performance Staff Management Workshop #3 Creating a departmental culture that supports research among faculty and students Evaluations NOTE: The Evaluation Server for archived evaluations is temporarily unavailable. If you need a copy of an evaluation, please contact Debra Turner at dmturner@memphis.edu or 678.5449 Calendar Year 2011-Present Archive Chairs/Directors Evaluation of Faculty Chairs/Directors Evaluation of Faculty Chairs/Directors Evaluation of Dean Head of SUAPP Evaluation of Chairs/Directors Faculty Evaluation of Chair/Director Guidelines Faculty Planning Report Form - Word document Faculty Planning Report Form - Excel version TBR Annual Evaluation Faculty CV Application Administrative Views for Evaluations NOTE: The Evaluation Server for archived evaluations is temporarily unavailable. If you need a copy of an evaluation, please contact Debra Turner at dmturner@memphis.edu or 678.5449 Information and Policies Faculty Handbook Faculty Teaching Load Guidelines Guidelines on Shared Faculty Appointments Part-time instruction forms and directions Part-time Instructor Information and Guide University of Memphis Policies and Procedures Faculty Recruitment Affirmative Action - Office of the President Department Chair and Program Director Searches Step by Step Instructions for Faculty Hires in workForum Faculty Search Guidelines Faculty Search Committee Code of Conduct Codes for Rejected Applicants Preventing Biases in Interviews Research, Grants and Funding Council for Graduate Studies and Research By-Laws Travel Enrichment Funds Application (Formerly Donovan Travel Enrichment Funds) Faculty Research Grant Professional Development Assignment Tenure and Promotion Mid-Tenure Dossier Instructions Tenure and Promotion Calendar (updated Aug 2015) Current College Committee Members Tenure and Promotion Guidelines Tenure and Promotion Guides and Forms (provost's website) Resources Academic Department Chairs , Program Directors ACCOLADES Archive Awards Chair Leadership/Development Dean's Office Calendar Departments Evaluations Faculty Recruitment Information and Policies Institutes and Centers Research Support Services President's Blog Research, Grants, Funding Tenure and Promotion UMdrive Apply now for an Undergraduate Degree in the College of Arts &amp; Sciences Pursue your dream of having a degree, broaden your career choices and gain the confidence you need to succeed! The College offers Master's and Doctoral Degrees Are you interested in a new profession? Would you like to enhance the knowledge and experience you already possess? Community Engagement We are committed to teaching and serving the Memphis and Mid-South community through our programs and events. Contact Us Dean's Office Contacts, Advising, Department Chairs... Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .