#http://www.memphis.edu/finance/faculty/pjain.php
PANKAJ JAIN - FIR - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate Welcome Programs Faculty &amp; Staff Research News &amp; Events FCBE Faculty &amp; Staff Programs Degree Programs Undergraduate Finance Course Catalog Undergraduate Finance Course Descriptions Business Finance Concentration Real Estate Concentration Banking and Financial Services Concentration Professional Real Estate Certificate Finance Master’s Program Ph.D. Program Faculty &amp; Staff Research Seminars Faculty Publications News &amp; Events Cook Analytics &amp; Trading Lab Contact Us Home FIR Faculty &amp; Staff PANKAJ JAIN PANKAJ JAIN Professor, Department of Finance Phone 901.678.3810 Email pjain@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.0839 Office BA 425 Office Hours By Appointment Website Biography Professor P.K. Jain (Pankaj Kumar Jain) joined the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics at the University of Memphis in 2002 and dedicated himself to the dual missions of enhancing the national and international reputation of the Department of Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate and personally ensuring that every student he taught at the doctoral, masters, and undergraduate level launched a highly successful career upon graduation. His coaching goes well beyond the classroom lecture experience. He travels with the students to leading global events and student competitions on investment research where students apply the textbook knowledge at a level that can help them impress upon the potential employers that they are better off hiring Memphis tigers over peer groups any other college. There are many examples of the fruits of this labor. FCBE students often score a slam-dunk in the Mid-South investment research competitions and TVA portfolio management challenge. Under P.K’s mentorship, FCBE students have frequently won scholarships and occasionally had the opportunity to participate in CFA Institute global research competition in Omaha and experience first hand lunch meetings with legendary investors such as Mr. Warren Buffett. With those experiences it becomes easy for the FCBE students to excel rigorous interviewing rounds better than many students from the nation’s top colleges. P.K. challenges and inspires his students to find their passion and compete directly against established players and attempt to become a World expert. The work of his students has been published in premier finance journals and won multiple best paper or outstanding research awards at national and international conferences. P.K.’s own work on financial market design is widely cited and recognized both nationally and locally. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in Washington, DC appointed him as a visiting academic scholar under the Intergovernmental Personnel Act from 2012-2014 in the SEC’s Division of Risk, Strategy and Financial Innovation – Office of Markets – to conduct special studies mandated by the U.S. Congress. Corporations such as the New York Stock Exchange, National Stock Exchange, Pinnacle Airlines, and Google Inc. have invited him in the past to conduct research or executive training programs. He is an Associate Editor of the Financial Review, the official journal of the Eastern Finance Association. He is frequently invited as a presenter or discussant at conferences organized by American Finance Association (AFA), Western Finance Association (WFA), and National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) that are led or attended by Nobel laureates. He has published his work in leading academic journals such as Journal of Finance , Journal of Financial Economics, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Financial Management, Journal of Banking and Finance, Journal of Financial Research, and Contemporary Accounting Research and served as an expert reviewer for these journals in addition to the National Science Foundation . In the local community, he has served as the President of the CFA Society of Memphis and also served as one of the Directors of the Memphis Center of International Business Education and Research (CIBER) sponsored by the U.S. Department of Education. P.K. provided strategic finance training to the not-for-profit MidSouth Minority Business Council (MMBC) members as part of FCBE’s collaboration with that institute. Outside of the college, he has instructed in the Helen Hardin Honors Program and served as a keynote speaker at the luncheons for Rotary Club of Germantown and Financial Planners Association. He also volunteers as the University’s Work in Progress Symposium evaluator, Memphis City Schools Think Show Juror, and Boy Scouts leader to help provide wholesome experiences to bright young kids. Research RESEARCH PUBLICATIONS Jain, Pankaj K., 2005, “ Financial Market Design and the Equity Premium: Electronic vs. Floor Trading ,” Journal of Finance 60, 6, 2955-2985. (Solo authored) Presented at: American Finance Association (AFA) meeting National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) Meeting Rice University; Indiana University; University of Memphis; Queens University Alfred P. Sloan Foundation: Industry Study Meetings at Georgia Tech Outstanding Paper Award in Derivatives/Microstructure at Eastern Finance Association (EFA) Meeting, Orlando, Florida Chiyachantana, Chiraphol, Pankaj K. Jain, Christine Jiang, and Robert A. Wood, 2004, “ International Evidence on Institutional Trading Behavior and Determinants of Price Impact ,” Journal of Finance , 59, 2, 865-894. Cited in 207 academic articles Elder, John, Pankaj K. Jain, and Jang-Chul Kim, 2005, “ Do Tracking Stocks Reduce Informational Asymmetries? An Analysis of Liquidity and Adverse Selection”, Journal of Financial Research 28, 2, 197-213 . Jain, Pankaj K., and Zabihollah Rezaee, 2005, “Industry-wide effects of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002”, Journal of Forensic Accounting 6, 147-162 . Chiyachantana, C.N., Pankaj K. Jain, C. Jiang, and R. Wood, 2006, Volatility Effects of Institutional Trading in Foreign Stocks, Journal of Banking and Finance 30, 8, 2199-2214 . Jain, P.K., and Z. Rezaee, 2006, “The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Capital Market Behavior: Early Evidence,” Contemporary Accounting Research 23, 3, 629-654 . Paper has 2631 SSRN Downloads Jain, Pankaj K., and Jang-Chul Kim, 2006, “ Investor Recognition, Liquidity, Returns, and Performance after Exchange Listings in the Reformed Markets ,” Financial Management 35, 2, 21-42. Presented at New York Stock Exchange Midwest Financial Association Meeting Jain, Pankaj K., 2006, "Improving Liquidity through Efficient Stock Market Structure and Operational Design" Journal of Financial Transformation 18, 151-159. Ellul, A., C. Holden, Pankaj K. Jain, and R. Jennings, 2007, “Order Dynamics: Recent Evidence from the NYSE,” Journal of Empirical Finance 14, 636–661. Presented at Pennsylvania State University 2002; Vanderbilt University 2003 New York Stock Exchange 2003 Morgan Stanley Equity Market Microstructure Research Grant, 2003 National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) Meeting 2003 in Boston Western Finance Association (WFA) Meeting 2004 in Vancouver Jain, Pankaj K., 2008, "The Profound Effects of Automation on Stock Markets Around the World", Journal of Investment Management 6, 46-54. Jain, Pankaj K., Jang-Chul Kim, and Zabihollah Rezaee, 2008, “The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Market Liquidity,” Financial Review 43, 361-382. Financial Management Association (FMA) Meeting 2003, Denver 14th Annual Conference on Accounting, 2003, Bloomington American Accounting Association Meeting (AAA) 2004, Orlando Jain, Sakshi, Pankaj K. Jain, and Zabihollah Rezaee, 2010, Stock Market Reactions to Regulatory Investigations: Evidence from Options Backdating, Research in Accounting Regulation 22, 52-57 . Spahr, R., P.K. Jain, F. Huseynov, B. Parikh, 2011, Tax Policy &amp; Macro-Finance in a Competitive Global Economy where Government is Considered as Firms’ Third Financial Stakeholder, Global Business &amp; Economics Review 14, 30-66. Jain, Chinmay, Pankaj K. Jain, and Thomas H. McInish, 2011, Everything Old Is New Again: Rule 201’s Restrictions on Short Selling will do little to Avoid Future Crises , Regulation , 34, 30-34. Detzen, Dominic, Pankaj K. Jain, Tanakorn Likitapiwat, and Rose M. Rubin, 2012, The Impact of Low Cost Airline Entry on Competition, Network Expansion, and Stock Valuations , Journal of Air Transport Management 18, 59-63. Jain, Chinmay, Pankaj K. Jain, and Thomas H. McInish, 2012, Short Selling: The Impact of SEC Rule 201, Financial Review 47, 37-64. RMA/Univ. of North Carolina Academic Forum on Securities Lending, New York 2011 Financial Management Association Meeting 2011 Midwest Finance Association Meetings 2011 Eastern Finance Association Meetings 2011 Southwestern Finance Association Meetings 2011 Mid-Atlantic Research Conference in Finance (MARC) in Villanova, Pennsylvania - Lead paper European Financial Management Association in Braga, Portugal on June 22-25, 2011 FMA European Conference in Porto, Portugal 2011 Northern Finance Association Conference 2011 R.I.S.E. - Redefining Investment Strategy Education Forum, Dayton, Ohio 2011 Financial Review’s Best Paper Award Spahr, Ronald W., Fariz Huseynov, and Pankaj K. Jain, 2012, Government as the Firm’s Third Financial Stakeholder: Impact on Capital Investment Decisions, Capital Structure, Discount Rates and Valuation, The Engineering Economist 57, 157-177. Chakravarty, Sugato, Pankaj Jain, James Upson, and Robert Wood, 2012, Clean Sweep: Informed Trading through Intermarket Sweep Orders, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (JFQA) 47, 415-435. Featured on SEC market structure website Hossain, Mahmud, Pankaj K. Jain (corresponding author), and Santanu Mitra, 2013, Partial State Ownership and Bank Stock Stability in the Asia-Pacific Region, Pacific-Basin Finance Journal 21, 914–931. Hossain, Mahmud, Santanu Mitra, and Pankaj Jain, 2013, Product Market Power and Management’s Action to Avoid Earnings Disappointment, Forthcoming in Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting . Huang, Ying Susan Elkinawy, and Pankaj Jain, 2013, Investor protection and cash holdings: Evidence from US cross-listing, Journal of Banking and Finance 37, 937-951 . American Accounting Association (AAA) Annual Meeting, Washington D.C., 2012 Global Finance Conference, Chicago 2012 University of Mississippi Western Economic Association International (WEAI) Annual Meeting, San Francisco SSRN Top 10 Download Jain, Pankaj and Qin Wang, 2013, Credit Rating Changes and Institutional Trading, Journal of Trading 8, 38-47. Jain, Archana, Pankaj Jain, Thomas McInish and Michael Mckenzie, 2013, Worldwide Reach of Short Selling Regulations, Journal of Financial Economics 109, 177-197 . Presented at US Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington, DC Financial Management Association meetings in Singapore and New York, Midwest Finance Association meeting in Chicago, Eastern Finance Association meeting in Savannah, Georgia European Financial Management Association meeting in Braga, Portugal, Northern Finance Association meeting in Vancouver, Canada, Southern Finance Association meeting in Key West, Florida University of Texas at El Paso The Rochester Institute of Technology Florida International University University of Toledo Villanova University University of Texas at San Antonio The Capital Markets Cooperative Research Centre in Sydney, Australia Huang, Ying Susan Elkinawy, and Pankaj Jain, 2014, Information Contents in Trades at Steps away from BBO: Evidence from Tokyo Stock Exchange, Journal of Financial Studies, Forthcoming. 21st Conference on Theories &amp; Practices of Securities &amp; Financial Markets, Taiwan Journal of Financial Studies’ Best Paper Award Book Chapters, Discussion Papers, and Popular Press: Jain, Pankaj K., 2003, “ Discussion of Equity trading by institutional investors: Evidence on order submission strategies by Naes &amp; Skjeltorp ,” Journal of Banking and Finance 27, 9, 1819-1821. “NYSE seeks balance between electronic, human trade arena”, Commercial Appeal , April 10, 2004. Chakrabarty, Bidisha and Pankaj K. Jain, “Are You Getting a Good Deal?, Overlooked Cost of Stock Trading”, Economic and Political Weekly , 41, 46, November 18 - November 24, 2006. Jain, Pankaj K., and Will Johnson, 2007, “Trading Technology and Stock Market Liquidity: A Global Perspective” Ch. 15 in Stock Market Liquidity publisher John Wiley and Sons Inc., 287-300. Germantown Rotary Club Speech “Optimal Portfolios of Rational Investors in a Global Context”, Shelby Sun Times , May 3, 2007. Jain, Pankaj K., “The Global Shift from Floor Trading to Electronic Trading” Ch. 03 in Forbes Stock Market Course publisher Forbes Investor Advisory Institute, A division of Forbes LLC, publisher of Forbes magazine. Jain, P. K., Jiang, C., McInish, T. H. and Taechapiroontong, N., “Informed Trading in Parallel Auction and Dealer Markets: The Case of the London Stock Exchange” in The Handbook of Trading: Strategies for Navigating and Profiting from Currency, Bond, and Stock Markets : McGraw-Hill, NYC, NY, 2010, Ch. 2, 23-38. Hossain, Mahmud, Pankaj K. Jain, and Sandra C. Mortal, A Global Perspective on the Banking Crisis and Recovery: An Analysis of Domestic vs. Foreign Banks, The Banking Crisis Handbook : Taylor and Francis-CRC Press, 2010, 251-274. Jain, Chinmay, Pankaj K. Jain, and Thomas H. McInish, 2011, Evolution of Short Selling Regulations and Trading, Handbook of Short Selling , Elsevier, Ch 05, 93-109. Jain, Chinmay, Pankaj K. Jain, and Thomas H. McInish, 2011, Naively shorting the shorts , Real Clear Markets , August 13, 2011. Jain, Pankaj K., Ajay K Mishra, and Thomas H. McInish, 2012, Identification and Valuation Implications of Financial Market Spirals, Chapter 12 Forthcoming in Rethinking Valuation and Pricing Models , publisher Elsevier. Rosenthal , Phil, “ Rosenthal: Perhaps Illinois should market its corruption : Academic study reveals 'perverse level playing field,' and besides, we need to recoup $500 million report says is lost to dishonest doings”, Chicago Tribune Business, January 30, 2013. Pagano, M., “ When corruption helps the bottom line ”, New York Times , Dealbook, January 28, 2013 WORKING PAPERS ‘Reduced Latency, Market Quality and Systemic Risk of High Frequency Trading’ by Pankaj Jain, Pawan Jain, and Thomas H. McInish The University of Mississippi seminar presentation The Kakatiya University in Turkey seminar presentation Financial Management Association doctoral consortium presentation Midwest Finance Association meeting presentation The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission brown bag seminar presentation Outstanding Paper in Investments Award 2011 by Eastern Finance Association (previous title: Order Book Characteristics and Future Price Volatility) Best Paper Award (First Prize) in 2013 Conference on Excellence in Research and Education at IIM Indore ‘Corruption’s Impact on Liquidity, Investment Flows, and Cost of Capital’ by Jain, Pankaj K., Emre Kuvvet, and Michael S. Pagano, 2012, Resubmission invited at the Financial Management after major modifications Baruch College / CUNY seminar presentation Lehigh University seminar presentation The University of Mississippi seminar presentation Texas A&amp;M University working paper series Financial Management Association conference presentation Outstanding Paper in International Finance Award 2010 by Southern Finance Association. Covered in New York Times Covered in Chicago Tribunal ‘Asymmetry in the Impact of Institutional Trades’ by Jain, Pankaj, Chiraphol Chiyachantana, Christine Jiang, and Vivek Sharma, Revise and Resubmit from Journal of Empirical Finance ‘Corporate Greed and Complex Chicanery—Splits, Accruals, and Reckless Expansions: Why Managers Choose the Path to Destruction’ by Ahmed Elnahas, Pankaj K. Jain, and Thomas H. McInish (Previous title: Reverse splits: Misfortune or Complex Shenanigans) U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). American Accounting Association (AAA) annual meeting. Double Taxation Treaties, Cross Border Equity flows, Corporate Taxes and Personal Income Taxes, by Bhavik Parikh, Pankaj Jain and Ronald Spahr Academy of International Business Annual Meeting, Washington DC Global Finance Conference Annual Meeting, Chicago Eastern Finance Association Annual Meeting, Boston Southern Finance Conference Annual Meeting,, Key West Financial Management Association, Denver European Financial Management Association, Braga, Portugal Midwest Finance Conference Annual Meeting, Chicago Southwestern Finance Association Annual Meeting, Houston M. Hossain, , P.K. Jain, and Sandra Mortal, “Regulations, Bailouts and Bank Shareholders’ Wealth: An International Analysis. American Accounting Association annual conference, San Fransisco Financial Planners Association, Memphis in May Eastern Finance Association Meetings Jain, Pankaj K., “ Institutional design &amp; liquidity on stock exchanges around the world ,” Western Finance Association (WFA) Meeting National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) Meeting Pennsylvania State University seminar presentation State University of New York, Binghamton seminar presentation HEC Montreal seminar presentation University of Georgia, Athens seminar presentation University of Miami seminar presentation University of South Carolina seminar presentation Chiyachantana C.N., Jain, Pankaj K., “Institutional Trading Frictions” National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) Meeting in Boston Mid-Atlantic Research Conference (MARC) Temple University, Philadelphia Service Associate Editor of the Financial Review, the official Journal of the Eastern Finance Association Expert Reviewer for National Science Foundation and premier academic journals Discussant at premier fiannce conferences University and College Committees Faculty Search Committee FCBE Assurance of Learning Committee College Assessment Oversight Committee Continuous Improvement Committee of Fogelman College of Business Faculty &amp; Staff Programs Degree Programs Undergraduate Finance Course Catalog Undergraduate Finance Course Descriptions Business Finance Concentration Real Estate Concentration Banking and Financial Services Concentration Professional Real Estate Certificate Finance Master’s Program Ph.D. Program Faculty &amp; Staff Research Seminars Faculty Publications News &amp; Events Cook Analytics &amp; Trading Lab Contact Us Cook Analytics &amp; Trading Lab Learn more about The Cook Analytics &amp; Trading Lab and its innovative tools to help supplement traditional classroom teaching! Seminars Keep up with the latest and greatest of the Finance industry and academic research in our upcoming seminars. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .