#http://libguides.memphis.edu/3DLab/3Dschedule
Schedule - 3D Printing @UofMLibraries - LibGuides at University of Memphis Libraries University Libraries LibGuides 3D Printing @UofMLibraries Schedule 3D Printing @UofMLibraries: Schedule Scheduling the 3D Printer Lab Welcome Schedule 3D Job Form How to Print How to Scan Tips & Tricks FAQ Software Training Training and Instruction In order to use the 3D Printers at U of M Libraries, you must complete a 1 hour training course. Click the book now button and select a 3D training session on the left side of the screen under &quot;events&quot; Powered by Appointment-Plus Schedule the Lab Reserving the 3D Lab The 3D Lab may be scheduled up to 4 Hours per week by students at the University of Memphis To Reserve a printer click on the &quot;book now&quot; button and select one of the two 3D printers (3D Lab or Learning Commons) Powered by Appointment-Plus Regular Semester Hours The 3D Lab closes 1 hour before the library. Appointments must end by that time. For current library hours please visit Appointments must be made at least 24 Hours in advance Lab is available during Summer and Winter Break on limited schedule. Please contact the library for details. Lab Calendar 3D LAB HOURS The 3D Lab closes 1 hour before the library. Appointments must end by that time. For current library hours please visit The Crews Center for Entrepreneurship provides an outlet for advanced 3D users. If you have been through the training and printed at least twice in the University Libraries Technology Sandbox, then you are welcome to use the Crews facility. Please reserve use for jobs in excess of 5 hours. &lt;&lt; Previous: Welcome Next: 3D Job Form &gt;&gt; Last Updated: Nov 10, 2015 3:51 PM URL: Print Page Login to LibApps . Report a problem . Subjects: Formal & Applied Sciences , Help/How-To Guides Tags: 3d , 3d scanner , cad , computer , computer science , emerging technology , engineering , how to , lab , printing , science , sciences , stem , technology , web of science , workshops