#http://www.memphis.edu/cs/about/accolades_faculty.php
Faculty Accolades - Computer Science - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Computer Science About Future Students Current Students Research People Contact Hiring About Department at a Glance Message from the Chair Faculty Accolades Student Accolades Sponsors Home Computer Science About Faculty Accolades Faculty Accolades Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta received the University of Memphis Willard R. Sparks Eminent Faculty Award in 2012, the highest honor bestowed upon a faculty member. Prof. Dasgupta has also been recognized extensively by the College of Arts and Sciences, including a 2007-2010 Dunavant Professorship, 2006 CASDRA Distinguished Research Award, and 1999 Early Career Research Award. Prof. Scott Fleming received a 2015 Early Career Research Award from the College of Arts and Sciences. Prof. Stan Franklin , former W. Harry Feinstone Interdisciplinary Research Professor, received the University of Memphis Williard R. Sparks Eminent Faculty Award in 1997. In addition, Prof. Franklin held a 2000-2003 Dunavant Professorship from the College of Arts and Sciences and received a 1994 Meritorious Faculty Award from the College of Arts and Sciences. Prof. Max Garzon received a 2002 Meritorious Faculty Award from the College of Arts and Sciences. Prof. Santosh Kumar , currently the Lillian &amp; Morrie Moss Chair of Excellence in Computer Science, was selected as one of the 2010 "Brilliant Ten" by Popular Science magazine. He was also a 2010 First Tennessee Entrepreneurship and Innovation Fellow, and he received a 2008 Early Career Research Award and a 2012 Distinguished Research Award from the College of Arts and Sciences. In 2013 the Alumni Association recognized him with its Distinguished Research Award in Science, Engineering, and Mathematics. Mr. Kriangsiri Malasri received a 2012 Thomas W. Briggs Foundation Excellence in Teaching Award, the University's premier award for commitment to undergraduate education. He also received the 2013 Alumni Association Distinguished Advising Award, 2014 College of Arts and Sciences Award for Teaching Excellence, 2014 Excellence in Teaching Award from the National Society of Leadership and Success, and 2015 College of Arts and Sciences Award for Advising Excellence. Prof. Lan Wang received a 2010 Early Career Research Award from the College of Arts and Sciences. About Department at a Glance Message from the Chair Faculty Accolades Student Accolades Sponsors News &amp; Events Weekly colloquium talks and other events Career Opportunities Internship information and job postings for students Degree Programs Information on our degree and certificate programs Courses Recent syllabi for our courses Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/26/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .