#http://www.memphis.edu/hypostyle/tour_hall/
Tour the Hall - Hypostyle - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Karnak Great Hypostyle Hall Project About Hypostyle Meaning &amp; Function Reliefs &amp; Inscriptions The Project Historical Tour of the Hypostyle Hall Entrance Great Columns Smaller Columns Second Pylon Ramesses II War Scenes North Gateway Seti I War Scenes Clerestory and Roof Third Pylon Loose Blocks Interior Wall Scenes Constructing the Hypostyle Hall Home Hypostyle Tour A Historical Tour of the Hypostyle Hall Touring the Hypostyle Hall Most visitors to the temple of Amun-Re at Karnak will enter from the west, passing along the avenue of ram-headed sphinxes and between the two massive towers flanking a great gateway. Serving as Karnak Temple's formal entrance and being the outermost of a series of double-towered gates called pylons, this impressive structure is known today as the First Pylon. View of the avenue of ram-headed sphinxes leading to the First Pylon. Beyond this portal, as visitors look straight across a large courtyard filled with smaller monuments, they will see another, more ruined edifice, which is the Second Pylon. View of the entrance through the 2nd Pylon leading to the Great Hypostyle Hall. Behind it, however, instead of another court, twin rows of giant columns crowned by open papyrus-bloom capitals suddenly appear beyond the doorway: the central nave of the Great Hypostyle Hall. View of the central nave of the Hypostyle Hall with visiting tourists. Even amid the labyrinthine grandeur of the rest of Karnak, countless visitors never fail to be astonished by this vast forest of giant columns. Hundreds of tourists, following their guides or milling about on their own, cannot help but crane their necks and look up to the dizzying heights of the column capitals, walls, and the mammoth window grilles and architraves of the clerestory roof. So gargantuan are these thickets of columns— and so overwhelming their endless successions of kings, gods and myriads of hieroglyphs— that tourists often wander about wholly befuddled, unable to take any of it in. Yet despite their bewilderment, they will always remember the forest of columns, second only to the Great Pyramids, as the most stupendous monument in the land of the Pharaohs. Historical Tour of the Hypostyle Hall Entrance Great Columns Smaller Columns Second Pylon Ramesses II War Scenes North Gateway Seti I War Scenes Clerestory and Roof Third Pylon Loose Blocks Interior Wall Scenes Constructing the Hypostyle Hall Welcome to the Karnak Great Hypostyle Hall Project! In antiquity, Karnak was the largest religious sanctuary in Egypt's imperial capital of Thebes (modern Luxor) and was home to the god Amun-Re, king of the Egyptian pantheon. About the Architecture Who designed the Hypostyle Hall and why did they do it? Read about how Sety I and his architects built this magnificent structure between two pylon gateways which once served as the front entrance to Karnak Temple. Tour the Hall The Hypostyle Hall is thousands of miles away -- but you can tour entire structure without leaving your seat! Click here to begin a virtual tour of the historic Hypostyle Hall. Epigraphy Methods "Why don't you just take a photograph?" Why traditional photography is not the most scientifically reliable method of recording. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/7/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .