#http://www.memphis.edu/veterans/pdf/vrc_factsheet1415.pdf
The University of Memphis Veter- ans Resource Center (VRC) sup- ports the successful transition from military life to civilian life by providing services that en- hance the academic and personal experience for military - related student populations. The VRC partners with Veterans Ed- u c a t i o n a l B e n e f i t s a n d C e r t i f i c a t i o n (VEBC) who assists student veterans with processing and receiving their Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) educational benefits. We also provide referrals for: Housing Health and counseling services Career services Disability resources Tutoring services The services and programs of the Veterans Resource Center are de- signed to assist and support students who have served in any branch of the United States Armed Forces, wheth- er during wartime or peace. The VRC also serves the needs of spouses and dependents of service members, and active - duty service members. Over 800* students, both veterans and dependents of veterans, are cur- rently attending our institution. (*Fall 2014) The VRC offers an exclusive campus space where student veterans and other military - related students can relax and study with each other. The comfortable lounge area includes amenities such as a couch, chairs, flat screen TV, a microwave and mini - fridge and a large table study- ing or meeting with others. Computers and a printer are availa- ic use, and all are equipped with CAC Smart Card readers. The VRC provides educational resource information and programs in support of student veterans to assist them toward graduation. College credit for education, experi- ence, skills, and training Early registration for veterans Prior learning assessments Professional development seminars Monthly faculty presentations Open to all student veterans at the U of M, this monthly outreach service allows stu- dent veterans to register with the Memphis VA Medical Center. Representatives visit the campus to provide information about: VA enrollment process, Health benefits & medical appoint- ments Claim processing Education benefits VA loans Employment workshops Numerous co - curricular engagement activities designed specifically for vet- eran and military students include: Veterans Day celebrations 9/11 Remembrance programs Veterans athletic appreciation events Veteran guest speakers Intramural sports participation Green Zone is a campus - wide voluntary training initiative designed to promote a positive and supportive campus environ- ment for our student veterans. A "Green Zone" is a location recognized by student veterans as a safe place. After complet- ing a training session, faculty, staff and student volunteers are able to identify themselves as one who is knowledgeable and aware of the challenges that veterans face, and one who is willing to assist the student veteran. All Green Zone volunteers agree to display Green Zone stickers, table tents or other medium that will identify their office or environment as a "safe place" for our mili- tary students. The Student Veteran Mentorship Program is an initiative designed to promote a successful transition from the mili- tary to the academic environment through a peer - to - peer mentoring relationship. Current University of Memphis student veterans are paired with new/incoming student veterans. The mission of the Student Veterans Organization (SVO) at The University of Memphis is to create a so- cial and informational organization to promote the aca- demic and future success of students that have served or are serving in the Armed Forces. The SVO also works to ensure student veteran success by providing opportunities for building lifelong relation- ships, serving as advocates for the needs of the student veteran, and encouraging school spirit and integration into the campus life and culture. Student Veteran Mentors are responsible for: Communicating with new student veterans during the New Student Veterans Orientation Meeting with each student individually Encouraging SVO involvement for leadership develop- ment and growth Providing student veterans with campus and commu- nity resource information Encouraging their mentee to seek out opportunities to connect with business and community leaders regard- ing their career interest(s). Your generosity helps underwrite military and veter- an student - focused programs and scholarships; sup- ports student life at the U of M.; and enhances the engagement and involvement of our student veter- ans. Give Online: Give by Mail: Department 238 The U of M Foundation P.O. Box 1000 Memphis, TN 38148 - 0001 Give via Phone: Call 901.678.3953 Mission To support a transition from military life to civilian life. The Veterans Resource Center is committed to providing veterans, active - duty, National Guard, reservists and qualified dependents with the services necessary to pur- sue their academic and personal interests, integrate into the campus community and ultimately ensure a success- ful experience.