#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/news/memphismattersoctober2015.php
Memphis Matters - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About News E-News Magazine Update Info Class Notes University News Home UMAA News Memphis Matters Lambuth True Blue Day Come back home to Lambuth for True Blue Day 2015 on Saturday, October 24 . Blue Lantern Tour Go back in time with the Student Ambassador Board to discover the mysteries &amp; meet the characters that make up our campus history on Friday, October 30 . Young Alumni True Blue 5k Join Young Alumni for the annual race around the UofM Campus on Sunday, November 1 . Register today! Call for Nominations: Distinguished Teaching Awards The UofM Alumni Association will honor four outstanding faculty with the presentation of the Distinguished Teaching Award in the Spring. Year of Service The year may be coming to a close but there's still time to log your hours for the Inaugural Year of Service. Learn how your service hours may provide scholarships for students! University News Stay up-to-date on student and faculty accomplishments, college updates and upcoming events. Club and Chapter News Mark your calendar for these upcoming Alumni Association events including: Tiger Football Watch Parties, Blue Lantern Tour, FCBE Alumni Day, Pouncer's Pals Walk Around the Field and more! Benefit Spotlight A Message from Liberty Mutual Insurance Did you know University of Memphis alumni could save hundreds of dollars on Liberty Mutual Auto and Home Insurance? Let the good times roar - homecoming 2015 Schedule of Events: "Let the Good Times Roar" Homecoming Parade &amp; Pep Rally Friday, November 6, 5:30 pm UofM Main Campus " Laissez Les Bons Temps Rugir! " Enter your organization to participate in the "Mardi Gras" Homecoming Parade and help us light the night by incorporating your best glow-in-the-dark attire and float decorations. Share the fun with the crowd by throwing neon goodies! Immediately following the Parade, join us on the Student Plaza for a True Blue Pep Rally. Click here to register for the parade. For more information, contact kjfalk@memphis.edu or at 901.678.2905. True Blue Tailgate Saturday, November 7, Time TBD Tiger Lane - Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium Join the Alumni Association, Tiger Scholarship Fund, M Club and the Athletic Department for a tailgate in Tiger Lane. The cost is $8 for alumni members and $10 for non-members and includes food and drinks. For more information, contact alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.2586. Homecoming Football Game: Memphis Tigers vs. Navy Midshipman Saturday, November 7, Time TBD Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium Join us as the Memphis Tigers take on Navy for the first time in our program's history. Game time is still to be determined. Click here to get tickets to the game. Additional Homecoming Events: Young Alumni True Blue 5k Sunday, November 1, 2:00 pm UofM Campus Kick off Homecoming Week with the 9th Annual Young Alumni True Blue 5k! Click here to register. Registration fee: $25 through October 25 | $30 October 26 - November 1. For more information, contact m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461. Student Activities Council Comedy Show Monday, November 2, 7:00 pm Rose Theatre The Memphis community is invited to this free comedy show, sponsored by Student Activities Council. Comedy artist will be announced Tuesday, October 20. Class of 1965 Reunion &amp; Golden Homecoming Reception Wednesday, November 4 The Alumni Association and Half Century Club invites all graduates of 50 years or more to a Golden Homecoming Dinner honoring the Class of '65. Guests may enjoy a complimentary bus tour of campus beginning at 2:30 pm followed by a wine reception, dinner and induction ceremony at 5:30 pm. The cost is $20 per person. For more information, contact semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043. Bluff City Bash Friday, November 6, immediately following Homecoming Parade &amp; Pep Rally Alumni Mall The Memphis community is invited to this free concert, sponsored by Student Activities Council. Performing artist will be announced Tuesday, October 20. Memphis Tigers Basketball Exhibition Game vs. LeMoyne-Owen Friday, November 6, 8:00 pm FedEx Forum Cheer on our Men's Basketball Team after the Homecoming Parade and Pep Rally! Pouncer's Pals Walk Around the Field Saturday, November 7, Time TBD Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium Members of Pouncer's Pals are welcome to walk around the field with their special guest before the start of the Homecoming game against Navy. Time is still to be determined. Check back with us for more information! Questions? Contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Herff College of Engineering Alumni Chapter Homecoming Tailgate Saturday, November 7, Time TBA Tiger Lane - Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium (Tiger Lane spots E74 &amp; E75) Join Engineering Alumni for a tailgate before our Tigers take on the Navy Midshipmen! For more information, contact semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043. PMBA Alumni Club Homecoming Tailgate Saturday, November 7, Time TBA Tiger Lane - Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium Join PMBA Alumni for a tailgate before our Tigers take on the Navy Midshipmen! For more information, contact semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043. Lambuth Campus Come Back Home to Lambuth True Blue Day 2015 You are invited to "COME BACK HOME" and gather with former faculty, staff and friends on the Lambuth campus. During the day, you and your family will have a variety of fun things to do on campus. Start the day at 10:00 am with donuts and coffee with former faculty and staff. You may purchase new t-shirts or old Lambuth gear to help raise funds for student scholarships and the Heritage Room. Participate in a discussion with Vice Provost Niles Reddick, attend Planetarium shows, walk the campus and learn about the Lambuth history from our new Student Ambassadors and enjoy a complimentary lunch with friends. The Outstanding Alumni Awards Program will begin at 1:00 pm. Join us to induct the Class of 1965 into the Half Century Club and honor Distinguished Friends of Lambuth, Jeanne and Henry Varnell . In addition, Charles "Pepper" Bray will receive the Outstanding Service to Lambuth Award and the Lambuth True Blue Tradition Award will be presented to Coach Vic Wallace . Later in the day, you may participate in the reopening of the Health &amp; Wellness Building at 3:00 pm, followed by the rededication of the basketball court to Pepper Bray. We hope you will be a part of this fun-filled day! For more information or to RSVP, please contact k.goldsmith@memphis.edu . Blue Lantern tour The Student Ambassador Board takes you back in time to learn the mysteries of the UofM and to meet the characters that make up our campus history. The first-ever Blue Lantern Tour will take place on Friday, October 30 , at 7:00 pm on the UofM Campus . This event will feature lantern-lit tours around the campus. The tours begin in the Student Plaza . Guests will have the opportunity to "meet" President Mynders and his ghostly daughter, the Memphis State 8, Elma Roane and many others. In addition to the tours, there will be entertainment, refreshments, music and activities as part of Parent &amp; Family Weekend. For more information, contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Young Alumni true blue 5k Kick off Homecoming Week with the 9th Annual Young Alumni True Blue 5k on Sunday, November 1 at 2:00 pm on the UofM Campus . All runners, walkers, alumni, students, and friends are invited to enjoy a True Blue race course through campus and then a post-race celebration like only the Memphis Tigers can do it. All proceeds from the race will support the work of Young Alumni and its commitment to building a stronger University and a stronger city of Memphis. Registration fee: $25 through October 25 | $30 October 26 - November 1. Click here to register today. Show Your Support! Young Alumni is currently accepting sponsorships for the True Blue 5K! Click here to learn more about sponsorship opportunities. For more information, contact m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461. 'Like' the True Blue 5k on Facebook! Distinguished teaching awards Nominations Nominations are now being accepted for the 2016 Distinguished Teaching Awards. Please submit all nominations by Friday, November 20, 2015. Click here to submit a nomination . The Award Every Spring, the University of Memphis Alumni Association honors four outstanding faculty with the presentation of the Distinguished Teaching Award. Recipients receive individual plaques and awards, and their photographs are displayed in the Administration Building next to the large plaque honoring all those who have previously received the award. The Distinguished Teaching Award is funded and sponsored by the University of Memphis Alumni Association. Selection Process The selection process begins with nominations by UofM full-time faculty, students, and alumni. The Distinguished Teaching Award Committee, which includes former award winners, will select a number of nominees for further consideration. The Committee will also request letters of evaluation from each finalist's administrative head. Then the Distinguished Teaching Award Committee will review all pertinent data, including the student evaluations of all courses taught within the past three years, to select the award winners. To review the DTA Selection guidelines and procedures, click here . Year of service In honor of Dr. M. David Rudd's inaugural year as President, he has challenged the campus community, student organizations and alumni to engage in service projects, focusing on the opportunity to give back to our community. The goal of the Year of Service is to provide 500,000 combined hours of service to Memphis, Jackson, Tenn., and surrounding communities by the end of the fall semester. In conjunction with the Year of Service initiative, the University of Memphis has established a matching goal to secure at least $500,000 in need-based scholarships so that it can assist the brightest students, including those with financial need. Scholarships may be directed to any college, school, or department and may carry a person's name, the name of an individual to honor or remember, or the name of a business or organization. Click here to log your service hours. University News Online Resource Ranks UofM Among Best Online Colleges AffordableCollegsOnline.org has included the University of Memphis in its 2015-2016 list of Best Online Colleges. The resource for online education and college affordability information ranks the UofM No. 19 on the list. Read the full story here . UofM Ranked Among Top PhD Programs in Business The University of Memphis has been recognized as having one of the top doctoral programs in business in a recent ranking by gradschoolhub.com . The UofM is the only university in Tennessee to make the list. Editors selected programs based on admission rates lower than 50 percent, Carnegie classification, faculty citations, specialization options and tuition. In addition to the UofM, universities on the list include Harvard, Duke, Stanford, Washington University in St. Louis, the University of California at Berkeley and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Read the full story here . Washington Monthly Names UofM Among Top National Universities The 2015 Washington Monthly College Guide ranks the University of Memphis No. 40 among its listing of national universities. The UofM is ranked fifth in the category of service staff, courses and financial aid support. Washington Monthly rates schools based on their contribution to the public good in three broad categories: Social Mobility (recruiting and graduating low-income students), Research (producing cutting-edge scholarship and PhDs) and Service (encouraging students to give something back to their country). Read the full story here . Tigers Abroad Photo Contest The 2015 Tigers Abroad Photo Contest is now open! UofM Students, Alumni, Faculty, Staff who have had a recent international experience or International/Exchange Students at the UofM, may submit a photo that conveys an experience interacting with the host community. There will be 1st, 2nd, 3rd place prizes for all categories: 1st: $100 Visa Gift Card 2nd: $75 Visa Gift Card 3rd: $50 Visa Gift Card The deadline to submit an entry is October 23, 2015. Click here for more information. Club &amp; Chapter News True Blue Tailgate Join the Alumni Association on Tiger Lane for a tailgate before our Tigers take on Ole Miss on Saturday, October 17 . Tailgate begins at 9:00 am . Kick-off is at 11:00 am. Mark your calendars for each of the remaining True Blue Tailgates: Saturday, October 31, Time TBA Saturday, November 7, Time TBA Saturday, November 28, Time TBA Tailgate begins two hours prior to kick-off. For more information, contact alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.2586. Football Watch Parties Memphis Tigers vs. Ole Miss Rebels | Saturday, October 17 Atlanta: 12:00 pm ET, Mazzy's Sports Bar &amp; Grill (7160 Jimmy Carter Boulevard) Chicago: 11:00 am CT, Fatpour Tap Works (2005 W. Division Street) Denver: 10:00 am MT, Blake St. Tavern (2301 Blake Street) New Orleans: 11:00 am CT, Buffalo Wild Wings (3434 Veterans Memorial Boulevard) New York: 12:00 pm ET, Rogue Bar &amp; Grill (757 6th Avenue) St. Louis: 11:00 am CT, Buffalo Wild Wings (1210 Strassner Drive) Washington, D.C.: 12:00 pm ET, BlackFinn (1620 I Street NW) For more information, contact kjfalk@memphis.edu or 901.678.2905. University College Alumni Chapter The next University College Alumni Chapter Board Meeting will be held on Tuesday, October 20 , at 5:45 pm at the Alumni Center (635 Normal Street). For more information, contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Parent of the Year UofM students are invited to nominate parents or guardians whose lives have been an inspiration to their student and others as the 2015 Parent of the Year. Winners must be able to participate in the Football Game on Saturday, October 31 and the Homecoming Parade and Pep Rally on Friday, November 6 . Two game tickets will be provided for the game on October 31. The deadline for submissions is 4:00 pm on Tuesday, October 20 . Nominators will be notified if their nominee was selected as the winner. Submit a nomination. Band Alumni Chapter Mark your calendars! Bandmasters will be held on Saturday, October 24 at the Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium . Click here to register your team. Spectator fee is $10 for adults, $5 for students. Children under 6 are free. For more information about the Band Alumni Chapter, contact kjfalk@memphis.edu or 901.678.2905. Lambuth Alumni Come Back Home to Lambuth True Blue Day 2015 on October 24 . Click here for more information. Memphis Pom Alumni Chapter Join the Memphis Pom Alumni Chapter for the Inaugural Memphis Pom Legacy Dance Competition. The competition will be held on Saturday, October 24 at 3:30 pm in the Elma Roane Field House (495 Zach Curlin Street). Click here to learn more and download a team or solo registration form. To learn more about the Memphis Pom Alumni Chapter, contact m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461. Are you a Memphis Pom alumna and interested in dancing between the third and fourth quarter at the Homecoming Game on November 7 ? To learn more and reserve your spot, please contact m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461. UMAR Join UMAR for a tour of the Community Health Building on Thursday, October 29 , at 10:00 am . Lunch will follow at Las Delicias (4002 Park Avenue). For more information, contact semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043. Student Ambassador Board The Student Ambassador Board takes you back in time to learn the mystery and to meet the characters that make up our campus history. The first-ever Blue Lantern Tour will take place on Friday, October 30 , at 7:00 pm on the UofM Campus. This event will feature lantern-lit tours around the campus. Guests will have the opportunity to "meet" President Mynders and his ghostly daughter, the Memphis State 8, Elma Roane and many others. In addition to the tours, there will be entertainment, refreshments, music and activities as part of Parent &amp; Family Weekend. SAB is now collecting images of veterans and thank-you cards from the University and the Memphis community to display on our Honor Wall on Veterans Day . Photos may be submitted to jpsavell@memphis.edu or dropped by the Alumni Center at 635 Normal Street. All photos will be displayed on the Honor Wall for Veterans Day. For more information about SAB, contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Young Alumni Kick off Homecoming Week with the Ninth Annual Young Alumni True Blue 5k on Sunday, November 1 , at 2:00 pm on the UofM campus . Click here to register . Registration fee: $25 through October 25 | $30 October 26 - November 1. For more information on Young Alumni, contact m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461 . Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law Alumni Chapter The Law Alumni Chapter will host a Judicial Reception honoring the 2015 Graduates of the School of Law and the Federal, State, and Local Judiciaries on Wednesday, November 4 , from 5:30 pm-7:00 pm in the Gordon Ball Scenic Reading Room - 4th floor Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law (1 N. Front Street). For more information, contact m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461. Fogelman College of Business and Economics Alumni Chapter Join us for FCBE Alumni Day on Wednesday, November 4 at the UofM Holiday Inn . Registration begins at 11:00 am . Honoring: Outstanding Young Alumnus Brett Norman (IMBA '05) | CEO/Founder AgSmarts, Inc. Outstanding Alumnus David Wedaman (BBA '80) | Chairman and CEO, ReTrans, Inc. Distinguished Friend of the College Charles McVean | Chairman and CEO, McVean Trading &amp; Investments, LLC with Keynote Speaker Donald E. Godwin (MS '70) | Trial Lawyer, former Lead Counsel for Halliburton Click here to download a sponsorship form. The cost is $65 per person or $600 per table of 10. RSVP by November 2 to semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043. College of Arts &amp; Sciences Alumni Chapter Join the College of Arts &amp; Sciences Alumni for their next Board Meeting on Thursday, November 5 , at 5:00 pm at the Alumni Center (635 Normal Street). For more information, contact m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461. Homecoming 2015 Homecoming Week 2015 is November 1-November 7 . Click here to view a full schedule of Homecoming events! Pouncer's Pals The UofM Student Ambassador Board invites Pouncer's Pals to a Blue Lantern Tour on Friday, October 30 , at 6:30 pm on the UofM campus where they will go back in time to learn about the mysteries and characters that make up our campus history. Pals and family may trick-or-treat, play games &amp; enjoy refreshments and snacks. For more information, contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Celebrate Homecoming with Pouncer! Mark your calendars for Pouncer's Pals Walk Around the Field on Saturday, November 7 . All Pals and one guest are invited to walk around the football field during the pre-game show. Each Pal will receive two game tickets with RSVP. Game time TBA. More information to follow. Calling all Tiger fans, ages 0-12! Pouncer's Pals is an exclusive club designed for little Tiger fans. Click here to learn more and sign your children up today! Members receive quarterly activity packets and exclusive events. For more information contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Tiger Troops Join Tiger Troops and The Student Ambassador Board for Veterans Day on Wednesday, November 11 . A guest speaker will kick-off the program in the UC Theatre at 12:30 pm. A panel of Veteran guest speakers will speak about their war experiences. Immediately following, the UofM ROTC will lead the Veterans Day March. Activities and photo opportunities will be available for students, faculty, staff and alumni. An Honor Wall with thousands of hand-written notes of gratitude to our active troops will be displayed on the Alumni Mall. Following the Veterans Day activities, these postcards will be taken down and mailed to active troops, veterans and wounded warriors. Click here to purchase your Veterans Day t-shirt! A portion of the proceeds from this shirt will benefit the Dr. M. David Rudd Fund for the benefit of U.S. Military Veterans and special programming on the UofM campus for veterans and ROTC members. As part of Veterans Day, Tiger Troops will also be collecting items for the "Tiger Gear for Tiger Troops" service drive. Please donate any care package items, toiletries and magazines. Registered Student Organizations (RSOs) will have the opportunity to set up individual care package stations on the Alumni Mall during Veterans Day events. The RSO with the most items collected will receive a special prize. Once all items are collected, they will be shipped to bases for the troops and their families. If you are unable to attend Veterans Day and would still like to drop off care package items, please bring them to the Alumni Center (635 Normal Street) by 4:30 pm on November 11. For more information regarding Veterans Day or Tiger Troops, please contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119 Midday Moves Midday Moves is hosting an ROTC Challenge for Veterans Day on Wednesday, November 11 , at 12:30 pm on the Alumni Mall . Alumni, faculty, staff and students are invited to participate. There will be a tug-o-war contest where teams of six may compete to become the Veterans Day ROTC Challenge Champions and take home the Bald Eagle trophy. True Blue Pre-Game Party in Houston, Texas Join the Alumni Association for a pre-game party before your Memphis Tigers Football Team takes on the Houston Cougars on Saturday, November 14 at University of Houston Alumni Center (3100 Cullen Boulevard, Houston, TX). Pre-Game Party will begin two hours prior to kick-off. Game time TBA. Complimentary snacks will be provided. Cash bar available. More information to follow. Hispanic Alumni Council Please continue to support the HAC Scholarship Fund! HAC awarded their first scholarships at the Hispanic Heritage Month Opening Ceremony. Congratulations to the winners: Rocio Agundis, Bessy Jimenez and Paola Carrion! benefit spotlight A Message from Liberty Mutual "Liberty Mutual has partnered with the University of Memphis Alumni Association to offer alumni exclusive savings on auto and home insurance. That means you get quality coverage, expert advice and personalized service at a special discounted rate. You could also enjoy valuable and unique benefits, including Better Car Replacement™, Accident Forgiveness, Home Protector Plus™, and our Multi-Policy Discount." Click here to learn more and get a free quote from Liberty Mutual. UofM Alumni Association members receive great discounts and benefits year round. View a list of membership benefits here . For more information contact the Alumni Association at alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.ALUM. Join Now Interested in joining the Alumni Association? Click here to learn more and join now! News E-News Magazine Update Info Class Notes University News Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .