#http://www.memphis.edu/cas/staff-resources/
College of Arts &amp; Sciences Staff Resources - CAS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. College of Arts &amp; Sciences About Departments Research Scholarships Students Resources News Staff Resources About Staff Performance Appraisals Employee Relations and Engagement Deans Outstanding Employee Award Faculty Hires in workForum Approving the Interview Pool Submitting the Hiring Proposal Concluding the Hire Home CAS Staff Staff Performance Appraisal Process Annual performance appraisals for non-exempt staff are due on February 28. Annual performance appraisals for exempt staff are due on March 30. The instructions and link to the on-line performance appraisal form are located on the Employee Relations and Engagement website at . Click on the topics below to read performance appraisal tips. Why the performance appraisal process is important The performance appraisal Informs the employee about the quality of his or her job performance Clarifies goals and expectations as job responsibilities and procedures change Provides official documentation of communications between employee and supervisor May be used by internal and external offices during the separation process Tracking employee accomplishments throughout the year A record of accomplishments and performance issues should be kept by both the employee and supervisor Record keeping should be a year long process Supervisors should engage the employees’ participation in setting goals and developmental opportunities Before the evaluation, supervisors should ask employees to submit a list of accomplishments achieved throughout the year and goals for the upcoming year Composing the evaluation narrative Try to avoid using the same comments as the previous year Be specific --use concrete examples both for praise and for areas needing improvement Recommendations for improvement will be received better if stated in a positive manner Remember to review goals set during the previous evaluation period and address progress towards those goals Creating an appropriate environment for the face-to-face meeting Select a neutral space that provides a comfortable, non-threatening setting Move to a conference room or other quiet area to avoid distractions such as ringing phones and walk-in traffic Be flexible--allow the employee to select the time and place for the meeting Combine the evaluation with a lunch or a walk around campus Incorporating goal-setting into the evaluation process Goal-setting should be an ongoing process throughout the year Encourage the employee to set individual goals Goals should be realistic (achievable) and limited in number Use the face-to-face meeting to formalize what the employee and supervisor can do to develop employee growth Promote professional develop by identifying training and meetings the employee should attend Utilize the Performance Management Worksheet to document expectations Keeping the employee focused on the important message instead of obsessing over the scores Positive feedback should be addressed first, then discuss where improvements are needed Be prepared to provide an explanation for a questionable score Award the appropriate score based on the employee’s performance Avoid the ‘halos and horns’ syndrome by referring to the documentation accumulated over the year rather than just what happened most recently The supervisor and employee should decide which categories of the evaluation are most important Delivering suggestions for improvement effectively Pay attention to your phrasing--use non-threatening words Use a collaborative approach to problem-solving Be sensitive to generational differences in how employees may hear recommendations for improvement Use encouraging comments in your written appraisal and the face-to-face meeting Handling someone who gets upset and emotional during an evaluation meeting Remain in control of the meeting Appropriate humor can sometimes defuse a tense situation Stop and reschedule if the employee is too distraught to continue Staff Resources About Staff Performance Appraisals Employee Relations and Engagement Deans Outstanding Employee Award Faculty Hires in workForum Approving the Interview Pool Submitting the Hiring Proposal Concluding the Hire Apply now for an Undergraduate Degree in the College of Arts &amp; Sciences Pursue your dream of having a degree, broaden your career choices and gain the confidence you need to succeed! The College offers Master's and Doctoral Degrees Are you interested in a new profession? Would you like to enhance the knowledge and experience you already possess? Community Engagement We are committed to teaching and serving the Memphis and Mid-South community through our programs and events. Contact Us Dean's Office Contacts, Advising, Department Chairs... Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .