#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbeusso/pdfs/forms/fcbe_appointment_plus_instructions.pdf
1 Revision Date: July 27, 2015 114 Fogelman Administration Building The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 G etting Started with Appointment - Plus Use these instructions to help you make your first appointment with ou r new online appointment system , or click HERE to go to our site. 1. Go to the Undergraduate Student Services website: w.memphis.edu/fcbeusso/index.php 2. Click on the left side of the page. 3. 4. If you are a first time user of this system click the Create a n Account button. The screen below will be displayed. Enter all information. Click on the Create Account button after all information is entered correctly. You are now registered fo r Appointment - Plus . 2 Revision Date: July 27, 2015 5. Returning users should Login with your UUID#. Please us this format: UXXXXXXXX. 6. Select Major. Go to the Select Major box. 7. Once you select your major, select your advisor . 8. Select Date. When you select your advisor , a calendar wi ll appear. Click the arrow on the right side of the box and select your Business Major from the list of majors. For Click a date to make an appointment. In this example, 8 through 12 are all white , so they can be clicked. Login with your UUID# here. Please include the U. 3 Revision Date: July 27, 2015 9. Select Appointment Time. available appointment times for that day as well as other days that week . Chose what best fits your schedule. 10. Enter Required Information . When you have chosen your a ppointment time, your screen should look something like this. You will have the option to receive a reminder via text message . Enter your mobile phone i nform ation If you would like to receive the text reminder. When you have entered all information, c lick 4 Revision Date: July 27, 2015 11. When you click the Finalize Appointment button , you will see your appointment information and a message similar to the one below. 12. Canceling Your Appointment. important that you cancel your appointment. When you cancel your appointment now or at a later time, y ou will receive a message like the one below. 13. The next time you use the system you will select Login and enter your UUID# the same way you did the first time you used the system. You can cancel your appointment by clicking the blue cancel link. Click OK to make your appointment time available for another student. You can log back in to Appointments Plus at a later time to reschedule your appointment. 5 Revision Date: July 27, 2015 Appointment - Plus is Available 24/7