#http://www.memphis.edu/bitm/faculty/brianjanz.php
Brian Janz - BIT - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Business Information and Technology Welcome About Admissions Programs Courses Faculty Research FCBE Faculty Lloyd Brooks Judith Brown Jasbir Dhaliwal Mark Gillenson Wade M Jackson Brian Janz Bill Kettinger Naveen Kumar Richard Kumi Euntae "Ted" Lee Jong Seok Lee Robin Poston Sandra Richardson Margaret Schultz Judith Simon Thomas Stafford Chen Zhang Home BIT Faculty Brian Janz Brian Janz Department of Management Information Systems Phone (901) 678-5526 Email bdjanz@memphis.edu Fax Office 201E FedEx Institute of Technology Office Hours by appointment About Brian Janz Dr. Janz is a Professor of Business Information and Technology and is an Associate Director for the FedEx Center for Supply Chain Management in the FedEx Institute of Technology at the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics at The University of Memphis. In addition, he is the co-founder of the University's Center for Managing Emerging Technology, and recently served as the Director for the Fogelman College's Executive Education program. Brian's research has been published in book chapters as well as many academic and practitioner journals as including MIS Quarterly, Decision Science, Journal of MIS, Personnel Psychology, Journal of Database Management, Journal of Information Technology Management, Information and Management, Journal of Global IT Management, Cycle Time Research, Journal of Strategic Performance Measurement, and the Journal of Education for MIS. In addition, Dr. Janz serves on the editorial review boards of numerous journals. Dr. Janz has over 30 years of experience in the information systems field working for The University of Minnesota, IBM, Honeywell, and General Motors, as well as consulting with several Fortune 500 companies and governmental agencies. Brian is sought out by these organizations to conduct consulting projects, educational and leadership programs, as well as to deliver keynote speeches. Brian did his bachelor's work in electrical engineering at both the University of Wisconsin and the University of Minnesota. He earned an MBA in strategic management and a Ph.D. in MIS from the Carlson School of Management at the University of Minnesota. Education Doctor of Philosophy, University of Minnesota Master of Business Administration, University of Minnesota Bachelor of Science, University of Minnesota Interests Research Interests: Human-centered design; Knowledge management; Technology use and adoption in healthcare; Issues related to systems development: teamwork, cooperative and collaborative structures; Technology in the supply chain Teaching interests : Creativity, Innovation, and Design; Systems Analysis and Design; Information Systems in the Global Enterprise Selected Research Janz, B. 2014. "After the Big Idea: Entrepreneurial Success Through High Performance Start-Up Teams," Entrepreneur and Innovation Exchange. URL: Janz, B, Allen, D., Amini, M., Nichols, E. and Racer, M. 2013. "The Human Supply Chain: Mapping and Modeling the Flow of Human Capital for Navy 'Seabees'," Journal of Supply Chain and Customer Relationship Management, (Article ID 175961), URL: Hennington, A.H., Janz, B.D., and Poston, R. 2011. "I'm Just Burned Out: Understanding System Compatibility With Personal Values And Role-Based Stress In A Mandatory Usage Context," Computers in Human Behavior (27:3), pp. 1238-1248. Abstract Nickels, D. and Janz, B.D. 2010. "Organizational Culture: Another Piece of the IT-Business Alignment Puzzle," Journal of Information Technology Management (21:3), pp. 1-14. Abstract Janz, B. D. and Prasarnphanich, P. 2009. "Freedom to Cooperate: Gaining Clarity into Knowledge Integration in Information Systems Development Teams," IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management (56:4), pp. 621-635. Abstract Hennington, A. H., Janz, B. D., Amis, J., and Nichols, E. L. 2009. "Understanding the Multidimensionality of Information Systems Use: A Study of Nurses' Use of a Mandated Electronic Medical Record System," Communications of the AIS (25:1). Abstract Amini, M., Otondo, R., Janz, B. D., and Pitts, M. 2007. "Simulation Modeling and Analysis: A Collateral Application and Exposition of RFID Technology," Journal of Production and Operations Management (16:5), pp. 586-598. Abstract Hennington, A. H. and Janz, B. D. 2007. Physician Adoption of Electronic Medical Records: Applying The UTAUT Model In a Healthcare Context," Communications of the AIS (19:5), pp. 60-80. Abstract Chen, L., Frolick, M. and Janz, B. D. 2005. "Supply and Demand of IS Faculty: A Longitudinal Study," Communications of the AIS (15:37), pp. 674-695. Abstract Janz, B. D., Pitts, M. G., and Otondo. R. F. 2005. "Back to the Future with RFID: Lessons Learned – Some Old, Some New," Communications of the AIS (15:7), pp. 132-148. Abstract For a more comprehensive list of Dr. Janz's publications click here Faculty Lloyd Brooks Judith Brown Jasbir Dhaliwal Mark Gillenson Wade M Jackson Brian Janz Bill Kettinger Naveen Kumar Richard Kumi Euntae "Ted" Lee Jong Seok Lee Robin Poston Sandra Richardson Margaret Schultz Judith Simon Thomas Stafford Chen Zhang BIT News Publications, recognitions and spotlights about faculty and students of the BIT department. BIT Events Find out what's happening at the department and visit our weekly colloquium. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/23/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .