#http://www.memphis.edu/audit/faq.php
Frequently Asked Questions - Internal Audit - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Internal Audit Our Role External Audits Newsletters Other Documents &amp; Links Contact Information Home Internal Audit Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Q: In light of all the concern about privacy of personal information, why is it necessary for internal auditors to have access to all records, and why shouldn't students and staff be worried about this? Q: I'm familiar with the state auditors - is UOM internal audit the same thing? Q: Who receives reports from internal audit? Q: How can I propose a new University policy, or a change to an existing policy? Q: How do I audit a class? Q: How long does my office have to retain its files and records? Q: Why didn't I receive my W-2 in the mail? Q: How can I make sure the University has my correct address? Q: How do I log in to the 'myMemphis" portal? Q: Where can I find the guidelines for the University Purchasing Card? Q: In light of all the concern about privacy of personal information, why is it necessary for internal auditors to have access to all records, and why shouldn't students and staff be worried about this? A: Complete access to records ensures that auditors are able to carry out their job responsibilities. Rest assured that internal auditors are held to very high standards with regard to confidentiality and safeguarding information. The department adheres to the Institute of Internal Auditors Code of Ethics, which includes the following statement: "Internal auditors respect the value and ownership of information they receive and do not disclose information without appropriate authority unless there is a legal or professional obligation to do so." TOP Q: I'm familiar with the state auditors - is internal audit the same thing? A: No. The state auditors are employed by the State of Tennessee. Each year they arrive on campus and perform a required external audit of the University's financial statements. The UOM Internal auditors are employed by the University of Memphis and report to the UOM President and also to the TBR Audit Committee. TOP Q: Who receives reports from internal audit? A: Reports are issued to the University President who forwards the report to the Tennessee Board of Regents. Others receive copies based on their relationship to the activity or department audited - usually the division vice president, the activity/department director, and others on a "need to know" basis, depending on the circumstances TOP Q: How can I propose a new University policy, or a change to an existing policy? A: Contact your representative on the Policy Review Board. A list of members may be found at TOP Q: How do I audit a class? A: This process is handled by the Registrar's Office. See their web site at or call 901.678.2810 for more information. TOP Q: How long does my office have to retain its files and records? A: The University's record retention program is administered by the Vice President of Business and Finance. Information about the University's policy and current record retention schedule may be found at this policy link " Records Management " or at this records management link " Records Schedule ". In addition, the Tennessee Board of Regents has issued a Guideline G-070 "Disposal of Records" . TOP Q: Why didn't I receive my W-2 in the mail? A: If it is past the first week or two of February, then the most likely reason is the W-2 was mailed to wrong address. W-2s are processed each January, based on the mailing address you entered in Employee Self Service, now accessible through the "myMemphis" portal. To get your original W-2 you may: Contact Internal Audit to see if it was returned to the University, and Bring your ID and stop by in person to pick it up, or Tell us your new address and we will mail it to you. Alternatively, you may log-in to the Employee area of the "myMemphis" portal and print a copy of your W-2 yourself. If we do not have your original W-2, you may also obtain a copy from the Payroll Office in 272 Administration, 901.678.3841. You may also elect to receive an electronic copy instead of a paper copy of your W2 each year by logging-in to the "myMemphis" portal and making a one-time election in the Employee tab. For more information contact the Payroll Office at 901.678.3841 or payroll@memphis.edu . TOP Q: How can I make sure the University has my correct address? A: Internal Audit cannot change your address. To do this you must: Log in to the "myMemphis" portal, go to the Employee tab, and click the link to update your address, or Visit the office of Employee Records (178 Administration Bldg.) and complete a change of address form. TOP Q: How do I log in to the "myMemphis" portal? A: From the University main page, click the "myMemphis" link and log in with your UUID and password. If you do not have a UUID and password (or it doesn't work) contact the Helpdesk at 901.678.8888. " myMemphis " UMhelpdesk TOP Q: Where do I find the guidelines for the University Purchasing card? A: Procurement and Contract Services maintains the Purchasing Card Program and the card guidelines. The office may be contacted at 901.678.2265 or 901.678.3673. purchasing@memphis.edu Link to Card Guidelines: Purchasing Card Program TOP What Is An Audit? Explanation of an Audit FAQs Frequently Asked Questions Report Report Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .