#http://www.memphis.edu/cs/about/accolades_student.php
Student Accolades - Computer Science - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Computer Science About Future Students Current Students Research People Contact Hiring About Department at a Glance Message from the Chair Faculty Accolades Student Accolades Sponsors Home Computer Science About Student Accolades Student Accolades A team of two graduate ( Kul Subedi , Sujit Shrestha ) and two undergraduate ( Robert Edstrom , Nick Gordon ) students won 2nd place at the CANSec Cyber Defense Competition, held in Little Rock on Oct. 24., 2015. Undergraduate students Herve Aniglo and Kareem Dasilva received 1st place in the first annual hackathon at the 2015 National Society of Black Engineers Region 3 Fall Regional Conference. They were invited to showcase their app during the March 2016 NSBE Annual Convention and to continue working on the app over the summer as an internship opportunity. Graduate student Maria Luong was selected as a 2015 Scholar to attend the Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing. Graduate student Minsheng Zhang received student travel grants to attend the ACM Conference on Information-Centric Networking (ICN 2015) from Sept. 30 to Oct. 2, 2015. Graduate students Minsheng Zhang and Muktadir Chowdhury received student travel grants to attend the NDN Community Meeting (NDNComm 2015) from Sept. 28 to Sept. 29, 2015. They both participated in the first NDNComm hackathon, and the project Minsheng participated in received the first place award from the judges. Graduate students Rajendra Banjade , Dipesh Gautam , Nabin Maharjan , and Nobal Niraula were on a team that received 1st place in the SemEval-2015 Semantic Textual Similarity Competition. Graduate students Kul Prasad Subedi and Charles Lancaster Jr. were on a team that won the Cyber Defense One Vulnerability and Exploit Competition (Capture the Flag) at the 2014 Middle TN Cyber Summit. Graduate students Amin Ahsan Ali and Syed Monowar Hossain were awarded NSF-funded student travel grants to attend the prestigious ACM SenSys 2012 conference and its accompanying mHealthSys workshop. Graduate student Nobal Niraula was a co-author on "Automated Detection of Local Coherence in Short Argumentative Essays Based on Centering Theory," which won the Best Paper award at the 2012 Int. Conf. on Computational Linguistics (CICLing). Graduate student Cristian Moldovan was a co-author on a paper that received Honorable Mention for the Best Paper award at the 2011 Midwest Artificial Intelligence and Cognitive Science Conference. Undergraduate student Charles Ellis and graduate student Vivek Datla , two student members of the Game Theory in Cyber Security research group, were co-authors on a paper that won the Best Overall Paper Award at the Spring Simulation Multiconference (SpringSim'10) in Orlando, FL, April 11-15, 2010. The paper, entitled "On Modeling and Simulation of Game Theory-based Defense Mechanisms against DoS and DDoS Attacks," also involved contributions from Prof. Chase Wu, Prof. Sajjan Shiva, and postdoc Dr. Sankardas Roy. Graduate student Yi Gu was selected as a 2010 finalist for the prestigious Google Anita Borg Scholarship. She shared this distinction with finalists from such schools as Carnegie Mellon, Cornell, MIT, Princeton, and Stanford. Yi also received second place in the ACM Student Research Competition at the Supercomputing 2010 conference for her work on "Optimizing End-to-End Performance of Scientific Workflows in Distributed Environments." Graduate student Yunyue Lin and undergraduate student Xiaoshan Cai received the Best Paper Award at the 4th International Symposium on Innovation and Real-time Applications of Distributed Sensor Networks, held in Hangzhou, China, from May 18-21, 2009. Their paper was entitled "Deploying Multiple Base Stations for Lifetime Maximization in Wireless Sensor Networks." The work was performed under Prof. Chase Wu. Graduate student Archana Bhattarai received a Best Student Paper Award at the IEEE Symposium Series on Computational Intelligence (SSCI), held in Nashville, TN, from March 30 - April 2, 2009. Her paper, entitled "Characterizing Comment Spam in the Blogosphere through Content Analysis," was based on research done under Prof. Vasile Rus and Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta. Undergraduate student Roy Crowder was selected as a 2007 finalist for a Campus Ambassador/Student Intern position at Sun Microsystems, representing the University of Memphis. Rajesh Ramanand , a graduate student working with Prof. David Lin, won first prize at the 2007 FedEx Institute of Technology Business Plan Competition. Rajesh also won second prize in the 2006 competition. Graduate student Zhou Ji received one of the Best Paper Awards at GECCO 2006, the International Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference. The paper, "Applicability Issues of the Real-Valued Negative Selection Algorithms," was joint work with Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta. Computer Science students have traditionally done very well in the University of Memphis' annual Student Research Forum. Our past awards (in the Math and Computer Science category) include: Abhijit Nag , 1st place (graduate), 2015 (Advisor: Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta) Daqing Yun , 2nd place (graduate), 2015 (Advisor: Prof. Chase Wu) Ashlesh Gawande , 1st place (undergraduate), 2015 (Advisor: Prof. Lan Wang) Abhijit Nag , 1st place (graduate), 2014 (Advisor: Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta) Poonam Dharam , 1st place (graduate), 2013 (Advisor: Prof. Chase Wu) Yaoqing Liu , 2nd place (graduate), 2013 (Advisor: Prof. Lan Wang) Rodrigo Silva , 1st place (graduate), 2012 (Advisor: Prof. Stan Franklin) Mustafa Hajeer and Alka Singh , 2nd place (graduate), 2012 (Advisor: Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta) Archana Bhattarai , 1st place (graduate), 2011 (Advisor: Prof. Vasile Rus) Rodrigo Silva , 2nd place (graduate), 2011 (Advisor: Prof. Stan Franklin) Yaoqing Liu , 2nd place (graduate), 2010 (Advisor: Prof. Lan Wang) Ernest McCracken , 1st place (undergraduate), 2009 (Advisor: Prof. Lan Wang) Santanu Guha and Somnath Mitra , 1st place (graduate), 2008 (Advisor: Prof. Santosh Kumar) Htay Myint Naing and Bhagavathy Krishna , 2nd place (graduate), 2008 (Advisor: Prof. Santosh Kumar) Ernest McCracken , 1st place (undergraduate), 2008 (Advisor: Prof. Lan Wang) Brian Kennedy , 2nd place (undergraduate), 2008 (Advisor: Prof. Vinhthuy Phan) Jie Wu , 1st place (graduate), 2007 (Advisor: Prof. Vasile Rus) Igor Beliaev , 1st place (graduate), 2006 Sai Kolli , 2nd place (graduate), 2006 Clifton Russ , 2nd place (undergraduate), 2006 About Department at a Glance Message from the Chair Faculty Accolades Student Accolades Sponsors News &amp; Events Weekly colloquium talks and other events Career Opportunities Internship information and job postings for students Degree Programs Information on our degree and certificate programs Courses Recent syllabi for our courses Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/11/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .