#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/news/memphismattersseptember2015.php
Memphis Matters - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About News E-News Magazine Update Info Class Notes University News Home UMAA News Memphis Matters Journalism Outstanding Alumni Awards Join the Journalism Alumni Club for an Oustanding Alumni Awards Dinner on Wednesday, October 14. True Blue Tailgate Join the Alumni Association in Tiger Lane before each Tiger home game! Not in Memphis? Find a watch party in your area! University News Stay up-to-date on student and faculty accomplishments, college updates and upcoming events. Lambuth Campus Update Come back home to Lambuth for True Blue Day 2015 on Saturday, October 24 . Club and Chapter News Mark your calendar for these upcoming Alumni Association events including: Tiger Football Watch Parties, Blue Lantern Tour, True Blue 5k, Homecoming and more! Alumni Spotlight Meet Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music alumna, Delores Kinsolving. Benefit Spotlight Association Members: Set sail with Go Next! The Alumni Association has partnered with Go Next to bring alumni and friends together to explore new places. Journalism OuTSTanding Alumni Awards Join the Journalism Alumni Club for an Outstanding Alumni Awards Dinner on Wednesday, October 14 , at 7:00 pm at the UofM Holiday Inn . The Charles E. Thornton Award will be presented to James Overstreet (BA '92), executive editor of The Memphis Daily News , and posthumously to Mike Pennington (BA '72), journalist and communications counselor with PenNotes LLC. Otis Sanford , Hardin Chair of Excellence in Economic and Managerial Journalism at the UofM and political commentator for WREG-TV, will receive the Herbert Lee Williams Award . Amanda Mauck (BA '04), digital marketing manager for Le Bonheur Children's Hospital, will be recognized as Outstanding Young Alumna . Aidan Porter , a journalism student at the UofM, will be honored with the Emerging Young Journalist Award . The cost is $60 per person or $500 for a table of 10. RSVP by October 12 to semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043. True Blue Tailgates Join the Alumni Association in Tiger Lane for a True Blue Tailgate before each home game. The tent opens two hours before kick-off. The cost is $8 for Association members or $10 for non-members. Children under 12 are complimentary. For more information contact alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.2586. Tailgate Schedule: Thursday, September 24, 4:30 pm Saturday, October 17, Time TBA Saturday, October 31, Time TBA Saturday, November 7, Time TBA Saturday, November 28, Time TBA Not in Memphis? Find a watch party in your area! Upcoming Tiger Football Watch Parties: Atlanta, Georgia : Thursday, September 24, 7:30 pm EST | Mazzy's Sports Bar &amp; Grill (7160 Jimmy Carter Boulevard, Norcross, GA) Chicago, Illinois : Thursday, September 24, 6:30 pm CST | Fatpour Tap Works (2005 W. Division Street, Chicago, IL) New York, New York : Thursday, September 24, 7:30 pm EST | Rogue Bar &amp; Grill (757 6th Avenue, New York, NY) University News High School Seniors Will Get a Slice of College Life at UofM Campus Days High school seniors will find answers to their questions about college life when the University of Memphis holds its annual Campus Day on two occasions this fall. Students may attend the event on either of two Saturdays, September 26 or October 3, from 8:30 am to noon. The event, which is also open to parents, will begin with a light breakfast and entertainment by the University's pop music group, Sound Fuzion. UofM administrators will welcome attendees. Guests will learn about the admissions process, scholarships and financial aid, academic programs, residence life, student services and more. They will also have a chance to visit academic departments of their choice, talk with faculty members and tour the campus. Campus Day is free, but registration is necessary. Online registration is available here . The deadline to RSVP is September 18. For more information, contact recruitment@memphis.edu or 901.678.2169 or 800.669.2678. WUMR U92FM - Campus Radio Station Seeking Volunteers The UofM Campus Radio Station is seeking volunteers interested in becoming on-air personalities. Must be dependable and have good communication skills. On-air spots are three or four hours, one day a week. WUMR staff will train prospective personalities on FCC Regulations and the technical nuances of broadcasting. WUMR is also looking for volunteers to answer phones during annual fundraising events. These events are typically in June and November. For more information, please contact Malvin Massey at mmassey@memphis.edu or 901.678.3176. Students Can Explore Their Future at Graduate School Recruitment Fair Sept. 22 The University of Memphis will host a Graduate School Recruitment Fair Tuesday, September 22, from 3:00 - 7:00 pm in the University Center Ballroom. The fair is free and open to the public. There will be free GRE workshops at 4:00 and 6:00 pm. Graduate faculty, staff and students will be on hand to provide information about the UofM's 26 doctoral degrees, 54 master's degrees, 37 graduate certificates and education specialist degree. Law School representatives will be on hand to inform students about obtaining a law degree. Graduate and professional schools from more than 30 other universities will also have staffed information booths at the fair. Prospective students can also learn about financial aid, scholarships and fellowship programs, and may complete an online application for the Graduate School on the spot. Refreshments will be provided. For more information about the Graduate School, click here or call 901.678.4212. UofM's This is Memphis will Bring Fresh Local Talent To Levitt Shell Stage Lovers of quality music will be pleased to know that the University of Memphis' student-run record label, Blue TOM, is presenting their annual Fall music festival This is Memphis on October 11, 2015 at 7:30 pm at the Levitt Shell (1928 Poplar Avenue). The event, being held at the Levitt Shell, will feature just a few of the many talented artists that attend the university, including Ben Callicott, Mary Owens, Drew Erwin, and the Bluff City Soul Collective. Free Admission. For more information, contact bgyonas@memphis.edu or 901.678.2567. Lambuth Campus Update Come Back Home to Lambuth True Blue Day 2015 You are invited to "COME BACK HOME" and gather with former faculty, staff and friends on the Lambuth campus. During the day, you and your family will have a variety of fun things to do on campus. Start the day at 10:00 am with donuts and coffee with former faculty and staff. You may purchase new t-shirts or old gear to help raise funds for the Heritage Room. Participate in a discussion with Vice Provost Niles Reddick , attend Planetarium shows, walk the campus and learn about the Lambuth history from our new Student Ambassadors and enjoy a complimentary lunch with friends. The Outstanding Alumni Awards Program will begin at 1:00 pm . During the Awards Program we will honor three very special alums (voted by you), induct the Class of 1965 into the Half Century Club and honor former AD &amp; Coach Pepper Bray and former Coach Vic Wallace . Have Lambuth alumni in mind for the Outstanding Alumni Awards? Click here to download a nomination form. Please submit all nomination forms to k.goldsmith@memphis.edu by September 18. Later in the day, you may participate in the reopening of the Health &amp; Wellness Building at 3:00 pm , followed by the rededication of the basketball court to Pepper Bray . We hope you will be a part of this fun-filled day! For more information or to RSVP, please contact k.goldsmith@memphis.edu . UofM Lambuth Campus Sets Record for Enrollment The University of Memphis Lambuth Campus has broken a record for enrollment. This fall, 913 students are taking classes at the Lambuth Campus, up about 11 percent from 829 last fall. Enrollment at the Lambuth Campus has been growing steadily since the University of Memphis acquired the former Lambuth University in 2011. Enrollment the first year was 250. That number rose to 581 (a 132 percent increase) in fall 2012, and grew to 695 in fall 2013, a 20 percent jump. "We are very pleased to have an increase," said Dr. Niles Reddick, vice provost of the Lambuth Campus. "We believe our marketing and recruiting efforts are paying off. We would still like to increase our out-of-state student population, and will be making efforts at this in the upcoming year." Students at the Lambuth Campus may take a wide range of classes, including accounting, biology, communication, criminal justice, education, English, math, music, nursing and psychology. They have the advantages of a large metropolitan university set in a quiet residential neighborhood. Next year the Lambuth Campus will add a program in Youth Services in the College of Education as well as a RN-to-BSN program. programs will pay dividends as well as meet community needs," said Reddick. UofM Lambuth Campus Designated a Level 2 Arboretum The University of Memphis Lambuth Campus has been designated a Level 2 Arboretum by the Tennessee Urban Forestry Council. Achieving the designation requires that at least 60 different varieties of trees be labeled. A pamphlet or map showing the locations of the trees must be available for self-guided tours. At the Lambuth Campus, 64 trees have been identified and labeled. They include everything from Southern Red Oak and Northern White Cedar to Willow Oak, Littleleaf Linden and Loblolly Pine. Read More UofM Lambuth Will Host Concert to Benefit Scholarship The University of Memphis Lambuth will host a free concert Saturday, Sept. 26 , at 7 pm in the Hamilton Performing Arts Center . The concert will benefit the Hal &amp; Teresa Freeman Nursing Scholarship for Veterans. While there is no admission charge, donations will be accepted to benefit the scholarship. American Pride, a tribute band of the Statler Brothers, will perform. They have played on CMT and at the Grand Ole Opry and Ryman Auditorium. Music Entertainment students from the Lambuth Campus, led by Dr. Jeremy Tubbs, also will perform. Click here for more information. Club &amp; Chapter News Hispanic Alumni Council Hispanic Heritage Month begins on September 15. The Hispanic Alumni Council (HAC) will kick off this month-long celebration with a dinner on Tuesday, September 15 at 6:00 pm in the UC Ballroom . At the dinner, HAC will award three scholarships! To learn more about Hispanic Alumni Council, contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Engineering Alumni Chapter Join alumni, friends and faculty of the Heff College of Engineering for Herff College Happy Hour on Thursday, September 17 , from 6 to 8 p.m. at High Cotton Brewing Tap Room, 598 Monroe Ave. Pints are $3.50 for those who wear UofM or Herff College gear. Join Herff Alumni Chapter on Tuesday, October 6 , at 5:30 pm in the University Center Fountain View Suite for a panel discussion by Six Sigma and Lean Management professionals, Ed Rowlett , Juwanna Anderson and Carl Williams , discuss about this history and best practices of both. Please mark your calendars and contact alumniassociation@memphis.edu for further details or to RSVP. Are you an engineer requiring credit hours toward maintaining your credentials? Or An engineer seeking ways to expand your engineering network and learn valuable information that will make you more marketable to your current or future employer? Sign up for the next Herff Alumni Chapter PDH to gain industry trends. Click here to learn more. UMAR UMAR's Book Club will meet on Tuesday, September 22 , at 11:30 am at The Grove Grill (4550 Poplar Avenue) to hear Lisa Eldin lead a discussion about the selected book, All the Light We Cannot See by Anthony Doerr. Join UMAR's Lunch Bunch on Tuesday, October 13 , at 11:30 am at RP Tracks (3547 Walker Avenue). RSVP to Kathy Cook at 901.385.0628. For more information or to RSVP for any of these events, contact alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.2586. Senior Luncheon On Wednesday, September 23 , the Alumni Association will continue our newest tradition of honoring our Senior Class with an honorary luncheon hosted by our generous donor, George Johnson , with special guest speaker, President M. David Rudd . All seniors are invited to attend the luncheon in the UC Ballroom from 12:30 - 2:00 pm . Food will be provided by Aramark. All seniors who RSVP to the event will also receive a free t-shirt commemorating their final year at the UofM. For more information, contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. The Lambuth Senior Class will be honored the following day, Thursday, September 24 , in the Wilder Ballroom at 11:30 am . To RSVP and receive a complimentary t-shirt, contact k.goldsmith@memphis.edu . Atlanta Alumni Club Join Atlanta alumni and friends for a Tiger Football Watch Party on Thursday, September 24 , at 7:30 pm at Mazzy's Sports Bar &amp; Grill (7160 Jimmy Carter Boulevard, Norcross, GA). Cheer on our Tigers as they take on the Cincinnati Bearcats! For more information, contact kjfalk@memphis.edu or 901.678.2905. Chicago Alumni Club Join Chicago alumni and friends for a Tiger Football Watch Party on Thursday, September 24 , at 6:30 pm at Fatpour Tap Works (2005 W. Division Street, Chicago, IL). Cheer on our Tigers as they take on the Cincinnati Bearcats! Drink specials available. For more information, contact kjfalk@memphis.edu or 901.678.2905. New York Alumni Club Join New York alumni and friends for a Tiger Football Watch Party on Thursday, September 24 , at 7:30 pm at Rogue Bar &amp; Grill (757 6th Avenue, New York, NY). Cheer on our Tigers as they take on the Cincinnati Bearcats! For more information, contact kjfalk@memphis.edu or 901.678.2905. True Blue Pre-Game Party in Tampa, Florida Join the Alumni Association for a pre-game party before your Memphis Tigers take on the USF Bulls on Friday, October 2 at 4:00 pm at Raymond James Stadium (4201 N Dale Mabry Highway, Tampa, FL). Complimentary snacks will be provided. Cash bar available. More information to follow. Band Alumni Chapter Register today for the Inaugural Ray Mullins Memorial Golf Tournament on Monday, October 5 , at 12:00 noon at Mirimichi Golf Course (6195 Woodstock Cuba Road, Millington, Tennessee). Registration includes: lunch, complimentary beverages during tournament, t-shirt and a chance to win prizes. Proceeds benefit the UofM Bands and the Mighty Sound of the South. Click here to learn more and download a registration form. Mark your calendars! Bandmasters will be held on Saturday, October 24 at the Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium . Click here to register your team. Spectator fee is $10 for adults, $5 for students. Children under 6 are free. For more information about these events or the Band Alumni Chapter, contact m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461. Journalism Alumni Club Save the date for the Outstanding Journalism Alumni Awards Dinner on Wednesday, October 14 , at the UofM Holiday Inn (3700 Central Avenue). A cocktail reception begins at 6:00 pm followed by dinner and awards at 7:00 pm. Cost is $60 per person or $500 per table of ten. RSVP by October 12. For more information, contact semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043. Memphis Pom Alumni Chapter Save the date for a pom competition hosted by the Memphis Pom Alumni Chapter. The competition will be held on Saturday, October 24 at 3:30 pm in the Elma Roane Field House (495 Zach Curlin Street). Click here to learn more and download a team or solo registration form. To learn more about the Memphis Pom Alumni Chapter, contact m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461. Student Ambassador Board Welcome to our newest Student Ambassadors: Emily Autrey, Zac Gillam, SheChinah Hampton, Jordan Hartwell, Realan Lewis, Andrew Mok, Andreas Nunley and Bobby Prince at the Memphis campus and Elizabeth Holmes at Lambuth! The Student Ambassador Board takes you back in time to learn the mystery and to meet the characters that make up our campus history. The first-ever Blue Lantern Tour will take place on Friday, October 30 , at 7:00 pm on the UofM Campus. This event will feature lantern-lit tours around the campus. The lantern tours will be led by blue-lantern carrying guides from the Student Ambassador Board. The tours begin in the Student Plaza and will take place from 7:00-8:30 pm. Students, faculty, alumni, Pouncer's Pals and the community will get the chance to learn about several of the historic figures and events within the UofM's rich history. Guests will have the opportunity to "meet" President Mynders and his ghostly daughter, the Memphis State 8, Elma Roane and many others. In addition to the tours, there will be entertainment, refreshments, music and activities as part of Parent &amp; Family Weekend. Going on a lantern tour is a great opportunity to learn more about the history of the University of Memphis, including several ghost stories and the lore of the university. The stories you will hear will also highlight how much the campus has grown and continues to grow each day. For more information about SAB, contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Young Alumni Kick off Homecoming Week with the Ninth Annual Young Alumni True Blue 5k on Sunday, November 1 , at 2:00 pm on the UofM campus . Click here to register . Registration fee: $25 through October 25 | $30 October 26 - November 1. For more information on Young Alumni, contact m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461 . Homecoming 2015 Save the Date: Homecoming 2015 will be held on Saturday, November 7 . Our Tigers will play the Navy Midshipmen. Stay tuned for additional homecoming events! Tiger Troops Join Tiger Troops and The Student Ambassador Board for Veterans Day on Wednesday, November 11 . A guest speaker will kick-off the program in the UC Theatre at 12:30 pm . A panel of Veteran guest speakers, introduced by President M. David Rudd , will speak about their war experiences. Immediately following, the UofM ROTC will lead the Veterans Day March. Activities and photo opportunities will be available for students, faculty, staff and alumni. An Honor Wall with thousands of hand-written notes of gratitude to our active troops will be displayed on the Alumni Mall. Following the Veterans Day activities, these postcards will be taken down and mailed to active troops, veterans and wounded warriors. As part of Veterans Day, Tiger Troops will also be collecting items for the "Tiger Gear for Tiger Troops" service drive. Please donate any care package items, toiletries and magazines. Registered Student Organizations (RSOs) will have the opportunity to set up individual care package stations on the Alumni Mall during Veterans Day events. At these stations, anyone may drop off items to build care packages as part of the Year of Service. The RSO with the most items collected will receive a special prize. Once all items are collected, they will be shipped to bases for the troops and their families. If you are unable to attend Veterans Day and would still like to drop off care package items, please bring them to the Alumni Center (635 Normal Street) by 4:30 pm on November 11. For more information regarding Veterans Day or Tiger Troops, please contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law Alumni Chapter The Law Alumni Chapter held the annual Pillars of Excellence awards presentation and dinner presented by Argent Trust on Saturday, August 22. Recipients included Hon. George H. Brown , Joe M. Duncan , Hon. David S. Kennedy (BS '67, JD '70) , Arnold E. Perl , Julia S. Sayle (JD '70) , Hon. Donn A. Southern and Blanchard E. Tual (MA '81) . Kathy and J.W. Gibson were honored as the Friends of the Law School. View Photos Pouncer's Pals Save the date for Pouncer's Pals Walk Around the Field , on Saturday, November 7 at the Homecoming football game! More details to follow. Calling all Tiger fans, ages 0-12! Pouncer's Pals is an exclusive club designed for little Tiger fans. Click here to learn more and sign your children up today! Members receive quarterly activity packets and exclusive events. Pouncer's Pals are getting NEW t-shirts! See a preview of the new design below: For more information contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Emerging Leaders Alumni All Emerging Leaders alumni are invited to join one of our newest groups in the Alumni Association, the Emerging Leaders Alumni group. For more information about how you can get involved with this group, contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Alumni Spotlight Delores Kinsolving (BS '54, MME '72) A lifelong Memphian, Delores Kinsolving is a devoted alum, arts educator and patron. With a thirty-year career in the Memphis public school system, she initiated numerous music programs that are still active. Today, Kinsolving focuses on strengthening the professional arts in Memphis. She generously invests her time as a member of the Advisory Council for the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music, the Board of Directors at GPAC and the Board of Directors for Opera Memphis. In 2007, Kinsolving was privileged to sponsor Giovanna Maresta, an assistant director at La Scala Opera Theatre in Milano, Italy, to come to the University of Memphis to direct the opera Don Giovanni and Barbiere Di Siviglia . As a result of these sponsorships, Kinsolving was invited to La Scala and was treated with a personal famous "red box" for seating in the second balcony of the Theatre. In February 2012, Kinsolving sponsored the UofM's production of The Phantom of the Opera. The production was a sellout during its entire run. The UofM was the only university that was given the rights to do the show and was required to use its own students. Faculty member, Copeland Woodruff, was the Phantom. This production was presented by the UofM Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music and Department of Theatre and Dance. While completing her undergraduate degree, Kinsolving learned to play the cello and performed with the Music Education Orchestra under the direction of Noel Gilbert. During her sophomore year, she learned to play the bassoon and performed with the University Orchestra under the direction of Paul Earhart. "These were wonderful experiences of playing in an orchestra, which I had always wanted to do. We are so fortunate to have the University of Memphis right here in 'our own back yard' and to be the only University in the state of Tennessee to offer a Doctorate in Music degree," shared Kinsolving. A lifetime member of the University of Memphis Alumni Association, Kinsolving is a longstanding supporter of the University's opera program. She generously arranged for provisions in her estate plans to create The Delores Kinsolving Operatic Audition Endowment Fund, as a lasting legacy to her devotion to her alma mater. benefit spotlight The UofM Alumni Association is bringing alumni and friends together to explore new places and experience different cultures through exciting travel opportunities with Go Next. Click here to view trips that are currently available including cruises to the Tahitian Islands, the Atlantic and more. For more information about these packages, please visit or call toll free 1.800.842.9023. UofM Alumni Association members receive great discounts and benefits year round. View a list of membership benefits here . For more information contact the Alumni Association at alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.ALUM. Join Now Interested in joining the Alumni Association? Click here to learn more and join now! News E-News Magazine Update Info Class Notes University News Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .