#http://www.memphis.edu/management/faculty/bkedia.php
BENWARI KEDIA - MGMT - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Management Welcome Programs Courses Faculty PhD Students Research FCBE Faculty Welcome Programs Courses Faculty PhD Students Research Contact Us Home MGMT Faculty BENWARI KEDIA BENWARI KEDIA Professor, Department of Management Phone 901.678.4044 Email bkedia@memphis.edu Fax Office FEC 220 Office Hours by appointment Website Biography Ben L. Kedia holds the Robert Wang Chair of Excellence in International Business and is Director of the Wang Center for International Business Education and Research (CIBER) at the University of Memphis. Prior to coming to Memphis in 1989, Dr. Kedia taught international business and management at Texas Tech University (1975-78) and at Louisiana State University (1978-89), where he also served as Director of the Division for Business Research and Chairman of the Department of Management. He was a Visiting Scholar at the University of Strasbourg (France, 2002), the Unilever Chair Visiting Professor at the Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, New Delhi, India (1999), a Distinguished Visiting Fellow at the State University of New York, Plattsburgh (1998), a Distinguished Visiting Scholar at Nankai University (China, 1996), Gambrinus Fellow at the University of Dortmund (Germany, 1994) and a Visiting Professor at the Czech Management Center (1992). His teaching and research interests include International Business Strategy and Cross-Cultural and Comparative Management. Professor Kedia’s research has been published in the Academy of Management Review, Organization Science, Journal of Management Studies, Journal of World Business, Journal of Teaching in International Business, International Business Review, European Management Journal, The International Executive, Business and the Contemporary World, International Marketing Review, Journal of High Technology Management Research, Columbia Journal of World Business, Management International Review, California Management Review , Personnel Psychology , and others. In addition, he has contributed several chapters to leading research and textbooks. Dr. Kedia has served as Division Chair, Program Chair, and Doctoral Consortium Chair of the International Management Division of the Academy of Management. He also served as Program Chair, Vice President and President of the Academy of International Business-U.S. Southwest, and as President and Member of the Executive Committee of the CIBER Association. He is an active member of the Academy of Management, the Academy of International Business, and the CIBER Association. In addition to his academic and administrative responsibilities, he has served as a consultant and provided executive training for Federal Express, Smith &amp; Nephew, Citibank, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, American Cyanamid, and Entech Systems. Dr. Kedia is the recipient of over $10 million in grants and contracts, including major grants from the U.S. Department of Education designating The University of Memphis as a national resource Center for International Business Education and Research (CIBER). He has traveled extensively around the globe, sponsoring and directing study-abroad programs in international business in the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, former Soviet Union, Japan, Peoples’ Republic of China, Hong Kong, Argentina, Brazil, and Chile. He has also presented papers and/or seminars in Mexico, Canada, Austria, Hungary, the Czech and Slovak Republics, Poland, India, Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia, and Australia. He received his Ph.D. from Case-Western Reserve University, M.B.A. from Atlanta University, LL.B. (Bachelor of Laws) from the University of Bombay, and B. Com. (Bachelor of Commerce) from the University of Rajasthan ( India). Research Representative Publications : Kedia, B. L., S. Jain, (Forthcoming) Enhancing U. S. Competitiveness through Innovation , Edward Elgar. Kedia, B. L., Gaffney, &amp; Clampit, J. (forthcoming). Role of knowledge in internationalization of multinationals from emerging economies. Management International Review . Lahiri, S. D., B. Kedia and Mukherjee, D. (2012). Impact of management capability on the firm resource-performance linkage: Examining Indian outsourcing providers. Journal of World Business . Jain, S. C., and B. Kedia (Eds., 2011). Enhancing Global Competitiveness through Sustainable Environmental Stewardship, Edward Elgar. Mukherjee, D., S. Hanlon, and B. Kedia, “Organizational identification among virtual team members: Role of Individualism–collectivism and uncertainty avoidance” Cross Cultural Management , 19:4, 526-545. Kedia, B.L., &amp; Mukherjee, D. (2009). Understanding offshoring: A research framework based on disintegration, location and externalization advantages. Journal of World Business, 44 , 250-261. Perez-Nordtvedt, L., Payne, G.T., Short, J.C., &amp; Kedia, B.L. (2008). An entrainment-based model of temporal organizational fit, misfit, and performance. Organization Science, 19 , 785-801. Perez-Nordtvedt, L., Kedia, B.L., Datta, D.K., &amp; Rasheed, A.A. (2008). Effectiveness and efficiency of cross-border knowledge transfer: An empirical examination. Journal of Management Studies, 45 , 714-744. Danskin, P., Dibrell, C., &amp; Kedia, B.L. (2005). The evolving role of cooperation among multinational corporations and indigenous organizations in transition economies: A migration away from confrontation. Journal of World Business, 40 , 223-234. Bhagat, R.S., Kedia, B.L., Harveston, P.D., &amp; Triandis, H.C. (2002). Cultural variations in the cross-border transfer of organizational knowledge: An integrative framework. Academy of Management Review, 27 , 204-221. Kedia, B. L. and Mukherji A. (1999) Global managers: Developing a mindset for global competitiveness, Journal of World Business, 34 , 230-251. Kedia, B. L. and Harveston, P.D. (1999) Transformation of MBA programs: Meeting the challenge of international competition. Journal of World Business, 33 , 203-217. Kedia, B.L., &amp; Bhagat, R.S.(1988). Cultural constraints on transfer of technology across nations: Implications for research in international and comparative management. Academy of Management Review, 13 , 559-571. Teaching Dr. Kedia teaches and/or supervises the following courses in the International MBA Program: BA 7902 Workshop in Business (Business Culture Seminar), BA 7950 Research Practicum, BA 7950 Practicum in Int&amp;#39;l in Business. In addition, he supervises many doctoral students in BA 8910 Probems in Management - Independent Study and BA 9000 Doctoral Dissertation. Doctoral students he supervised have been placed at the University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, University of North Texas, University of Texas at Arlington, Illinois State University, University of Akron, Clarkson University etc. Service Service to the Fogelman College of Business and Economics Dr. Kedia is Member, Management Department Graduate Studies Comm.,; Member, Management Department, Ad Hoc Advisory Board; Executive Advisor, Int;l MBA program, Member Faculty Senate, Co-Chair, Confucious Institute, Member University Access and Diversity Committee, Member of the Board, Center for Cyber Security Service to the management discipline Dr. Kedia has served as Division Chair, Program Chair, and Doctoral Consortium Chair of the International Management Division of the Academy of Management. He is Advisory Board Member for the World Trade Magazine and American Society for Competitiveness. He is editorial board member of the following journals: Journal of High Technology Management , International Journal of Commerce and Management , American Society of Competitiveness , Finance India . Dr. Kedia serves as Ad-hoc reviewer for the Journal of International Management , Management International Review , Journal of International Business Studies , Journal of World Business, and Journal of Managerial Issues . Faculty Welcome Programs Courses Faculty PhD Students Research Contact Us MGMT News &amp; Events Learn about current events happening in our department! Research Colloquia Keep up with the latest Management academic research in our upcoming seminars. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .