#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbeusso/pdfs/successguide.pdf
Revised August 10, 2015 The University of Memphis 20 15 - 20 16 Fogelman College of Business & Economics Undergraduate Student Services SUCCESS GUIDE & ADVISING HANDBOOK SUCCESS GUIDE: 201 5 - 201 6 Welcome to The University of Memphis Fogelman College of Business & Economics (FCBE)! We are very glad that you have decided to be a part of this exciting college. This guide is designed to serve as an overview of the requirements and recommendations that will be necessary for you to complete your Bachelors of Business Administration (B.B.A.) . For more information about FCBE , visit our website at . Undergraduate Student Services Office (USSO) The Undergraduate Student Services Office (USSO) is the academic home for undergraduate students who have chosen to major in one of the fields of study offered by the Fogelman College of Business & Economics . Students in our programs have a diversity of e xperiences, knowledge, and interests. Advisors provide academic support to assure that students are making satisfactory progress toward a degree. Our mission is to academically advise, to personally empower, and to accurately refer current undergraduate students to the resources needed to help them achieve their academic goals. EXPECTATIONS: The USSO has developed expectations that help guide the advising process giving students and advisors a framework in which to help as they journe y through higher education. The expectations include the following: For Students : Understand and accept that you are ultimately responsible for your education and your own decisions. Schedule time early each semester to meet with an advisor. Good advising is a two - way street: you must come prepared in order to get the most out of your advising appointment s . Prior to each advising appointment, ask yourself what your goals are (graduating on time, getting a certain kind of internship, h olding a leadership position, being admitted to graduate school, etc.). If you are uncertain about your goals, ask questions of your advisor. Know your time limitations and be realistic as you plan your semester schedules . Take into account work schedule s, athletic practice, campus involvement, commute time, or maybe just the fact that you're not a morning person. Read your university email regularly. The USSO primarily communicates with students through their university email. Failure to read universi ty email s does not excuse you from being responsible for the information sent to your email account. Read the Undergraduate Bulletin and your UMdegree , which is your degree audit. To access UMdegree, go to http: //umdegree.memphis.edu/ . For Advisors: Develop a meaningful relationship and , where appropriate, advocate for you. Provide you with correct, up - to - date academic information. Help you develop a course of study that reflects your academic background, person al situation, and educational goals. Inform you of as many campus and community resources that are necessary to best advise you. Promote learning opportunities that will help you define and/or meet your academic goals. Interpret and provide rationale s for institutional policies, procedures, and requirements. The University of Memphis has developed expectations regarding academic advising. To learn more, please visit . 120 Credit Hours Minimum for a B.B.A. How Course Credits Apply to a B.B.A. General Education (32 Credit Hours) Lower Division Business Core (21 Credit Hours) Upper Division Business Core (30 Credit Hours) Major Courses (21 - 30 Credit Hours) General Electives (7 - 16 Credit Hours) General Requirements for the B.B.A. Your B.B.A. consists of 5 areas. You must satisfactorily complete the requirements for each to obtain a B.B.A.: 1. General Education requirements ( ) 2. Lower Division Business Core (courses numbered 2999 and lower) 3. Upper Division Business Core (courses numbered 3000 and higher) 4. Major requirements 5. General Electives To earn a B.B.A. from The University of Memphis, you must complete a minimum of 120 credit hours, including: 1. At least 33 credit hours of upper division business courses taken at The Univers ity of Memphis. Twelve (12) of those credit hours must be in your major. 2. At least 60 credit hours must come from a four - year institution. Obtaining a Second Degree: 1. You must meet the Lower Division Business Core, Upper Division Business Core, and Major requirements. 2. If you have completed courses at another institution that you want to substitute for business requirement s , please see the Transfer Work policy listed on page 7 of this booklet. 3. For residency requirements, students must take at least 33 cr edit hours of upper division business courses at The University of Memphis. Twelve (12) of those credit hours must be in the major. Eligibility Requirements for FCBE Undergraduate Programs Students may declare a business major at any time. Before enrolling in Upper Division Business courses, students must earn 45 credit hours (with the minimum required grades), complete the Lower Division Business Core, complete the 9 credit hours of General Education English, and complete COMM 2381 . The US SO permit authority may approve a student to take Upper Division b usiness courses for up to two semesters while the student is finishing the above requirements . After the two semesters, students must have all prerequisites noted above completed in order t o take any additional Upper Division b usiness courses. General Education Curriculum FCBE students are required to complete 32 hours of General Education Courses for the B.B.A . See http :// for more information about the courses needed to meet these requirements. Business students must take ECON 2010 and ECON 2020 to satisfy business requirements; therefore, the Social/Behavior al Sciences requirement for General Education is also met. Additionally, students must complete Math 1830 to satisfy business requirements; therefore , the m ath requirement for General Education is also met. Lower Division Business Core for the B.B.A. Al - obtain a Lower Division Business Core GPA of a 2.25 (2.50 for Accounting majors). ACCT 2010 Fundamentals of Accounting I ACCT 2020 Fundamentals of Accounting II prerequisite s ACCT 2010 , and MATH 1710 or MATH 1830 ECON 2010 Introduction to Macroeconomics ECON 2020 Introduction to Microeconomics MIS 2749 Foundation/Information Systems MATH 1830 Elementary Calculus prerequisite MATH 1710 SCMS 2710 Business Analytics - Statistics prerequisite MATH 1830 or MATH 1530 Prob ability /Statistics/Non - Calculus Upper Division Business Core for the B.B.A. - obtain an Upper Division Business C ore GPA of 2.25 . Students can begin taking their Upper Division Business Core courses upon completion of the Lower Division Business Core, the 9 credit hours of General Education English, and COMM 2381 (all with the requ ired GPA) . ACCT 3130 The Legal, Social, and Political Environment of Business FIR 3410 Financial Management prerequisites ACCT 20 1 0, ECON 2 0 20, SCMS 2710 or MATH 1530 S CMS 3510 Operations Management prerequisite SCMS 2710 or MATH 1530 SCMS 3711 Business Analytics - Tools prerequisite SCMS 2710 or MATH 1530 MGMT 3110 Organization and Management MGMT 3510 Bus iness Communication prerequisite MIS 2749 MGMT 4710 Strategic Management prerequisite s MGMT 3110 & MGMT 3510 MIS 3210 Critical Thinking/Project Manage ment prerequisite completion of Lower Core MKTG 3010 Principles of Marketing International Elective - Choose 1: MGMT 4810, MGMT 4510, MKTG 4530, FIR 4550, ECON 4351, ECON 4350, MIS 4310, ACCT 4625 Strategic Management is an interdisciplinary capstone course that teaches students advanced problem s olving as well as determination, execution, and control of strategic management processes in light of changing environments in which organizations operate . As such, this Upper Division b usiness course may only be semester. Students will gain access to this course after they have applied for graduation and have been deemed eligible for graduation by the FCBE graduation analyst. Apply to graduate through your myMemphis portal, My Degree tab. Follow the Majors in FCBE - 5 must be earned in the major courses. For up to date details on the courses required for each major, visit . Students must select one of the following majors: Accounting (ACCT) Business Economics ( BSEC ) Business Economics with Financial Economics concentration (FNEC) Business Information and Technology (BIT) (formerly MIS) Finance with Banking & Financial Serv ices concentration (BKFS) Finance with Business Finance concentration (BSFN) Finance with Real Estate concentration (RLES) International Business (INBS) Management (MGMT) Management with Human Resource s Management concentration (HRMG) Marketing Management (MKMT) Supply Chain Management (SCMG) General Electives A total of 120 credit hours must be completed to obtain a degree from The University of Memphis. If a student has not earned 120 credit hours from completing the General Education courses, the Lowe r Division Business Core, the Upper Division Business Core, and the major courses, additional courses must be taken. General Electives include any course numbered 1000 or higher; however, FCBE students may only take up to 2 credit hours of Physical Educat ion (PHED) courses toward their B.B.A. More than 2 credit hours of PHED will not be applicable toward the B.B.A. degree. Advising FCBE students are required to be advised every semester. Advisors are assigned based on major. To see a list of the advi sing staff, go to: . To make an appointment to meet with your advisor in the Fogelman Administration Building, room 114 (room 431 if y ou are in the University and/or Business Honors Program) , go to this link an Online on the left hand side of the page under Advising . Make your appointment early because w e do not take walk - in appointments or schedule same day appointments. You may call 901 - 678 - 2855 with questions. Please leave a message with your name and callback number if yo ur call is not answered . Y our call will be promptly returned. If you cannot make your scheduled appointment, please cancel your appointment through our online system so your time slot will become available to another student. For email advising, choose Request Email Advising under Advising, or email fcbeadvising@memphis.edu . In your email, include your name, major, U number, number of courses you would like to take, the term in which you would like to take the courses, and the names of courses you are interested in taking, if known. To find out your U number, go to . Please note that email advising typically has a minimum 48 hour turnaround, which can vary depend ing on volume. Permits Permits give students who are finishing the prerequisites permission to take Upper Division b usiness c ourses. Your advisor will let you know if you should apply for permits for business courses. To apply for permits, visit . The issuing of a permit depends upon the availability of the requested course and your eligibility. Please check the undergraduate catalog for course prerequisite s. A permit will allow you to register for any open section of that course that is not an honors section. Please note that online fees apply if you choose to select online courses. Our Multipurpose form, , handles requests for Late Add s , Permission into a Closed/Full section, Independent Study requests, Course substitutions, and Prerequisite Exception requests. The completed form is re turned to the Undergraduate Student Services Office , FAB 114, for processing. Other registration issues can be handled as follows: Type of Course: Where you need to go: Honors Courses Credit by Exam/CLEP - by - exam.php or Transfer Work If you have completed courses at another institution that you want to count toward your B.B.A. , please contact the USSO Office immediately. We will assist you with requesting a course substitution. If you want to take a class at another institution after you have been admitted to The University of Memphis, please fill out a Transfer Credit Request Form at /pdfs/tcr.pdf p rior to taking any courses at another institution. The completion of this form will ensure that you know the correct courses to take and how they will transfer into The University of Memphis. The Transfer Credit Request Form does not requi re an advisor signature as long as the school you are attending is on The Transfer Equivalency Table. How Do I Declare My Business Major or Minor? Please visit the USSO in the Fogelman Administration Building, room 114 , to declare your business major or business minor . We can assist you with processing of the Academic Program Maintenance form . Minors For business majors, receiving a minor in a business area is fairly simple. Please visit, to learn more about minors. If you are interested in a minor outside of the college of business, please check with the ap propriate University department that manages that minor . Having Trouble Deciding Which Major to Pursue? Career Services has a virtual career success tool called Focus 2 . This online tool will allow you to explore your career interests. To find out m ore information about this program , or to self - register and begin your free assessment, go to - alumni/explore - majors.php . D ropping or Withdrawing from a Course Dropping a course may be done generally through the second week of the semester. Please check for actual dates at gistrar/calendars/semester.htm . Dropping a course within these time limitations fice regarding refund deadlines, and please check before you drop or w ithdraw to see if you need to pay back financial aid funds to The University of Memphis. Withdrawal from individual courses may generally be done after the second week of the semester and through the eighth week of the semester. Please check for specific dates at . assigned on the transcript. Late Withdrawal In extreme circumstances, yo u may request a late withdrawal from your complete enrolled schedule . Please contact the Director of Undergraduate Student Services. He or she will inform you of the conditions under which a request may be honored and what documentation will be required . Repeating Courses You may repeat courses in an attempt to improve the grade previously earned. If you are receiving financial aid, always check with the Financial Aid Office to make sure that if you repeat a course, your financial aid will pay for it. You should always check with your USSO advisor before enrolling in a course a second or subsequent time. Credit by examination may not be used for the purpose of improving a grade previously earned in a course taken for credit. Grades earned in the second and each subsequent attempt will count toward your GPA. Your transcript will continue to reflect all grades earned in the same course. Courses repeated after a degree is awarded may not be used to replace grades earned prior to the awarding of the degree. - needed to attain the requir ed Lower Division Business Core, Upper Division Business Core, and/or Major GPA), you will not be allowed to be an undergraduate business student in the Fogelman College of Business & Economics . Y ou will be required to select a major in another college at The University of Memphis. Recommended Course Load An average of 15 credits per semester (Fall/Spring) will allow you to complete the General Education requirements and most business requirements in 4 years. If you can, balance your course load to prev ent burnout. For example, if you struggle with a particular subject matter, make sure you spread out those requirements among classes that are easier for you. Graduation If you are anticipating graduation (have 90 or more earned credit hours), please follo w the steps listed below: 1. Please check with for dates and deadlines for applying to graduate. 2. Students must apply to graduate through their myMemphis portal on the My Degree tab in the Commencement Channel: apply to graduate view your application enter and edit diploma mailing address/cap and gown information fill out the Commencement Attendance card during your fina l semester join the Alumni Association. 3. After you have applied to graduate and during the registration period for the next semester, you will receive an email at your University of Memphis email address from the Fogelman g raduation a nalys t w ho will confirm that your application has been accepted. All deadlines are strictly enforced. 4. If you meet all of the graduation requirements, you will receive an email stating you are on the right track toward graduation . Y ou must confirm the following ema il in order for your name to be added to the graduation list : Your application to graduate has been received by your college. According to UMdegree, you are on track to graduate in {#Graduation Term#}. Please review the Registration Checklist in UMdegree (see below) for remaining requirements for your final semester. The courses in which you are currently enrolled must be successfully completed. REQUIRED: PLEASE CLICK HERE TO CONFIRM THAT YOU HAVE RECEIVED THIS MESSAGE . 5. If you do not meet the graduation requirements, you will receive the following email. You are required to respond to the graduation analyst within 24 hours of receiving this message : Your Registration Checklist in UMd egree has been reviewed, and you are not on t rack to graduate within the term for which you applied. Please review the Registration Checklist for courses required to complete your degree. If your remaining requirements involve transfer credit or course substitutions, please contact the graduation analyst in your college. 6. Contact the graduation analyst in yo ur college before making any changes in your class schedule. 7. P lease contact the graduation analyst in your college if you need to change your expected graduation date . Hints on Being Successful in the Classroom Attend all your classes and be on time. Before coming to The University of Memphis, realize you may need to alter your expectations concerning how much time you need to study to be successful. You will be expected to shoulder greater responsibility for your learning and will be expected to meet higher academic standards. Go to class prepared read the required material before class! Do not procrastinate! Keep up with your coursework from day one. Do not miss the first day or week of class. You need to do everything to make sure that you are successful in your courses. Notify your professor in advance if you plan to miss class. That way, you can work with the professor to determine if and how you can mak e up the work that you missed. Participate in class discussions. s with them. Many professors are willing to provide helpful suggestions. Getting to know your professors can prove beneficial, especially if you will need recommendations from them in the future. For every hour you are in the classroom, generally you will need to dedicate two hours outside of the classroom for reading and completing assignments. Be prepared to s pend a great deal of time doing work outside the classroom. Memphis Institute for Leadership Education Program (MILE) MILE is a partnership between the FCBE Alumni Chapter and the Fogelman College of Business & Economics Department of Management. The mission of MILE is to prepare FCBE students to be future leaders in the city of Memphis through leadership development programs and mentoring. This program matches a select group of highly motivated, high ability s tudents with selected local Memphis business leaders and provides each student with an opportunity to engage in additional leadership education and training in a structured six - month program. For more information about this program, please visit - program.com/ . Honors Program Looking for a challenge? Interested in small classes that allow you to interact with professors on a personal level? Want to take classes with students who share similar a spirations and capabilities? Would you like to have access to the Honors Computer Lab and to have the option of living on an Honors - designated floor in the dorm? The Business Honors Program is designed for students who want to be academically challenged. Class size is generally 20 to 25 students, which allows for plenty of discussion, interaction with the professor, guest speakers, and other enriching educational experiences. In addition to the Business Honors Program, a student may also be eligible f or The Helen Hardin University Honors Program. For more information about The University of Memphis Honors Program, contact The University Honors Program in Honors Hall, 425 Patterson Street or call (901) 678 - 2690. Advantages associated with The Helen Ha rdin University Honors Program are priority registration, waived scholarship service hours, an option to live on the Honors - designated floor in the Living Learning Complex, access to the Honors Computer Lab, research opportunities, social and cultural acti vities, exchange opportunities, and interaction with other honors students. For more information about the Business Honors Program, please contact Professor Irvin Tankersley at itnkrsly@memphis .edu or at 678 - 4635. You may also contact Mary Johnson, Business Honors Advisor at mjohnson@memphis.edu . For more information about registering for honors sections of courses, see page 7. FCBE Scholarships The Fogelman College of Business & Economics offer ed over 75 different types of private scholarships totaling over $ 364,000 in awards for the 20 14 - 20 15 Academic Year. These yearly awards are available to incoming freshmen, transfer, and continuing students. If awarded, you could receive tuition, a book stipend, or a study abroad stipend! For further information regarding FCBE Scholarships, contact Felic ia Roddy - Jackson , Scholarships and Recruitment Coordinator , at 678 - 2859 , frddyjck@memphis.edu , or visit dex.php . In addition to The Fogelman College of Business & Economics, The University of Memphis Financial Aid Office also provides centralized and convenient access to a full range of financial aid services. For more information about financial aid servic es, visit its website at . Internships The FCBE has a formal undergraduate internship program, incorporating on - the - job learning in its academic environment. Internships provide students with opportunities to supplement academic instruction with prac tical, realistic job experience and potential credit in their major . To find more information about securing an internship , and to find out about the process for o btaining academic credit for internships, please visit . Study Abroad Students from FCBE participate in a variety of study abroad programs. For more information, please visit . University of Memphis Terminology Academic Departments : A division of a college offering degree programs within a special area. For the FCBE, the following are Business Information and Technology (formerly MIS) FAB 300 678 - 4613 E conomics FAB 400 678 - 2785 Finance, Insurance, & Real Estate FAB 402 678 - 5930 Management (Including International Business) FAB 202 678 - 4551 Marketing & Supply Chain Management FAB 302 678 - 2667 School of Accountancy FAB 200 678 - 4569 Classification/Class Standing : Students are classified as Freshman, Sophomore, Junior, or Senior standing according to the number of credit hours completed. Freshman: 0 - 29 credit hours Sophomore: 30 - 59 credit hours Junior: 60 - 89 credit hours Senior: 90 or more credit hours When registering for courses, it is important that you check to see if there is a class standing requirement for that course. College/School : A division of the university offering degree programs. Closed Class : Sometimes a course that you need is closed. What do you do? Check your myMemphis often. Class availability i nformati on is in real time, so you never know when someone may drop or when a class may open up. For non - business courses, you can also contact the department of the course to see if it will allow students to be added into a closed section. USSO has a closed class form for business courses that you will need to have filled out by the professor and department chair or school director for permission to enter into closed sections of business courses. Th e form is located at this link: . After the form is filled out, bring it to the USSO in Fogelman 114 for final processing . Credits to Graduate : A minimum of 120 credit hours is require d to graduate, which works out to an average of 15 credits per semester (Fall/Spring) for four years. Students may not count more than 2 credits of Physical Education (PHED) courses toward graduation credits. CRN : The Course Reference Number (CRN) is a 5 - digit number assigned to an individual section of a course. Every lecture and lab section has its own CRN. GPA: Your grade point average (GPA) is based on college credit you have earned at The University of Memphis. I/S/U/P/NP/W grades are not calcula ted in your GPA. (grade info at this link: ) Lecture & Lab : Types of classes you might have at The University of Memphis. Lectures are large or small group class meetings and are the primary mode of instruction at The University of Memphis. Science lectures will generally be accompanied by a lab, which is a smaller group meeting where students will complete activities related to the lecture. Major & Minor : Major refers to your primary field of study, and Minor refers to your secondary field of study. While everyone has a major, not everyone has a minor. Minors are not required. Some majors may require a concentration (which is a focus area within a majo r). myMemphis: myMemphis will allow you to access your grades, class schedule, and financial aid information, among other things. You will receive your password for myMemphis when you are admitted to the University. U - Number : Your U - Number is your uni que University identification number. It consists of the letter U followed by 8 digits. You should include this number, rather than your social security number, in all correspondence with the University. Do not supply your social security number unless spe cifically asked by a University employee who has a legitimate need to know it. Your U - Number is also referred to as your University ID Number, Banner ID, or even Student ID Number. Academic Support Resources The University of Memphis has several free ac ademic centers and tutorial labs located across campus. Academic Enhancement Center (AEC) - 2 0 7 Mitchell Hall - (901) 678 - 5226 ESP assistance is offered in the following areas: i ndividual t utoring in general education courses, f oreign l anguages, especially Spanish; s tudy & a cademic s upport s essions; w eekly s eminars as well as i ndividual c onsultation/ academic c oaching to improve student learning in areas of time management, note taking, reading for comprehension, critical thinking, test p reparation and test taking; c lass r oom p resentations; and a ssistance for s tandardized t est preparation, including the GRE and the PPST. Hours: Monday - Friday, 8:00am - 4:30pm Business Learning Center (BLC) - 256 Fogelman Building - (901) 678 - 3912 Need help in a business class? Try the Business Learning Center where tutors can help answer your questions about accounting, statistics, finance, and other courses. Tiger - LAN computers and course resource materials are available for students at this location. Hours : Monday - Thursday, 9 :00am - 7:00pm English Learning Center (ELC) - 225 Patterson Hall - (901) 678 - 2059 The ELC is designed to enhance the student's evaluation of his/her own writing and to produce clear, coherent work. Tutors provide instruction in all phas es of the writing process from choosing a topic to reviewing and revising a final draft. Bring any writing assignment from any discipline to the English Learning Center. You can receive help with research papers, writing assignments, essay exam preparation , and reading literature. Be sure to bring your paper and assignment sheet with you. TigerLan computers and printers are available at this location. Hours: Monday - Thursday, 8:00am - 7:00pm, Friday, 8:00am - 12:00pm Math Learning Center - 143 Dunn Hall - (901) 678 - 2704 Math tutors are m ath graduate students and upper level undergraduate students who can help you with College Algebra, Trigonometry, Calculus, Foundations of Math, Statistics, and math problems in other courses. Hours: Monday - Thursday, 8:00am - 7:00pm, Friday, 8:00am - 2:00pm Science Learning Center (SLC) - 217 Mitchell Hall - (901) 678 - 2704 The SLC offers individual and group tutoring for chemistry, biology, and physics. Tutors can help you learn - how - to - learn science concepts. Hours: Mo nday - Friday, 8 am - 4:00pm Disability Resources for Student Office (DRS) - 110 Wilder Towers - ( 901) 678 - 2880 Voice/TTY The Student Disability Services Office (SDS) arranges, coordinates, and provides academic accommodations and support s ervices for qualified students with disabilities. } *Nine hours of English (ENGL 1010, 1020, AND 2201 or 2202), COMM 2381, and the Lower Division Business Core must be completed with the required GPA before taking any Upper Division Business courses. MATH 1830 ACCT 2010 MIS 2749 ECON 2010 ECON 2020 ACCT 2020 SCMS 2710 OR MATH 1530 SCMS 3711 SCMS 3510 FIR 3410 MGMT 3110 MGMT 3510 ACCT 3130 MKTG 3010 International ELECTIVE MIS 3210 MGMT 4710 ACCT BSEC FIN INBS SCMG MGMT MKMT BIT FNEC BKFS BSFN RLES BSEC MATH 1710 *ENGL 1010 ENGL 1020 ENGL 2201 or 2202 COMM 2381 Concentrations HRMG GENERAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS I. Communication I ENGL 1010 (C - or better) ENGL 1020 (C - or better) II. Communication II COMM 2381 III. Humanities I (Pick One Course) ENGL 2201 or ENGL 2202 IV. Humanities II (Pick Two Courses) ART 1030; CLAS 2481; COMM 1851; ARTH 2101, 2102; DANC 1151; RLGN 1100; JDST 2850; MUS 1030, 1040; PHIL 1101, 1102; POLS 1101, 1102; UNIV 3580, 3581; THEA 1030 V. History ( Pick Two Courses) HIST 2010 HIST 2020 ANTH 3282; HIST 2030, 3863, 4851, 3881; POLS 4212, 4405; SOCI 3422; HIST 1110, 1120 VI. Social/Behavioral Sciences ECON 2010, 2020 VI. Natural Science with labs (Pick Two Courses). BIOL 1010/1011, 1020/1021, 1110/1111, 1120/1121; CHEM 1010/1011, 1020/1021, 1110/1111, 1120/1121; ESCI 1010, 1020, 1040, 1050, 1103; PHYS1010/1001, 1020/1002, 2110/2111, 2120/2121; PSCI 1010, 1020; ESC 1110, ESC 1120 , BIOL 2 010/2011, 2020/2021 *General Physics I / Trig, PHYS 2010/2011, will not count as a General Education science if it is taken at The University of Memphis. **Microbiology, BIOL 1230/1231, will not count as a General Education science. Math Placement Math p lacement is determined by your ALEKS score. Here is the link to the ALEKS website: . Your advisor can assist you with interpretati on of your score and the appropriate math c ourse to enroll in. All University of Memphis students need at least one college level math class to fulfill the General Education requirements. Business Mathematics Sequence MATH 1420, Foundations of Mathematics : Algebra review and applications; functions, graphs, permutations, combinations; introduction to probability and statistics; problem solving. MATH 1420 combo, Foundations of Mathematics: Same as MATH 1420 but also includes components to satisfy intermedia te algebra for those students that need DSPM 850. MATH 1710 , College Algebra : Analysis of functions (linear, quadratic, polynomial, root, rational, exponential, logarithmic) using graphing calculators; partial fractions; synthetic division; conic sections ; theory of equations; inequalities; applications. MATH 1710 combo , College Algebra: Same as MATH 1710 but also includes components to satisfy intermediate algebra for those students that need DSPM 850. MATH 1830 , Elementary Calculus : Introduction to c oncepts and methods of elementary calculus of one real variable as related to rational, exponential, and logarithmic functions; nature of derivatives; differentiation; application of derivative; nature of integration: definite integral; applications of def inite integral. MATH 1910 , Calculus 1 : Introduction to calculus of one real variable; limits; continuity; derivatives; applications of derivatives including Newton's method, graphing techniques, optimization, indeterminate forms and l'Hospital's rule; antiderivatives; includes transcendental functions. SCMS 2710 , Business Analytics - Statistics : Introduction to basic statistical procedures for analysis and interpretation of business data; collection and presentation of data, probability theory, measure s of central tendency and variability, sampling distributions, estimation of parameters, and principles of hypothesis testing; introduction to a statistical software package. MATH 1530 , Prob ability /Statistics/Non Calculus : Underlying ideas of statistical and quantitative thinking; randomization in sample survey methods and design of experiments; double blind experiments and observational studies; descriptive and summary statistics; measurement errors; probability models; normal approximation; tests of sign ificance and p - values, basic concepts of correlation and regression analyses . If you have questions about this booklet or advising, contact us at: Undergraduate Student Services Office Math 1420 or MATH 1420 combo MATH 1710 or MATH 1710 Combo MATH 1830 or MATH 1910 SCMS 2710 or MATH 1530 114 Fogelman Administration Building Memphis, Tennessee 38152 901.67 8.2855 901.678.4344 fax fcbeadvising@memphis.edu