#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/news/memphismattersaugust2015.php
Memphis Matters - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About News E-News Magazine Update Info Class Notes University News Home UMAA News Memphis Matters Pillars of Excellence Join the Law Alumni Chapter for the annual Pillars of Excellence on Saturday, August 22 . Memphis Pom Alumni Chapter Join us in welcoming our newest chapter and save the date for its inaugural Legacy Dance Competition! University News Stay up-to-date on student and faculty accomplishments, college updates and upcoming events. Lambuth Campus Update The spirit of Lambuth lives on! Learn more about initiatives and changes on the campus. Club and Chapter News Mark your calendar for these upcoming Alumni Association events including: PMBA Networking Events, Blue Lantern Tour, True Blue 5k, Homecoming and more! Alumni Spotlight Meet National Board President, Kim Barnett . Benefit Spotlight Do you want to market your business to thousands of Tiger fans? Become an Alumni Association benefit partner! memphis alumni gameday experience INTRODUCING OUR NEWEST MEMBERSHIP OPTION Includes Annual Membership &amp; 2015 True Blue Tailgate Season Pass: $65 Join the UofM Alumni Association in Tiger Lane to cheer on our Tigers! You will receive one True Blue Tailgate pass to each of the six Tiger home games with complimentary food and drinks, plus all the benefits of UMAA membership! ($95 value) CLICK HERE TO JOIN NOW Already a member? Purchase your Tailgate Season Pass for only $48 ($60 value)! Contact 901.678.2586 or stop by the Alumni Center located at 635 Normal Street to purchase your pass. True Blue Tailgate Season Pass is good for the following games : 9/5 - 6:00 pm - vs. Missouri State 9/24 - 6:30 pm - vs. Cincinnati 10/17 - TBA - vs. Ole Miss 10/31 - TBA - vs. Tulane 11/7 - TBA - vs. Navy (Homecoming) 11/28 - TBA - vs. SMU (Tailgate opens 2 hours before kick-off) Law alumni chapter Pillars of excellence Join the Law Alumni Chapter for the annual Pillars of Excellence awards presentation and dinner presented by Argent Trust on Saturday, August 22 , at the Holiday Inn on the UofM campus . The cocktail reception begins at 6:00 pm followed by dinner at 7:00 pm. The Chapter will honor individuals with 45 years of exemplary service to the Memphis Legal and Civic Community. Recipients include Hon. George H. Brown , Joe M. Duncan , Hon. David S. Kennedy (BS '67, JD '70), Arnold E. Perl , Julia S. Sayle (JD '70), Hon. Donn A. Southern and Blanchard E. Tual (MA '81). Kathy and J.W. Gibson will be honored as the Friends of the Law School. Don't miss your chance to win one of the door prizes or live auction items. To view a list of these items, click here . RSVP to m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461 by August 19. Thank you to our generous sponsors : Title Sponsor: Argent Trust Cocktail Sponsor: Glassman, Wyatt, Tuttle &amp; Cox, P.C. Pillar Sponsor: Farris Bobango PLC For more information about sponsorship opportunities, click here . Memphis pom alumni chapter Join us in welcoming our newest chapter, Memphis Pom Alumni Chapter! They will gather for their first official meeting on August 25 at 6:30 pm in the Alumni Center (635 Normal Street). The chapter has already been hard at work with planning the Inaugural Memphis Pom Legacy Dance Competition on Saturday, October 24 in the Elma Roane Fieldhouse (UofM Campus). More details about this event to follow. For more information, contact Alumni Coordinator Marina Barrett Carrier at m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461. Keep up with Memphis Pom Alumni Chapter by visiting our website and Facebook page ! University News State Grant Will Help UofM Improve Services for Student Veterans The University of Memphis is one of 11 colleges selected to receive the Veteran Reconnect Grant, a competitive grant aimed at improving the success of student veterans enrolled in Tennessee colleges and universities. The UofM will receive $93,374. "From 2008 to 2013, we saw a 200 percent increase in the number of veterans enrolling in our Tennessee colleges and universities," said Gov. Bill Haslam in announcing the awards. "Our Veterans Education Task Force has been working to address the unique needs that our service men and women have when they come home and go back to school, and these grants will help two-year and four-year schools develop initiatives specifically designed for veterans to be successful in earning a degree or certificate." Read More UofM Ranked Among Best Colleges for Older Students The resource website bestcolleges.com has included the University of Memphis in its ranking of the top 50 Best Colleges for Older Students. More adults age 25 and older are taking time off before beginning or continuing work on an undergraduate degree. Some postpone their education for family obligations, to work or to travel. Whatever the reason, the trend of adults returning to school is on the rise. Between 2000 and 2011, the number of nontraditional students enrolled in undergraduate programs rose 41 percent; they comprised 38 percent of all undergraduates in 2011. Many colleges have degree programs, student organizations or advisers specifically geared toward older students. Read More UofM Faculty Member to Receive NCA Award for Outstanding Teaching Dr. Katherine G. Hendrix, professor of communication at the University of Memphis, has been named the recipient of the Donald H. Ecroyd Award for Outstanding Teaching in Higher Education. The award, which will be presented in Las Vegas in November, honors a National Communication Association (NCA) member who exemplifies outstanding teaching in higher education. Read More Lambuth Campus Update Save the date for Lambuth True Blue Day on October 24, from 10:00 am - 5:00 pm on the UofM Lambuth campus . The day will begin with coffee &amp; donuts with former and current faculty. Activities to follow include: kids carnival, planetarium show, lunch on the lawn, Recognition of the Class of 1965, tours of campus and competitive games. The Distinguished Alumni Awards Program will begin at 1:00 pm. The opening of the Gym will begin at 3:00 pm. The Gym is being rededicated to Pepper Bray, during this time. Following the Gym opening event, Student Ambassadors will begin the Lantern Tour. The Lantern Tour serves as a tour through the history of Lambuth campus. SABs (Student Ambassadors) will be dressed as historical figures of Lambuth. For more information or to RSVP by October 9, contact rsvp@memphis.edu . UofM Lambuth Campus Grant Will Focus on School Support in West Tennessee The University of Memphis Lambuth Campus has received a $3.75 million grant from the Tennessee Department of Education, Division of Special Populations and Student Support for the West Tennessee RTI2 - Behavior Project, which will focus on establishing a positive behavioral environment in schools. The grant will go toward developing a multi-tiered system to support students who struggle academically by providing intervention to help them meet their educational needs. For students who need additional support with behavioral problems, research-based intervention techniques and targeted strategies will be available to assist teachers. The goal of the project is to establish a positive environment so that good behaviors are positively reinforced. Dr. Renee Murley, assistant chair of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) at the Lambuth Campus, will serve as principal investigator; Dr. William Hunter, assistant professor of ICL at the Memphis campus, will be co-principal investigator; and Paula Brownyard will be project director. They will work with the Tennessee Department of Education to develop a framework for the state. The staff will offer technical assistance and training for district and school leadership teams for schools in West Tennessee that implement RTI2 - Behavior. "We are thrilled to have the opportunity to work with the Tennessee Department of Education, Division of Special Populations and Student Support in offering assistance to school districts in West Tennessee," said Murley. "Teachers often request support in addressing behavioral problems in the classroom. RTI2 - Behavior is designed to assist teachers in establishing an environment of a multi-tiered system of support, grounded in research-based practices." For more information, contact Paula Brownyard at 901.678.1955 or pgbrwnyr@memphis.edu . Learn more about Lambuth today: •20 bachelor degrees, 5 master's degrees, and 2 doctoral degrees in a variety of areas •Nationally ranked by U.S. News and World Report on the Honor Roll for Teacher Quality in the teacher preparation area •Military Friendly Schools list for 2015 •Nationally ranked by U.S. News and World Report for top 10 best internship programs in the United States •Ranked 14th best online RN to BSN program nationally •Ranked in the top 25 online MBA programs across the US by The Princeton Review •MSN online program ranked in the top 100 by U.S. News &amp; World Report •Over 50 study abroad programs available •National collegiate honors program available •Enrollment of 850 students •Average ACT score for entering students is 22 •UofM Lambuth is a designated Arboretum •Home of the M.D. Anderson Planetarium •Jackson, Tennessee designated "most livable" small city in the U.S. by the U.S. Conference of Mayors •Scholarships are available - Contact us for more information! Club &amp; Chapter News Professional MBA Alumni Club Alumni and new students are invited to meet with the leadership of the Fogelman College and the Professional MBA Alumni Board to discuss updates from the College and what the Alumni Club has planned for the upcoming year. This Annual Meeting will be held on Tuesday, August 18 , from 5:30-7:00 pm in the Fogelman Executive Center (330 Innovation Drive). Hors d'ouevres will be served. Join PMBA for a Networking Event on Thursday, August 20 , at 7:00 pm at Local Downtown (2126 Madison Avenue). Featured guest speaker, Jason Wexler, Memphis Grizzlies President of Business Operations, will be on hand for a question and answer session. Cash bar will be available. For more information or to RSVP to either event, please contact semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law Alumni Chapter Join the Law Alumni Chapter for the annual Pillars of Excellence awards presentation and dinner presented by Argent Trust on Saturday, August 22 , at the Holiday Inn on the UofM campus at 6:00 pm . Recipients include Hon. George H. Brown, Joe M. Duncan, Hon. David S. Kennedy (BS '67, JD '70), Arnold E. Perl, Julia S. Sayle (JD '70), Hon. Donn A. Southern and Blanchard E. Tual (MA '81). Kathy and J.W. Gibson will be honored as the Friends of the Law School. Click here to view more information, including the door prize &amp; live auction items. RSVP to m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461 by August 19. Memphis Pom Alumni Chapter We would like to extend a warm welcome to our newest chapter, Memphis Pom Alumni! This group will gather for their first official meeting on August 25 at 6:30 pm in the Alumni Center (635 Normal Street). Save the date for a pom competition hosted by the Memphis Pom Alumni Chapter. The competition will be held on October 24 in the UofM Field House . More information to follow. To learn more about the Memphis Pom Alumni Chapter, contact m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461. UMAR Join UMAR Garden Club on Tuesday, August 25 , at 10:00 am . The group will meet at Millstone Nursery &amp; Garden (6993 Poplar Avenue). Mary Heim, Master Gardener, will discuss terrariums. Lunch to follow at Frank Grissanti's (1022 S. Shady Grove Road). For more information or to RSVP by August 21, contact Sheryl Maxwell at 901.755.2131. Join UMAR as they tour and dine at L'Ecole Culinaire (1245 N. Germantown Parkway) on Thursday, August 27 . The tour begins at 11:00 am , followed by lunch at 11:30 am. $20 per person. For more information or to RSVP by August 21, contact Brandon Hoyer at bhoyer@memphis.edu or 901.678.1333. Enjoy dinner with UMAR's Early Bird Dinner group on Monday, September 14 , at 5:00 pm at Jim's Place East (518 Perkins Extended). For more information or to RSVP by September 9, contact Ann Harbor at aharbor@memphis.edu or 901.756.6343. UMAR's Book Club will meet on Tuesday, September 22, at 11:30 am at T he Grove Grill (4550 Poplar Avenue) to hear Lisa Eldin lead a discussion about the selected book, All the Light We Cannot See by Anthony Doerr. For more information or to RSVP for any of these events, contact Alumni Coordinator Brandon Hoyer at bhoyer@memphis.edu or 901.678.1333. Student Ambassador Board SAB recently traveled to Washington D.C. for the annual CASE Affiliated Student Advancement Programs conference. It was the first time Student Ambassadors have attended this conference, and they also presented to over 800 other attendees. The title of their presentation was "Creating Traditions and Celebrating Campus Heroes." Student Ambassadors Dalton Fulcher, Rocio Agundis and Shelby Piggott, spoke on how the University of Memphis Student Ambassadors created a new campus tradition and detailed how the Student Ambassadors developed a Veterans Day program that included military guest speakers, an honor wall of over 3,500 hand-written thank-you cards, and an on-campus march for Veterans Day led by the different branches of ROTC members. The Student Ambassadors received a lot of good feedback from the presentation and learned about many other campus programs across the nation that they plan to use to bring even more opportunities and programs to our campus. They also received the Spirit Award at conference for their enthusiasm, professionalism, and for their dedication to remaining True Blue at all times. SAB would like to thank all of our donors and sponsors that helped to make this conference possible. If you would like to donate to the Student Ambassador Board program and help our students to receive professional development training, add new campus and community-wide programming to the University of Memphis and keep our traditions alive and thriving, please click here . The annual Student Ambassador Board Retreat was held on August 15-16 at The Grove in Cordova. Members received training and planned programming and events for the fall semester. Please check back often on the SAB Facebook page or go to our website for more information about upcoming events. Save the Date: The Student Ambassador Board is pleased to present a new event on campus: the Blue Lantern Tour . This event will be held Friday, October 30 on the UofM campus, and it will be open to all students, alumni, Pouncer's Pals and local community. The Blue Lantern Tour is an initiative of the Student Ambassadors to celebrate campus traditions and figures from our rich history. The tour will feature costumed characters played by our Student Ambassadors, such as President Mynders, his ghostly daughter Elizabeth, Luther C. McClellan of the Memphis State Eight, and maybe even the King of Rock n' Roll. Guests are invited to meet our historical figures, take pictures, learn about the UofM and trick-or-treat. For more information about SAB, contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Senior Luncheon On Wednesday, September 23 , the Alumni Association will continue our newest tradition of honoring our Senior Class with an honorary luncheon hosted by our generous donor, George Johnson, with special guest speaker, President M. David Rudd. All seniors are invited to attend the luncheon in the UC Ballroom from 12:30 - 2:00 pm. Food will be provided by Aramark. All seniors who RSVP to the event will also receive a free t-shirt commemorating their final year at the UofM. For more information, contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. The Lambuth Senior Class will be honored the following day, Thursday, September 24 , in the Wilder Ballroom at 11:30 am. To RSVP and receive a complimentary t-shirt, contact k.goldsmith@memphis.edu . Band Alumni Chapter Save the date for the Ray Mullins Memorial Golf Tournament on Monday, October 5 at Mirimichi . Mark your calendars! Bandmasters will be held on Saturday, October 24 at the Liberty Bowl . More details on these events to follow. For more information on the Band Alumni Chapter, contact m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461. Herff College of Engineering Alumni Chapter Join Herff Alumni Chapter on Tuesday, October 6, on the UofM campus for a panel discussion by Six Sigma and Lean Management professionals discuss about this history and best practices of both. Please mark your calendars and contact bhoyer@memphis.edu or 901.678.1333 for further details or to RSVP. Are you an engineer requiring credit hours toward maintaining your credentials? Or An engineer seeking ways to expand your engineering network and learn valuable information that will make you more marketable to your current or future employer? Sign up for the next Herff Alumni Chapter PDH to gain industry trends. Click here to learn more. Journalism Alumni Club Save the date for the Outstanding Journalism Alumni Awards Dinner on Wednesday, October 14 , at the UofM Holiday Inn (3700 Central Avenue). Registration begins at 6:00 pm followed by dinner at 7:00 pm. Cost is $60 per person or $500 per table of ten. RSVP by October 12. For more information, contact semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043. Pouncer's Pals Calling all Tiger fans, ages 0-12! Pouncer's Pals is an exclusive club designed for little Tiger fans. Click here to learn more and sign your children up today! Members receive quarterly activity packets and exclusive events. Pouncer's Pals are getting NEW t-shirts! See a preview of the new design below: For more information contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Emerging Leaders Alumni All Emerging Leaders alumni are invited to join one of our newest groups in the Alumni Association, the Emerging Leaders Alumni group. For more information about how you can get involved with this group, contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Future Alumni of Memphis (FAM) The FAM has been happy to welcome hundreds of incoming Tigers at this summer's New Student Orientation. The goal of the student group is to raise awareness about the Alumni Association and to teach students how to be a good alum and give back to their University, through time or gifts, at an early age. Members receive the exclusive Association benefits, including discounts on textbooks and Tiger gear. To learn more about the organization or join today, click here . Have a student that is attending classes? Give the gift of membership! Young Alumni Kick off Homecoming Week with the annual Young Alumni True Blue 5k will be held on Sunday, November 1, on the UofM campus . More details to follow. For more information on Young Alumni, contact m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461. Homecoming 2015 Save the Date: Homecoming 2015 will be held on Saturday, November 7 . Our Tigers will play the Navy Midshipmen. Stay tuned for additional homecoming events! Alumni Spotlight Kim Barnett (BS '95, EMBA '99) Director of CTCE, Southwest Tennessee Community College; Ret. Sr. Manager, FedEx We are pleased to introduce our new National Alumni Association Executive Board President, Kim Barnett. Kim, Association Life Member, is serving his ninth year on the Board. He has served in leadership positions on the board including Vice President of Membership and Vice President of Finance. In addition, he has been actively involved on the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics Alumni Chapter, serving as president from 2005-06. Kim has represented the University of Memphis as a 2012 Alumni Centennial Processional Delegate and is a Blue and Gray Society Member. Kim Barnett is a retired senior manager at FedEx and is the current Director of CTCE at Southwest Tennessee Community College. He and his wife, Phyllis, have two children. Please join us in thanking Anita Vaughn for her years of dedication as President of the Board of Directors and welcoming Kim Barnett as our new leader. To view our entire National Board of Directors slate, click here . benefit spotlight The University of Memphis Alumni Association wants YOU as a benefit partner! We promote our benefit partners in our monthly e-newsletter, on our website and through social media reaching Tiger fans in Memphis and across the nation. To take advantage of this incredible marketing opportunity, all an organization has to do is offer a discount to our members that they cannot receive anywhere else.* To learn more, contact the Alumni Association at alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.5686. *We reserve the right to partner with businesses that align with the goals and values of our organization. UofM Alumni Association members receive great discounts and benefits year round. View a list of membership benefits here . For more information contact the Alumni Association at alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.ALUM. Join Now Interested in joining the Alumni Association? Click here to learn more and join now! News E-News Magazine Update Info Class Notes University News Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .