#http://www.memphis.edu/procurement/tigerbuy/po_tc.php
Purchase Order Terms and Conditions - Procurement and Contract Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Procurement and Contract Services Staff Directory Contract Services Tigerbuy and Bids Purchasing Card Travel Services Tigerbuy New Supplier/Vendor Registration Bid Calendar Current Bid Opportunities Vendor Information FAQs Tigerbuy Training Classes/Registration Tigerbuy Training Materials Home Procurement and Contract Services Tigerbuy Purchase Order Terms and Conditions Purchase Order Terms and Conditions THE ORDER - Furnish the material or services specified in full accordance with conditions printed on the face and back hereof, and any other attachments made a part of this order. TERMS OF SALE - Preferred: F.O.B. Destination, Prepaid with freight included in pricing; Acceptable: F.O.B. Destination, Prepay &amp; Add, and freight added to invoice UNLESS another point has been specified by the University of Memphis (University). No unauthorized or collect shipments accepted. IDENTIFICATION OF ORDER - The Purchase Order Number must appear on all invoices, correspondence containers, shipping papers, and packing lists. CORRESPONDENCE - All correspondence pertaining to this order must be addressed as follows: University of Memphis , Buyer Name, Procurement and Contract Services, 115 Administration Bldg, Memphis , TN 38154-3370 . BILLING INSTRUCTIONS Submit a two-part invoice within invoice within five (5) days after shipment of material. Invoice must show cash discounts. Cash discounts when authorized, will be computed from the date correct invoices are received. Send SEPARATE invoices for EACH AND EVERY shipment. Submit invoices for returnable containers, stating terms and conditions for return thereof. TAXES - Do not include Federal Excise or State Sales Tax on your invoices. University is exempt from these taxes. Appropriate certification of exemption will be furnished upon reasonable request. INVOICE TERMS - Time in connection with discounts offered will be computed from date of the delivery of the supplies or services to carrier when final inspection and acceptance are at point of origin, or from date of delivery at destination when final inspection and acceptance are at the destination point or from date correct invoice is received if the later date is later than the date of delivery. CONTRACTUAL REMEDIES - The University shall not be bound by any limitations on remedies available to the University or other TBR Institutions. Any attempt to contractually limit remedies will be void on its face. MATERIALS/EQUIPMENT - Unless specifically called for in the Purchase Order, all items shall be new and unused. The Seller warrants that the supplies delivered hereunder shall be free from all defects in material and workmanship and shall comply with all the requirements of this order for a period of ninety (90) days from the date such supplies are accepted unless otherwise provided herein. PACKING LIST - A detailed packing list showing the purchase order must accompany all shipments. INSPECTION - All supplies purchased hereunder are subject to inspection and rejection upon receipt by the University, and rejected supplies will be returned at the Seller's expense. Transportation charges paid by the University in returning rejected supplies shall be reimbursed by the Seller. The University's count shall be final and conclusive on all shipments not accompanied by a packing list. In addition to the right to return rejected supplies, in the event of delivery of supplies not in accordance with the requirements of this order, the University may notify the Seller of such damages or deficiencies and if not repaired or corrected by the Seller within ten (10) days after receipt of such notice, or such additional time as may be mutually agreed to by the University and the Seller, the University shall have the right to correct any damages, defects, insufficiencies or improprieties therein and do any other work necessary to put the supplies in condition for the use intended and the cost of such correction shall be deducted from the monies due the Seller under this order. CHANGES - The University may at any time by written instructions make changes, within the general scope of this order, in any one or more of the following: Quantity or specifications; Method of shipment or packing; and Place of delivery. If any such change causes any increase or decrease in the cost of, or time required for, performance of this order, any equitable adjustment shall be made in the order price or delivery schedule, or both and the order shall be modified in writing accordingly. Any claim by the Seller for adjustment under this paragraph must be asserted within thirty (30) days from date of receipt by the Seller of the notification of change, provided however, that the University may receive and act upon such claim asserted at any time prior to final payment under this order. VARIATIONS IN QUANTITIES - Unless otherwise specified on the face of this order, any variation in the quantities herein called for, not exceeding 10%, will be accepted as compliance with the order when caused by conditions of loading, shipping, packing or allowance in manufacturing process, and payments shall be adjusted accordingly. PAYMENT - The Seller shall be paid, upon the submission of invoices or vouchers, the prices stipulated herein for supplies delivered and accepted or services rendered in completion, less deductions, if any, in accordance with the provisions of the Tennessee Prompt Pay Act of 1985. CANCELLATION OF ORDER - This purchase order or any part thereof may be canceled by either the University or the Seller with the giving of thirty (30) days notice of intent to cancel for reasons including, but not limited to, the following: The University may cancel for costs exceeding the purchase order prices; late delivery, and failure of the Seller to comply with the terms and conditions specified herein. Seller may request cancellation of a purchase order if the Seller is prevented from performance by an act of war, order of a legal authority, act of God, or other unavoidable causes not attributed to the fault or negligence of the Seller. ERRORS - In case of error in calculation or typing, the quoted unit price will be used as the basis for correction of this order. NONDISCRIMINATION - The parties agree to comply with Title VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Executive Order 11,246 and the related regulations to each. Each party assures that it will not discriminate against any individual including, but not limited to, employees or applicants for employment and/or students because of race, religion, creed, color, gender, age, disability, veteran status or national origin. The parties also agree to take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed and that employees are treated during the employment without regard to their race, religion, creed, color, gender, age, disability, veteran status or national origin. Such action shall include, but not be limited to, the following: Employment, upgrading, demotion or transfer, recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation, and selection available to employees and applicants for employment. COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL AND STATE LAWS - The Seller shall comply with all applicable Federal and State Laws and regulations in the performance of the Contract. The Contract shall be governed by and subject to the laws of the State of Tennessee . MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEETS - An up-to-date Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) must accompany all goods requiring one in accordance with current State of Tennessee and Federal laws, rules and regulations. A copy of all Material Safety Data Sheets shall be sent to the University of Memphis, Environmental Health and Safety Office, 216 Browning Hall, Memphis, TN 38152-3340. COPYRIGHTED/LICENSED PRODUCTS - Seller must be an authorized dealer for selling copyrighted/licensed products under this purchase order. Notwithstanding this, Seller assumes responsibility for any and all liabilities associated with the selling of these products or services upon acceptance of purchase order. ACCEPTANCE OF TERMS The goods and/or services shall be furnished by the Seller subject to and in accordance with this order. Seller's acceptance of this order shall constitute agreement to be bound by and comply with all terms and conditions set forth herein. Written acceptance or shipment of all or any portion of the goods or the performance of all or any portion of the services covered by this order by the Seller shall constitute unqualified acceptance of all its terms and conditions. Any additional or different terms and conditions shall not become part of the order, despite the University's receipt thereof unless the University specifically agrees in writing to the inclusion. The Seller's quotation, if any, is incorporated and made a part of this Purchase Order only to the extent of specifying the nature and description of the goods or services ordered, and then only to the extent that such items are consistent with the other terms of this Purchase Order and/or the University's Request for Quotation. INSURANCE - Seller agrees to furnish Workers' Compensation Insurance in the amounts required by law. Public Liability and Property Damage coverage shall be for all operations under the proposal for at least $100,000 for one person and $300,000 for each accident for bodily injury or death; and for property damage at least $50,000 for each accident, plus coverage for the equipment being moved. Certificate of Insurance is to be on file with the University's Procurement and Contract Services prior to performing any work or service on the University's campus. FUNDING OUT CLAUSE - This Purchase Order is subject to the allotment of state and/or federal funds, and may be null and void unless funds have been appropriated and are available for the purchase of the service or item, which forms the basis of the Contract. SIGNATURE - Only University Purchase Orders with authorized Signatures may contractually bind the University. AUDIT - The Contractor shall maintain documentation for all charges against the TBR and payment made by the University under this Contract. The books, records and documents of the Contractor, insofar as they relate to work performed or money received under this Contract, shall be maintained for a period of three (3) full years from the date of final payment. These documents shall be subject to audit at any time and upon reasonable notice, by University or the Comptroller of the Treasury or their duly appointed representatives. The Contractor's financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS - By acceptance of this purchase order, the vendor is attesting that the vendor will not knowingly utilize the services of illegal immigrants and will not knowingly utilize the services of any subcontractor that does so in delivery of the goods/services under this order. If the vendor is discovered to have breached this attestation, the vendor shall be prohibited from supplying goods/services to any TBR institution/state for a period of one (1) year from the date of discovery of the breach. Rules of Finance and Administration, 0620. DEBARMENT CERTIFICATION - By acceptance of the Purchase Order, the vendor certifies that no principals are presently disbarred, suspended, proposed for disbarment, declared ineligible or voluntarily excluded from participation in this transaction by and State or Federal department or agency. Tigerbuy New Supplier/Vendor Registration Bid Calendar Current Bid Opportunities Vendor Information FAQs Tigerbuy Training Classes/Registration Tigerbuy Training Materials Doing Business with the University of Memphis Information on how to do business with the U of M and our e-procurement and bidding system, Tigerbuy THEPI Tennessee Higher Education Purchasing Initiative Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/28/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .