#http://www.memphis.edu/univcoll/undergraduate/bps.php
Bachelor of Professional Studies - University College - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University College About Undergraduate Graduate Resources Online Undergraduate Bachelor of Professional Studies Bachelor of Liberal Studies Baccalaureate Contract Program Online Degrees Home University College Undergraduate Bachelor of Professional Studies Bachelor of Professional Studies Students majoring in Professional Studies will select one of the following concentrations or create an individualized program of study through the Baccalaureate Contract Program. Alcohol &amp; Drug Abuse Services Students pursuing this degree typically provide services to those disabled by alcohol and drug abuse, including abusers, families, friends, colleagues, and associates. Areas of study include alcohol and drug abuse, social, administrative services and other courses relevant to this concentration. Child Development &amp; Family Studies In addition to core courses based on early childhood development, the guidelines of this concentration contain course work designed to develop skills and knowledge of the historical, social, cultural, and educational contexts of the field. Information Technology (online only) This concentration will provide students an understanding of fundamentals in administrative leadership in the technological fields, national and international technological development and communication; and gain skills in information systems, statistical methods, formal and interpersonal communication, including team and organizational relations. International Organizational Leadership (online only) Students will study the nature of bureaucratic organizations and the fundamentals of administrative leadership; reflect upon national and international organizational context and upon significant social and cultural issues raised in those contexts; and gain skills in formal and interpersonal communication. Dance Education This concentration prepares dance professionals in the area of performance, choreography, and pedagogy with emphasis on modern, ballet, and jazz technique; dance improvisation and composition; dance in the schools and in community settings; dance history; and movement analysis. Law Enforcement Administration Experienced law enforcement professionals can increase their skills in management, organizational relations, and communication; their knowledge of law enforcement administration; understanding of workplace issues that can affect productivity; and their ability to manage diversity in the workforce. Disability Studies &amp; Rehabilitation Services This concentration will provide students an understanding of the social, psychological, economic, physical, medical, and other environmental problems faced by individuals seeking disability services. Nonprofit Development &amp; Administration Students will examine how nonprofit organizations serve the community, learn about their operation and their constituencies, and will improve or develop administrative skills in order to work in the nonprofit sector. Merchandising - Apparel and Accessory Industry overview, financial planning and purchasing, visual presentation, color selection and coordination, textile identification, clothing characteristics, entrepreneurship and personal and professional development are all program components in this concentration. Organizational Leadership (also offered online) Our Organizational Leadership concentration promotes understanding of bureaucratic organizations and the fundamentals of administrative leadership. Students will explore national and international organizational contexts and significant social and cultural issues raised in those contexts; and learn skills in formal and interpersonal communication. Health Services Experienced health care professionals can build upon their training and experience in this concentration with courses in business practice, administration, interpersonal skills, policy, risk management, social context of health care, and financial management. Legal Studies Students in Legal Studies acquire the knowledge and skills needed to offer essential support to law offices, government agencies, corporations, or other professional settings in the legal field. Students also gain a solid foundation for continuing on to law school after graduation. Merchandising - Home Furnishings Students studying Home Furnishings Merchandising will provide services and expertise for housing and home furnishings, including the selection of housing, appropriate colors and textiles, space planning and room arrangement, residential kitchen planning, and marketing aspects as related to any area in residential planning, and entrepreneurship. Preschool &amp; Childcare Administration In addition to coursework in early childhood professional studies, this concentration emphasizes developing skills in fiscal management, recruiting and hiring personnel, health and safety management, board relations, marketing and public relations, and understanding the role of a liaison in professional associations and regulatory agencies. Manufacturing Technology Management This interdisciplinary focus on manufacturing supervisory skills will assist students in advancing their manufacturing careers for those already working in the industry. Students will learn skills in project planning and evaluation, work design improvement, production control, facility design, occupational safety, and statistical quality control. In addition, they will learn principles of supervision and other management skills. Early Care and Learning Students in this concentration will develop knowledge and skills in child development and learning, observation and assessment, pedagogy and research through classroom and field experiences. Students will be prepared for employment in a discipline working with children and families, and may pursue graduate training that leads to careers in education, academia, research, health professions, or social work. Emergency Management The interdisciplinary Emergency Management concentration is designed for students with a diversity of backgrounds and interest in applying that background to emergency management, community resilience to disaster, environmental hazards mitigation, emergency management response, and business continuity/disaster recovery. Human Services Students in this concentration will study philosophical orientation to the human condition; understand social structures, values and norms; human growth and development; and research social change and social and bureaucratic organizations. Technology Management Services This concentration will provide experienced technicians additional skills in management, organizational relations, and communication; understanding of workplace issues that can affect productivity; and their ability to manage diversity in the workforce. Minors Alcohol &amp; Drug Abuse Services This interdisciplinary minor examines societal alcohol and drug abuse from the perspectives of anthropology, counseling, criminal justice, psychology, and sociology. Child Development This interdisciplinary minor will attract students with majors in education, human services, nonprofit administration, psychology, social work, and related areas. Undergraduate Bachelor of Professional Studies Bachelor of Liberal Studies Baccalaureate Contract Program Online Degrees Request More Information Complete our online form for additional degree information. Online Appointments Academic Advising is available in-person, by phone and web conference. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/7/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .