#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/mapping-civil-rights/memphis-wwii.php
Memphis and World War II - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections Mapping Civil Rights Mapping Civil Rights History Early Memphis Civil War and Reconstruction Early Twentieth Century Memphis The Crump Era Memphis and World War II The Civil Rights Era Begins in Memphis Desegregation of Memphis City Schools 1968, The Sanitation Workers and Dr. King Memphis in the 1970s and 1980s Memphis Today About the Mapping Civil Rights History Project Interactive Map Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks Mapping Civil Rights Memphis and World War II Memphis and World War II During World War II, 1.2 million African Americans served in the armed forces. The majority of these men and women served in segregated units and most did not fight in combat. However, African American combat units, such as the Tuskegee Airmen, the 92nd Infantry Division, and the 761st Tank Battalion, inspired military troops and African American citizens at home. At home, the black press promoted the "Double V" campaign with the theme "Democracy: Victory over discrimination at home, and victory over fascism abroad." After labor leader A. Phillip Randolph threatened a mass march on Washington, President Roosevelt signed Executive Order 8802, which became known as the Fair Employment Practices Commission (FEPC). The commission regulated defense industries to make sure none discriminated on the basis of race, creed, color and natural origin. Memphians participated in scrap metal drives at local theaters, such as the Palace on Beale Street, and war bond drives. In one successful war bond drive, led by George W. Lee, known as the "mayor of Beale Street," black Memphians raised $303,000 to build a B-24 Consolidated Liberator bomber. Luke Weathers, a 1939 graduate of the city's Booker T. Washington High School, flew a P-51 Mustang with the Tuskegee Airmen. Weathers, who flew 71 missions in Europe over in a fourteen-month period, was honored with a parade down Beale Street and was the first black man in the city's history to receive a ceremonial "key" to the city. Luke Weathers, far left, stands outside the barracks with fellow Tuskegee Airmen. Photo courtesy of Memphis and Shelby County Room, Memphis Public Library &amp; Information Center. After the war ended, the administration of President Harry S. Truman appointed a Commission on Civil Rights, which issued its report, "To Secure These Rights," in 1947. The report's recommendations included strengthening the civil rights division of the Department of Justice, creation of a permanent FEPC as well as anti-lynching and anti-poll tax legislation. In 1948, Truman issued Executive Order 9981, which eliminated segregation in the armed forces. Sixteen years later, the Twenty-Fourth Amendment to the Constitution abolished poll taxes. James F. Estes, World War II veteran and civil rights activist/lawyer. Photo courtesy of Memphis Press-Scimitar archives, University of Memphis. A large number of African Americans who had left Memphis during in the 1930s returned in the late 1940s and early 1950s as experienced professionals with military training and college educations. Disappointingly, they returned to a Memphis that was much the same as the one they had left—highly segregated and politically exclusive. Some small but significant changes were apparent. In 1948, nine African American men were appointed to the city's police force – the first to patrol the streets since the late 1800s. Four years later, led by George W. Lee, the city's black Republicans organized support for Dwight D. Eisenhower's successful presidential campaign. However, two major events occurred in the mid-1950s that changed the history of Memphis. Mapping Civil Rights Mapping Civil Rights History Early Memphis Civil War and Reconstruction Early Twentieth Century Memphis The Crump Era Memphis and World War II The Civil Rights Era Begins in Memphis Desegregation of Memphis City Schools 1968, The Sanitation Workers and Dr. King Memphis in the 1970s and 1980s Memphis Today About the Mapping Civil Rights History Project Interactive Map Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .