#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/econ/2015FECON4810001.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus ECON 4810 Quantitative Economic Analysis Fall Semester, 2015 3.0 Credit Hours Instructor: Dr. Jamin D. Speer Phone : 901.678.1192 E - mail: jspeer@memphis.edu Office: FAB 413 Class meetin g times: Tuesday/Thursday, 9:40 - 11:05 am, FCB 370 Office Hours: Tuesdays , 2: 15 - 4:00 pm, or by appointment Course Overview : This course provides an introduction to the application of mathematical tools in economics and business . We will examine and/or review important concepts, including matrix algebra, differential and integral calculus, optimization with and without constraints, comparative statics, dynamic analysis, differential equations, and game theory. We will focus on appl ication of these concepts to economic problems. Some of this material will be familiar to you, while some of it you may have forgotten or not seen before. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: This course is intended for graduate students and advanced undergradua tes. If you are an undergraduate, y ou are required to have taken Econ 2010 and Econ 2020 before taking this course. As this is largely a math class, the most important background is familiarity with basic calculus. You are likely to struggle in this course if you have not had calculus , or if you do not remember what you learned in calculus. Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : Fundamental Methods of Mathematical Economics, by Alpha Chiang and Kevin Wainwright (4 th edition) p. 2 Location of Course Materials : I will regularly post class materials ( homework assignments, announcements, exam solutions, etc. ) on the eCourseware web site . Please check it regularly. Course Objectives : By successfully completing this course, students will be able to : 1. Perform important set operations. 2. Maximize functions of one or more variables. 3. Maximize functions of one or more variables when there exist one or more constraints. 4. Solve systems of equations using matrix algebra. 5. Define important concepts including sets, intersections, unions, and real numbers. 6. Solve basic problems of integration. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman College . You should take the time to become familiar with th e overall learning objectives as a student in the BBA program : Grading and Evaluation Criteria Your grade will be based on a mixture of assignments, exams, a nd attendance, as described below. Final Course Grades Final course grades are earned according to the following table : Point Range Assigned Grad e 90 - 100 A 8 0 - 89 B 70 - 79 C 60 - 70 D Under 60 F p. 3 accordance with this grading scheme, at my own discretion. For example, a grade of 91 might merit a grade of A - minus. Summary of Graded Activities Points earned on the assessed activities will be distributed as follows: Item % of Grade Problem Sets 35 Midterm Exam 30 Final Exam 30 Attendance and Participation 5 You are expected to attend and participate in class. This essentially means: 1) show up to class regularly (an absence here and there is okay, but you should not make it a habit), 2) pay attention (no texting, facebook, etc.) and 3) be willing to answer questions or work on the board when asked. I f you need to miss more than a couple of classes for some reason, please talk to me. There will be 6 problem sets based on lecture material and the textbook. You may work together, but all students are required to turn in their own work . If this requirement is not followed, credit will not be given. There will be a midterm exam held in class halfway through the course . All mater ial covered in the book, lectures , and problem sets will be fair game. Finally, there will be a final exam , which will be cumulative but will focus more heavily on the second half of the course. Important Dates (Dates are subject to change, through class announcements) September 17 : Problem set 1 due October 1 : Problem set 2 due October 15 : Problem set 3 due October 22 : Midterm exam November 5 : Problem set 4 due November 19 : Problem set 5 due December 5 : Problem set 6 due December 8: Final exam Final Exam Schedule The final exam for this class will be Tuesday, December 8, at 10:30 am in the regular class meeting room. p. 4 Course Topics : Set theory and functions (~1 week) M atrices and matrix algebra (~4 - 5 weeks) Derivatives (~1 week) Logarithms and exponential functions (~1 week) Unconstrained optimization (~2 weeks) Constrained optimization (~2 weeks) Integratio n and differential equations (~1 week ) Dynamic analysis and Bellman equations (if time permits) Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account . You will receive all o fficial course correspondence at this email account . Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not regularly responsibility. Computers: You may not use a laptop during class. This is for several reasons. First, the material will be hand - written on the board, and you will want to take notes by hand. Second, studies show that students who take notes by hand do significantly better in class than those w ho use laptops. Third, computers are distracting to students around you. You may bring a laptop, but I expect it to be turned off by the time class begins. Attendance: Although I will not take formal attendance, I expect you to be in class every time we me et. Based on past teaching of this course, I can tell you that students who miss class perform significantly worse than students who attend regularly. Your general attendance and participation in class will factor into your grade (see grading section of th is syllabus). Adding / Dropping : I f you have questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to th is page on the . Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. Note that using a Solutions Manual is considered c heating . Should your professor have evidence that using a Solutions Manual has occurred, he/she may take steps Office of Student Conduct website . If you have p. 5 any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Participation: To be successful in this cou rse as a student, you must stay active and involved throughout the entire semester. This involves showing up to class, asking questions when needed, and answering questions when called upon. Classroom Behavior: All participants in the course should be considerate of the other course participants and treat them with respect. This involves, among other things, not talking while instruction is taking place. If you disrupt class, I will ask you to leave. Late Assignm ents: Assignments will only receive full credit if turned in by the due date specified by the professor. The only exception to this policy will be for official school - approved absences (school a thletics, etc.) or in other extreme cases. discretion of the professor. If you feel that you have a reason to turn in late work that should qualify, please come talk to me. Problem sets turned in within a week of the due date will receive half credit at most. Extra Credit: I do not plan to offer extra credit in this course. Your final grade will be computed based on your work on the formal/assessed activities previously described in this syllabus. However, individual assignments and exams may offer extra credit in the form of bonus questions or more than 100 points being possible. Inclement Weather: In the event that inclement weather requires the cancellation of classes at T he University of Memphis, local radio and television media will be immedi ately notified . Additionally, T he University of Memphis has established an I nclement Weather Hotline at 678 - 0888 as well as TigerText , an emergency alert text messaging service to students, faculty and staff. This optional service is used in the event of an on - campus emergency, an unscheduled university closing, or a delay or cancellation of classes due to, for instance, inclement weather . Click Here for information on TigerText. Syllabus Changes: The instructor reserves the right to make changes as necessary to this syllabus. If changes are necessitated during the term of the course, the instructor will immediately notify students of such changes both in class and by posting on ECourseware. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : p. 6 Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance