#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/getinvolved/student/sab.php
Student Ambassador Board - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About Get Involved Academic Chapters Arts &amp; Sciences School of Law CEHHS Communication Sciences &amp; Disorders FCBE Engineering International MBA Journalism Kemmons Wilson School School of Nursing Masters of Public Administration Music Professional MBA University College Constituent Groups Band Frosh Camp Half Century Hispanic Alumni Lambuth Luther C. McClellan Memphis Pom UMAR Young Alumni Out of Town Atlanta Chicago Dallas Denver Houston Indianapolis Minneapolis Nashville New England New Orleans New York Orlando/Tampa San Francisco St. Louis Washington, DC Student Groups Future Alumni of Memphis Student Ambassador Board Scholarships Pouncer's Pals Home UMAA Get Involved Student Ambassador Board Student Ambassador Board The Student Ambassador Board is an exclusive group of highly motivated and dedicated students that help host Alumni Association and Presidential events. It is the liaison between the administration, alumni, current student body, prospective students and the Memphis community. The Student Ambassador Board also sponsors Mudball each fall, which helps fund our scholarship, the J. Wayne Johnson Scholarship, which is awarded each spring to outstanding seniors. Members meet monthly host each of the University's Commencement ceremonies. The Student Ambassador Board is proud to announce that the board is currently expanding to include a new group of Student Ambassadors at the University of Memphis at Lambuth campus. The new SAB-Lambuth board will consist of 10 students who will also become full-time members of the current Student Ambassador Board. The expanded board will also be under the guidance and supervision of the Alumni Association and uphold all standards and policies of the current Student Ambassador Board. As always, the purpose of the Student Ambassador Board is to serve as the liaisons between the student body, the administration, the alumni and the entire university and surrounding communities. Members will represent the university on main campus and at Lambuth at presidential, alumni &amp; community events and also at reunions, commencements, parent's weekend, Homecoming and other special requests as determined by the University of Memphis Alumni Association. Click here to purchase your Veterans Day t-shirt! A portion of the proceeds from this shirt will benefit the Dr. M. David Rudd Fund for the benefit of U.S. Military Veterans and special programming on the UofM campus for veterans and ROTC members. apply to be on the board! Interested in joining SAB? Contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. J. Wayne Johnson Scholarship The deadline for the 2015 J. Wayne Johnson Scholarship has passed. Full-time undergraduate students who are classified as juniors or seniors, OR graduating seniors who are attending graduate school at UofM with a 2.75 overall GPA are eligible. The number of deserving and qualified applicants will determine the amount. To be nominated, a student must receive an endorsement by one of the chartered campus organizations president or advisor. Congratulations to the 2014-2015 J. Wayne Johnson Scholarship recipients Mary Garcia and Russell Copeland, Jr.! Thank you to everyone for their continued support of our students and student ambassadors! Make a Gift to SAB The Student Ambassador Board is currently reaching out to all SAB members both past and present. We are seeking donations from our SAB family that will afford our students the best possible experience and training. While the Student Ambassador Board receives funding from the University, there are additional needs, costs, and projects that SAB would like to include in their future programming. Gifts from our SAB family are vital to cover these costs. Your gift will help to train and develop professionally all of our student ambassadors. Click here to make a gift to SAB Click here to make a gift to SAB Lambuth Presidential Leadership Recognition Congratulations to our Student Ambassador Board for being awarded the President's Leadership Recognition award for Most Spirited Organization. This is the second year in a row our board has been honored! Request Student Ambassadors for an event Our Student Ambassadors may be utilized for your on-campus events! To request Student Ambassadors, please complete this request form and submit it to jpsavell@memphis.edu . Recent Events Veterans Day SAB lead a Veterans Day March and assisted in the display of a memory wall on campus. As part of Veterans Day, Tiger Troops and SAB collected items for the "Tiger Gear for Tiger Troops" service drive. SAB Mudball 2015 SAB recently held the annual Mudball Tournament. This year's event had an Avengers, Age of Ultramud theme and had over 400 students in attendance. SAB raised over $4,000 at the event. Special thank you to our generous sponsors: B&amp;C Construction, Memphis Fire Department, Memphis Imprint, Garibaldi's Pizza, Yarbrough's Music, Dick's Sporting Goods, Tiger Promotions, Jupiter Comics, Malco Theatres, Inc., Q-Mark Gas Stations, Justice Allen, Kala Bonner, Dean of Students at the University of Memphis, Hispanic Alumni Council, Choose901, Student Government Association, TigerLIFE, Lost Pizza Company, Payne's BBQ and Chick-fil-A. Visit our Photo Gallery to view photos SAB 3 on 3 Basketball Tourney SAB hosted a 3 on 3 basketball tournament with 15 teams on February 28. View photos 2015-2016 Officers President: Michael Barbour Executive Vice President: Jared Moses VP of Communications: Shelby Piggott VP of Programming, Co-Chairs: Dalton Fulcher and Bradford Pippen Historian: Rocio Agundis 2015-16 student Ambassador board Rocio Agundis Justice Allen Emily Autrey Annika Bailey Michael Barbour Kala Bonner Caroline David Dalton Fulcher Zac Gillam SheChinah Hampton Jordan Hartwell Trevor Kelley Alicia Kingston David Knowles Realan Lewis Lily Mastron Andrew Mok Jared Moses Andreas Nunley Shelby Piggott Bradford Pippen Bobby Prince Javian Smith Corey Tomlin Armaan Virani Lilly Williams 2015-16 student ambassador board - lambuth Joshua Shaw Ben Bishop Marygrace Burnett Elizabeth Holmes Amanda Ibrahim Lauren Ingle Darryl Perry Mario Lopez-Rodriguez Renard Miles Sam Megelsh Watch this video by President Gabriel Okpah, recorded at Vision Forum 2014, to learn more about the Student Ambassador Board and how you can get involved! For more information about the Student Ambassador Board, contact Alumni Coordinator Jacki Rodriguez at jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Get Involved Academic Chapters Arts &amp; Sciences School of Law CEHHS Communication Sciences &amp; Disorders FCBE Engineering International MBA Journalism Kemmons Wilson School School of Nursing Masters of Public Administration Music Professional MBA University College Constituent Groups Band Frosh Camp Half Century Hispanic Alumni Lambuth Luther C. McClellan Memphis Pom UMAR Young Alumni Out of Town Atlanta Chicago Dallas Denver Houston Indianapolis Minneapolis Nashville New England New Orleans New York Orlando/Tampa San Francisco St. Louis Washington, DC Student Groups Future Alumni of Memphis Student Ambassador Board Scholarships Pouncer's Pals Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .