#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/news/memphismattersjuly2015.php
Memphis Matters - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About News E-News Magazine Update Info Class Notes University News Home UMAA News Memphis Matters UMAR Coffee &amp; Conversation Join the University of Memphis Association of Retirees &amp; featured guest speaker, Dr. Albert Okunade , for the annual Coffee &amp; Conversation event. Memphis Mayoral Debate UofM and The Commercial Appeal Will Host Mayoral Debate August 19 University News Stay up-to-date on student and faculty accomplishments, college updates and upcoming events. Lambuth Campus Update The spirit of Lambuth lives on! Learn more about initiatives and changes on the campus. Club and Chapter News Mark your calendar for these upcoming Alumni Association events including: UMAR monthly events, PMBA Networking Events and more! Alumni Spotlight Meet College of Arts and Sciences alumna Mary Anne McCraw. Benefit Spotlight As a Memphis alum, you can take advantage of simplified and worry-free protection when it comes to securing essential auto, homeowners, life and health insurance. law alumni chapter Pillars of excellence Join the Law Alumni Chapter for the annual Pillars of Excellence awards presentation and dinner presented by Argent Trust on Saturday, August 22, at the Holiday Inn on the UofM campus. The cocktail reception begins at 6:00 pm followed by dinner at 7:00 pm. The Chapter will honor individuals with 45 years of exemplary service to the Memphis Legal and Civic Community. Recipients include Hon. George H. Brown, Joe M. Duncan, Hon. David S. Kennedy (BS '67, JD '70), Arnold E. Perl, Julia S. Sayle (JD '70), Hon. Donn A. Southern and Blanchard E. Tual (MA '81). Kathy and J.W. Gibson will be honored as the Friends of the Law School. Click here to learn more. RSVP to m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461 by August 19. Thank you to our generous sponsors: Title Sponsor: Argent Trust Cocktail Sponsor: Glassman, Wyatt, Tuttle &amp; Cox, P.C. Pillar Sponsor: Farris Bobango PLC For more information about sponsorship opportunities, click here . UMAR Coffee &amp; Conversation Join the University of Memphis Association of Retirees and UofM President M. David Rudd for a Coffee &amp; Conversation event on Tuesday, September 8, from 10:00 am-12:00 pm in the University Center Fountain View Suite (located on UofM campus). Dr. Albert Okunade , professor in the Department of Economics and 2015 Willard R. Sparks Eminent Faculty Award recipient, will be this year's featured guest speaker. The cost is $5 and includes brunch and parking in Zach Curlin Garage. RSVP by September 4 to bhoyer@memphis.edu or 901.678.1333. Mayoral Debate As the Memphis mayor's race heats up, the University of Memphis and InforMemphis are partnering to host an event that will help inform voters on our city's issues. The Commercial Appeal's InforMemphis team will conduct a debate with mayoral candidates on Wednesday, August 19 , at 6:30 p.m. in the Michael D. Rose Theatre on campus. Admission is free, but tickets are required for entry to the event. Tickets may be requested at informemphis.eventbrite.com . Candidates Harold Collins , Jim Strickland , A C Wharton and Mike Williams have committed to attend. "The UofM is pleased to host the Memphis mayoral debate and provide a venue for a forum so important to our city's future," said President M. David Rudd. "We look forward to seeing a full house and having a lively discussion." InforMemphis team leader Kyle Veazey will moderate the debate. University News Donors Support University of Memphis at Record-Breaking Levels The University of Memphis has surpassed its annual fundraising record of $31,879,003, set in fiscal year 2013, by securing $37,674,471 in gifts and commitments during the fiscal year that ended June 30. The total includes gifts of cash, pledges and planned gifts to the University of Memphis Foundation, and gifts-in-kind and private grants to the UofM and University of Memphis Research Foundation. The new record represents a groundswell of support from many more donors, 10,359 in all, compared to 9,557 in the previous year. The number of alumni who supported the UofM grew by more than 14 percent. Read More Tennessee Board of Regents Approves New Graduate Tuition Proposal The Tennessee Board of Regents (TBR) has approved the expansion of the 250-R program – which was initially for undergraduate students only ­– to include graduate students beginning this fall. This program offers reduced out-of-state tuition to graduate students who have a permanent address inside a county within a 250-mile radius of the University of Memphis main campus but do not currently qualify for the border county classification or other in-state residency classification. Read More Lambuth Campus Update Save the date for Lambuth True Blue Day on October 24, from 10:00 am - 5:00 pm on the UofM Lambuth campus. The day will begin with coffee &amp; donuts with former and current faculty. Activities to follow include: lunch on the lawn, Distinguished Alumni Awards, tours of campus and competitive games. Children are welcome. For more information or to RSVP by October 9, contact rsvp@memphis.edu . Learn more about Lambuth today: •20 bachelor degrees, 5 master's degrees, and 2 doctoral degrees in a variety of areas •Nationally ranked by U.S. News and World Report on the Honor Roll for Teacher Quality in the teacher preparation area •Military Friendly Schools list for 2015 •Nationally ranked by U.S. News and World Report for top 10 best internship programs in the United States •Ranked 14th best online RN to BSN program nationally •Ranked in the top 25 online MBA programs across the US by The Princeton Review •MSN online program ranked in the top 100 by U.S. News &amp; World Report •Over 50 study abroad programs available •National collegiate honors program available •Enrollment of 850 students •Average ACT score for entering students is 22 •UofM Lambuth is a designated Arboretum •Home of the M.D. Anderson Planetarium •Jackson, Tennessee designated "most livable" small city in the U.S. by the U.S. Conference of Mayors •Scholarships are available - Contact us for more information! Club &amp; Chapter News UMAR Enjoy lunch with UMAR's Book Club , Tuesday, July 28 , at 11:30 am at The Grove Grill (4550 Poplar Avenue), as they discuss The Great Reformer: Francis and the Making of a Radical Pope by Austen Iverigh. The book club meets on the fourth Tuesday of every other month. Join UMAR for a Mix &amp; Match at Pyramid Vodka (802 Royal Avenue), Thursday, July 30 , at 10:00 am , as they tour the facility to learn about how vodka is made, followed by a tasting. The group will meet for lunch on their own at Tug's (The River Inn of Harbor Town, 51 Harbor Town Square, Memphis, TN 38103) at 11:30 am . Feel free to come to both or just one. Following lunch, the group will visit new Bass Pro Shop in the Pyramid. RSVPs are required, as space is limited. Please RVSP by Friday, June 24. Early Bird Dinner: Canceled in July; will resume on August 3. Join the University of Memphis Association of Retirees and UofM President M. David Rudd for a Coffee &amp; Conversation event on Tuesday, September 8, from 10:00 am-12:00 pm in the University Center Fountain View Suite (located on UofM campus). Dr. Albert Okunade, professor in the Department of Economics and 2015 Willard R. Sparks Eminent Faculty Award recipient, will be this year's featured guest speaker. The cost is $5 and includes brunch and parking in Zach Curlin Garage. RSVP by September 4 to bhoyer@memphis.edu or 901.678.1333. For more information or to RSVP for any of these events, contact Alumni Coordinator Brandon Hoyer at bhoyer@memphis.edu or 901.678.1333. Student Ambassador Board The Student Ambassador Board (SAB) is proud to announce that the board is currently expanding to include a new group of Student Ambassadors at the University of Memphis at Lambuth campus. The new SAB-Lambuth board will consist of 10 students who will also become full-time members of the current Student Ambassador Board. The expanded board will also be under the guidance and supervision of the Alumni Association and uphold all standards and policies of the current Student Ambassador Board. As always, the purpose of the Student Ambassador Board is to serve as the liaisons between the student body, the administration, the alumni and the entire university and surrounding communities. Members will represent the university on main campus and at Lambuth at presidential, alumni &amp; community events and also at reunions, commencements, parent's weekend, Homecoming and other special requests as determined by the University of Memphis Alumni Association. Interviews for the new board were held this week and we are excited to welcome our newest board members. The SAB-Lambuth members are: Joshua Shaw, Ben Bishop, Marygrace Burnett, Amanda Ibrahim, Lauren Ingle, Lara Beth Cherry, Darryl Perry, Mario Lopez-Rodriguez, Renard Miles, and Sam Megelsh . Congratulations to all of these students and welcome to the SAB family! August marks an exciting month for SAB. As we are welcoming our newest SAB-Lambuth members, we are also preparing to travel to Washington D.C. for the annual CASE ASAP (Council for Advancement and Support of Education and the Affiliated Student Advancement Programs) conference on August 5-9 . The conference is comprised of student alumni associations, student foundations and other similar university organizations from over 300 other universities. The goal of the conference is to foster and enhance student involvement in all areas of advancement and university programming. Student Ambassadors, Rocio Agundis and Dalton Fulcher, will be traveling to D.C. to represent the University of Memphis and the Student Ambassador Board at the conference. They were also chosen to be one of 25 presenters that were selected from all of the attending universities nationwide. Our SABs have chosen "Creating Traditions and Celebrating our Campus Heroes" as their presentation topic and as such will be speaking about the role of the Student Ambassadors on campus. They will also be discussing some of their programming ranging from the Mudball event, which has been a campus tradition for 30 years to the new Veterans Day Program established by SAB last year to celebrate our student veterans and Tiger Troop veterans. The Student Ambassador Board would like to thank the Alumni Association and our alumni donors for continuing to support the board and also for sponsoring SAB so that they could attend this conference and present on behalf of the University of Memphis. The annual Student Ambassador Board retreat will also be held on August 15-16 at The Grove in Cordova. During the retreat, we will be training our new members and also creating and planning our programming and events for the fall semester. Please check back often on the SAB Facebook page or go to the SAB website for more information about upcoming events such as the SAB Blue Lantern Tour or the Veterans Day program. For more information about how you can get involved with this group, contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Professional MBA Alumni Club Alumni and new students are invited to meet with the leadership of the Fogelman College and the Professional MBA Alumni Board to discuss updates from the College and what the Alumni Club has planned for the upcoming year. This Annual Meeting will be held on Tuesday, August 18 , from 5:30-7:00 pm in the Fogelman Executive Center (330 Innovation Drive). Hors d'ouevres will be served. Please RSVP by Friday, August 14. Join PMBA for a Networking Event on Thursday, August 20 , at 7:00 pm at Local Downtown (2126 Madison Avenue). Featured guest speaker, Jason Wexler , Memphis Grizzlies President of Business Operations, will be on hand for a question and answer session. Cash bar will be available. Please RSVP by Tuesday, August 18. For more information or to RSVP to either event, please contact semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law Alumni Chapter The Law School's Class of 2005 reunited to celebrate ten years on June 20. View Photos Join the Law Alumni Chapter for the annual Pillars of Excellence awards presentation and dinner presented by Argent Trust on Saturday, August 22 , at the Holiday Inn on the UofM campus at 6:00 pm. Recipients include Hon. George H. Brown, Joe M. Duncan, Hon. David S. Kennedy (BS '67, JD '70), Arnold E. Perl, Julia S. Sayle (JD '70), Hon. Donn A. Southern and Blanchard E. Tual (MA '81). Kathy and J.W. Gibson will be honored as the Friends of the Law School. RSVP to m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461 by August 19. Emerging Leaders Alumni All Emerging Leaders alumni are invited to join our newest group in the Alumni Association, the Emerging Leaders Alumni group. For more information about how you can get involved with this group, contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Future Alumni of Memphis (FAM) The FAM has been happy to welcome hundreds of incoming Tigers at this summer's New Student Orientation. To learn more about the organization, click here . Homecoming 2015 Save the Date: Homecoming 2015 will be held on Saturday, November 7 . Our Tigers will play the Navy Midshipmen. Stay tuned for additional homecoming events! Council of Alumni Marketing and Membership Professionals (CAMMP) The University of Memphis Alumni Association was pleased to host the 2015 CAMMP Conference. We welcomed alumni marketing professionals from over 125 different colleges and universities from across the nation to our campus. The group was able to learn from the best in the business while experience the best of what Memphis has to offer! Alumni Spotlight Mary Anne McCraw (BS '94, MS '13) Mary Anne McCraw has such a love for University of Memphis that she came back to work on campus three times while earning two degrees from the UofM. "I've always found the professors, research and classes to be vibrant, exciting portals to new ideas and innovation." Her biology studies (1994) and work on campus as a student in the former Computing Center and the Physics Department helped contribute to a successful career in health care at St. Joseph Hospital and Baptist Memorial Health Care. After working in patient clinical areas for 20 years, McCraw transitioned to the corporate setting, helping design Baptist's first website and winning numerous web awards for Baptist's Internet sites and online health magazine. While completing a master's degree in instructional design and technology (2013), she worked on campus as manager of the IDT Studio in the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences. As a graduate student she was afforded many opportunities: to learn best practices and the latest research in IDT; publish and present a research paper at a national IDT conference; do research for FedEx; and work as project manager developing online classes for University of Mississippi and Baptist College of Health Sciences, where she is currently employed. As current president of the College of Arts and Sciences Alumni Chapter, McCraw has enjoyed working with a highly dedicated and committed board to host numerous events, including the annual alumni awards event that helps fund six student book scholarships each year. One of the unique features of our chapter is it's representation of the largest college in the Tennessee Board of Regents system, comprising 24 academic units, the ROTC, multiple research centers, and two Centers of Excellence. Because of the diversity of our alumni majors, we are able to honor alumni from a wide range of professions at our awards event every year. Past awards recipients include: city planners, judges, weathermen, attorneys, hospital administrators, and philanthropists. McCraw was honored to take part in the Investiture of UofM's 12th President, Dr. M. David Rudd, by participating in the alumni processional. "By being active in the Alumni Association, I am able attend events where I meet University of Memphis administrators to learn about future UofM initiatives and cutting-edge research, as well as meet and reconnect with fellow graduates. It's still as exciting to be on campus as it was my first semester!" The Arts &amp; Sciences Chapter's future plans include increased involvement, growing alumni membership, and endowing the student scholarships fund. However, none of that is possible without each and every one of our alumni. Mary Ann invites all CAS alumni to join the Alumni Association and get involved in the Chapter. Join today or learn more about the Chapter . benefit spotlight: Mercer The University of Memphis Alumni Association's commitment to you extends far beyond class reunions and Homecoming. As a Memphis alum, you can take advantage of special rates and discounts for auto, homeowners, life and health insurance through Mercer Consumer, a service of Mercer Health &amp; Benefits Administration LLC, and well-known providers such as Liberty Mutual Insurance. This means you can secure essential protection worry-free. To learn more and enroll, click here or call 1-888-560-ALUM (2586). UofM Alumni Association members receive great discounts and benefits year round. Learn about the over 300 other membership benefits here . For more information contact the Alumni Association at alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.ALUM. Join Now Interested in joining the Alumni Association? Click here to learn more and join now! News E-News Magazine Update Info Class Notes University News Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .