#http://www.memphis.edu/philosophy/news-events/
News &amp; Events - Philosophy - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Philosophy BA Graduate People Research News &amp; Events Resources SJP Contact News &amp; Events Current News Events Spindel Conference Philosophy Graduate Student Conference Ida B. Wells Conference Sophia Newsletter 2013 2010 2009 SJP Newsletter 2012 2011 2010 Home Philosophy News &amp; Events Current News Dissertations Defenses 2015 Congratulations to Dr. Sarah Vincent and Dr. Joshua Dohmen, who successfully defended their dissertations this month. Sarah, whose dissertation is titled "Empathy's Significance for the Moral Status of Nonhuman Animals," is taking up a post-doc position at York University in Toronto this fall. Josh wrote a dissertation on epistemic injustice, Julia Kristeva, and disability; he is starting a position as Visiting Assistant Professor at the University of Arkansas-Little Rock in August. Professor Stephan Blatti to Serve as Interim Chair Professor Stephan Blatti, Associate Professor and Director of the Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities, will serve as Interim Chair of the Philosophy Department effective June 1. Professor Blatti, whose primary research interest is in metaphysics, joined the department in 2008. Since his arrival, he has served the Department as well as the University in many ways, including as Editor of the Southern Journal of Philosophy, Director of the Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities, and affiliate faculty member of the Institute for Intelligent Systems. The faculty, staff, and students of the Philosophy Department thank Professor Blatti for his service and leadership. Professor Anderson Delivered Procter Memorial Lecture at Wellesley College Professor Luvell Anderson delivered the Thomas Hayes Procter Memorial Lecture at Wellesley College in Wellesley, MA, on March 11. In his lecture, titled "Can White People Appreciate Rap?," Anderson argued that certain background experiences are necessary for appreciating particular cultural art forms. Changing the Face of Philosophy In the most recent newsletter of the College of Arts and Sciences, the Philosophy Department at the University of Memphis is recognized for its efforts to contribute to diversity in the profession. With the support of the University and the Graduate School, the Provost Predoctoral Diversity Awards for qualified students of underrepresented groups have been critical in the department's success. Having already graduated ten African American philosophers, the department is currently training six Black doctoral students, four Hispanic graduate students, as well as one Asian-American student. News &amp; Events Current News Events Spindel Conference Philosophy Graduate Student Conference Ida B. Wells Conference Sophia Newsletter 2013 2010 2009 SJP Newsletter 2012 2011 2010 Apply to the Graduate Program Want to pursue a MA or PhD in Philosophy? Find out how to apply. Online B.A. Want to pursue your college degree and manage your busy lifestyle? Experience online classes at the UofM. Pre-law Advising Are you interested in a career in the legal profession? Consider a degree in Philosophy! Support the Department Find out how you can support the Department of Philosophy. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/28/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .