#http://www.memphis.edu/bitm/faculty/billkettinger.php
Bill Kettinger - BIT - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Business Information and Technology Welcome About Admissions Programs Courses Faculty Research FCBE Faculty Lloyd Brooks Judith Brown Jasbir Dhaliwal Mark Gillenson Wade M Jackson Brian Janz Bill Kettinger Naveen Kumar Richard Kumi Euntae "Ted" Lee Jong Seok Lee Robin Poston Sandra Richardson Margaret Schultz Judith Simon Thomas Stafford Chen Zhang Home BIT Faculty Bill Kettinger Bill Kettinger Department of Business Information and Technology Phone (901) 678-4547 Email wjkttngr@memphis.edu Fax (901) 678-4151 Office 346 Fogelman Administration Building, Memphis, TN 38152-3120 Office Hours About Bill Kettinger Bill Kettinger is a Professor and the FedEx Chair of Excellence in MIS at the Fogelman College of Business and Economics at The University of Memphis. He previously served as Professor of Information Systems and Moore Foundation Fellow at the Moore School of Business of the University of South Carolina. He has taught global IT management and IS research methods in International Masters of Business Administration (IMBA) and MIS PhD programs and in executive development programs both domestically and abroad. Professor Kettinger has regularly taught in the MBA programs at IMD in Lausanne Switzerland, in Vienna, Austria and at the Tecnologico de Monterrey in Mexico. He has won numerous teaching awards. In 2013, he was awarded a Fulbright Professorship to Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien, Vienna Austria. Dr. Kettinger has over 100 publications including 4 books, over 70 refereed journal articles in such journals as MIS Quarterly, Information Systems Research, JMIS, JAIS, EJIS, ISJ, Decision Sciences, and Sloan Management Review, numerous monographs, book chapters, proceedings, and teaching cases. He was ranked as 29th in the world among authors publishing in the AIS 6 top journals (senior scholar basket of top MIS academic journals) over the twenty-year period 1993-2013 and listed as one of the MIS Quarterly most prolific authors. He currently serves as a Senior Editor of MISQ and MISQ Executive and serves, or has served, as an Associate Editor of MIS Quarterly, Information Systems Research and JAIS and has twice served as a special editor for JMIS. He completed a 3 year study sponsored by Accenture and IMD that discovered a new measure of effective information use (Information Orientation) that predicts business performance. Based on this research project, he coauthored, Making the Invisible, Visible: How Companies Win with the Right Information, People and IT published by John Wiley Press, which provides a practical guide to managers developing strategic measures of information assets and knowledge management effectiveness. This book was cited in the Wall Street Journal in 2011 as a CIO 'must read'. Scholarly results and discussion of this research project appear in Information Orientation: The Link to Business Performance by Oxford University Press. He also co-edited Process Think: Winning Perspectives for Business Change in the Information Age that examines the evolution and practical application of the process change movement. Bill has over 30 years consulting experience in both the public and private sectors with such organizations as Accenture, AT&amp;T, Cambridge Technology Partners, IBM, Bose, Renaissance Interactive and Philips. He has been the recipient of numerous research awards such as th Society of Information Management's best paper award honoring outstanding work in the field of information systems. He also directed a SIM Advanced Practice Council multi-year international study of the business drivers of IT value. Bill served as Assistant Dean for the USC Business School from 1988 to 1993 and has been the principal investigator on several million dollars' worth of grants and gifts. He also served as the Director of the USC Center of Information Management and Technology Research from 1993-2004. He received his Ph.D. and an M.S. from the University of South Carolina and an M.P.A. from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and a B.S. from Northeastern University. Education Doctor of Philosophy, The University of South Carolina Master of Science, The University of South Carolina Master of Public Administration, The University of Massachusetts at Amherst Bachelor of Science, Northeastern University Interests Teaching Interests PhD Research Seminar; IT Management &amp; Planning; IT for MBAs Research Interests Strategic Information Management; Digital Business Strategy; IS Management &amp; Service Quality; IT and the Supply Chain; IT-enabled Control of Professionals; Process Redesign Selected Research Hu, T., Kettinger, W.J. and Poston, R.S. 2015. "The Effect of Online Social Value on Satisfaction and Continued Use of Social Media," European Journal of Information Systems (24:4), pp. 391-410. Abstract Kettinger, W.J., Li,Y., Davis, J.M., and Kettinger, L. 2015. "The roles of psychological climate, information management capabilities, and IT support on knowledge-sharing: an MOA perspective," European Journal of Information Systems (24:1), pp. 59-75. Abstract Richardson, S., Kettinger, W.J., Banks, S.B., and Quintana, Y. 2014. "IT and Agility in the Social Enterprise: A Case Study of St Jude Children's Research Hospital's "Cure4Kids" IT-Platform for International Outreach," Journal of the Association for Information Systems (15:1), pp. 1-32. Abstract Kettinger, W.J., Zhang, C. and Chang K., 2013. "A View from the Top: Integrated Information Delivery and Effective Information Use from the Senior Executive's Perspective," Information Systems Research, 24(3), pp. 842-860. Abstract Wakolbinger, T., Toyasaki, F., and Kettinger, W.J. 2013. "The Value of Information Systems for Product Recovery Management," International Journal of Production Research, (51:4), pp. 1214-1235. Fayard, D., Lee, L., Leitch, A.,and Kettinger, W.J., 2012. "Effect of Internal Cost Management, Information Systems Integration, and Absorptive Capacity on Interorganizational Cost Management in Supply Chains," Accounting Organization &amp; Society, (37:3), pp. 168-187. Abstract Kettinger, W.J., Zhang, C. and Marchand, D.A. 2011, "CIO and Business Executive Leadership Approaches to Establishing Company-wide Information Orientation," MISQ Executive, 2011, Vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 157-174. Abstract Kettinger, W.J. and Marchand, D.A. 2011. "Information Management Practices (IMP) from the Senior Manager's Perspective: An Investigation of the IMP Construct and Its Measurement," Information Systems Journal (21:5), pp. 385–406. Abstract Kettinger, W. J., and Li Y., 2010. "The Infological Equation Extended: Towards Conceptual Clarity in the Relationship between Data, Information and Knowledge," European Journal of Information Systems (19:4), pp. 409-421. Abstract Davis, J. M., Kettinger, W. J., and Kuney, D. G. 2009. "When Users are IT Experts Too: The Effects of Joint IT Competence and Partnership on Satisfaction with Enterprise-level Systems Implementation," European Journal of Information Systems (18:1), pp. 26-37. Abstract Li, Y., and Kettinger, W. J. 2006. "An Evolutionary Information-Processing Theory of Knowledge Creation," Journal of the Association of Information Systems (JAIS) (7:1), pp. 93-617. Abstract Kettinger, W. J., and Lee, C. 2005. "Zones of Tolerance: Alternative Scales for Measuring Information Systems Service Quality," MIS Quarterly (29:4), pp. 607-623. Abstract Kohli, R., and Kettinger, W.J., 2004, "Informating the Clan: Controlling Physician Costs and Outcomes," MIS Quarterly (28:3), pp. 363-394. Abstract For a more comprehensive list of Dr. Kettinger's publications click here. Faculty Lloyd Brooks Judith Brown Jasbir Dhaliwal Mark Gillenson Wade M Jackson Brian Janz Bill Kettinger Naveen Kumar Richard Kumi Euntae "Ted" Lee Jong Seok Lee Robin Poston Sandra Richardson Margaret Schultz Judith Simon Thomas Stafford Chen Zhang BIT News Publications, recognitions and spotlights about faculty and students of the BIT department. BIT Events Find out what's happening at the department and visit our weekly colloquium. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/23/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .