#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2004-2005/0904min.pdf
UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES AND RESEARCH MINUTES 3 September 2004 Meeting Number 349 Present: D. Arant (UColl), L. Bennett (CAS), S. Blanton (POLS), L. Brooks (MIS), M. Butler (GSA), Linda Clemens (HSS), C. Danehower (FCBE), K. Kreitner (Music), R. Koch (NURS), D. Larsen (ESCI), M. Logan (CCFA), T. McInish (FIR), C. Purtle (ART), E. Rakow (COE), S. Slack (BIOM), D. Wark (AUSP), B. Weltman-Aron (FLL) Ex Officio: J. Brownlee (GS), K. Weddle-West (Assistant VPGS) Absent: Charles V. Camp (CIVL), A. Meyers (VPR) The meeting was called to order at 2.10 pm. 349.1. E. Rakow moved (2/L. Bennett) that the minutes of Meetings No. 347, 4/2/04, and No. 348, 7/7/04 be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. 349.2 Announcements: 349.2.1 K. Weddle-West announced the National Academy of Education/Spencer 2005 Postdoctoral Fellowships and the Graduate School™s internal awards and fellowships. Flyers were distributed. Last year four applicants for the VanVleet had perfect 800 scores on the GRE although only two Van Vleet Fellowships can be awarded. Fortunately, departments were able to locate additional funds to support these students. 349.2.1 Graduate Student Information Fair, 23 September, 11:00 a.m.-2:00 p.m. in the UC Ballroom: Flyers were distributed and Cou ncil members were urged to encourage their junior, senior, and master™s students to attend. One Council member suggested that advertising, such as a sandwich board or mime, might increase attendance. Another suggested advertising it at the Adult and Commuter Student Center. 349.3 Discussion Items: 349.3.1. A proposal for a new MS and PhD with majors in Computer Science was distributed. Council members were asked to look it over carefully and vote on it at the October meeting. If there are quest ions, they should be addressed both to Linda Bennett and to Sajjan Shiva, Dir ector of the Computer Science Division of the Math Sciences department. 349.3.2. Fair Labor Standards Act, new federal regulations: Research and teaching assistants and assistants to instructors are exempt from the new federal overtime guidelines. Service GAs, however, are non-exempt and will now have to keep timesheets that must be kept in the office for 3 years. If service GAs work more than 33.5 hours a week, they must be paid overtime. If service GAs work 40 hours or more, they must be paid at the premium rate of time and a half. However, there is no extra money in the pool, so departments must ta ke care that service GAs do not work more than 33 hours a week. GA contracts stipulate that full-time GAs should work 20 hours a week, and everyone is encouraged to adhere to the contract. This led to discussion about what constituted overtime for half-time GAs and the possibility of abuses. K. Weddle-West explained the Provost™s restructuring of assistantships two years ago and emphasized that the goal is to enhance assistantships by increasing stipends and improving the climate. For example, the Provost introduced the goal of health care for graduate assistants at the general faculty meeting. 349.3.3. M Logan introduced the need to set up a graduate grade appeals committee. Although there are not very many appeals (and those few are either very simple or very complex), a committee should be in place. Four members (two regular and two alternates) need to be elected by the Council. K. Kreitner and R. Koch volunteered to be regular members. Both were elected by voice vote. C. Danehower and D. Larsen volunteered to be alternates. Both were elected by voice vote. K. Weddle-West noted that Shirl ey Key (ICL faculty) had expressed interest in being appointed to this committee. She will be contacted about it. 349.3.4. M. Butler reported on the Graduate Student Association. 349.3.4.1. The graduate student orientation was very successful. Many more attended than were expected. Bill Akey, Assistant Vice Provost for Enrollment Services, was impressed with the turn-out and indicated that his office will coordinate the Graduate Student Orientation next year! 349.3.4.1. Members of the Graduate Student Leadership Council need to be elected for next year. S. Slack had two engineering students to suggest. 349.3.5 K. Weddle-West stressed the need to enroll more graduate students to meet the Provost™s goal of 1500 increase by 2008. Application deadlines were earlier this year with no student being allowed to apply for admission after the first day of class. Students who had not been enrolled for a semester were invited to return, which yielded a significant increase in the number of readmissions. The Graduate School is also embarking on new enrollment strategies. 349.3.6. A draft of Graduate Students™ Rights and Responsibilities was distributed with the request that colleges and departments fine tune it. M. Butler explained that the GSA had looked at peer institutions and asked for feedback so that it can be ratified by the December meeting. Much discussion ensued about a student™s right to request changes to a committee. L. Weiss suggested that specific procedures be added. L. Bennett felt that university procedures re student committees in general are too vague; instances of prejudice, discrimination, arbitrary, or capricious action on the part of committee members ought to result in the right to change (rather than merely requesting change) committee members. She also felt that a process or protocol for dealing with such action should be developed. It was also suggested that a reminder to students to leave plenty of time for getting signatures be added to candidacy forms on the web. 349.3.7. N. Hurley reminded Council member s of the October 23 deadline for getting curricular revisions to the Graduate School. She will be setting up a Quick Place on which Council members will be able to view syllabi and program changes. An email will be sent out with the URL in the near future. T. Sayger said he had had trouble with Quick Place and suggested using UMDrive. 349.3.8. Retention of Graduate Faculty Status for Faculty in the Post-Retirement Program: K. Weddle-West asked if the Council felt th at retention of current graduate faculty state should be a perk of those in the post-retirement program. Currently, some faculty in the post-retirement program have requested to continue their service as chair of student committees, particularly when the students are very near completion. Karen Weddle-West has approved such reque sts. Several questions were raised: Should the current status continue throug hout the post-retirement term (four years)? Should it be limited to one or two years? It was noted that 12-year doctoral terms could lead to committee turn-over two or three times. The discussion was tabled for the October meeting. There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 3:30pm. Minutes respectfully submitted by Nancy Hurley