#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2004-2005/0205min.pdf
No. 353, 02/04/05 UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES AND RESEARCH MINUTES 4 February 2005 Meeting Number 353 Present: D. Arant (UColl), L. Bennett (CAS), S. Blanton (POLS, proxy L. Bennett), L. Brooks (MIS), M. Butler (GSA), Linda Clemens (HSS), C. Danehower (FCBE), R. Koch (NURS), K. Kreitner (Music, M. Logan, proxy), D. Larsen (ESCI), M. Logan (CCFA), T. McInish (FIR), C. Purtle (ART), E. Rakow (COE), B. Weltman-Aron (FLL) Ex Officio: K. Weddle-West (Assistant VPGS), Absent: J. Marchetta (MECH), S. Pezeshk (CIVL) , S. Slack (ENGR), D. Wark (AUSP), J. Brownlee (GS), A Meyers (VPR) Guests: L. Corcoran (AMUM), Anissa Dalle (IEI), C. Ethington (CEPR, chair of IRB), Max Garzon (COMP), Lisa Goins (IEI), Susie Hayes (RSS), Patricia Podzorsky (AMUM), C. Schiro-Geist (VP Academic Affairs) The meeting was called to order at 2:05 pm. 353.1 L. Bennett moved (2/K. Kreitner) that the minutes of Meeting No.352, 3 December 2004, be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. 353.2 Announcements 353.2.1 IT strategic planning for graduate students: Please email the department™s top three needs to Tom Crafton: tcrafton@memphis.edu . 353.2.2 TBR and THEC have approved the University™s request to develop a proposal for establishing an MS in Computer Engineering. 353.3 Old Business 353.3.1 A revised draft of the statement of Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities was distributed. K. Weddle-West asked that the new prologue by the GSA be reviewed at College Council meetings in February and that approvals be brought to the March Council meeting for UCGSR approval. 353.3.2 A draft of the protocol for retention hearings was distributed, with the admonition that much of it was drawn up by the University Legal Counsel. It was suggested that the time limit for the first appeal be revised and that the possibility of an appeal be included in all termination notifications. The protocol will only be distributed to students after the decision to hear an appeal has been made. M. Logan moved that the draft be approved with the 1 No. 353, 02/04/05 noted revision; the motion was seconded by L. Clemens and carried by voice vote. 353.4 New Business 353.4.1 Institutional Review Board Approval Process: Bunty Ethington and Susie Hayes went over the necessity for following the correct procedure. The University has not been in compliance; the IRB will no longer give tacit approval after the study has been conducted. Both graduate students and their advisors must be closely involved to make sure that the paperwork is done correctly before all research begins. K. Weddle-West suggested that a formal proposal defense, including IRB approval, should be done in all colleges; the protocol should be ready at the proposal defense, so that it can be submitted before the study gets under way. A. Meyers needs to reinforce this with the faculty, who are ultimately responsible and who can suffer severe penalties. All graduate students and faculty will be emailed about this problem. The information is on the Graduate School website and should be on departmental websites as well. 353.4.2 Lisa Goins went over SPEAK test procedures for GTAs whose native language is not English. She reviewed the test dates, noted that practice tests are available, and stressed that, without remediation, it is nearly impossible to raise one™s score. It is the student™s responsibility to schedule both the test and any necessary remediation, such as ENGL 6500, the AUSP program to reduce accent, or the tutors that are sometimes available through the ESL program. It is important to let students know about the availability of remediation. J. Brownlee checks for SPEAK test scores when processing GA contracts, so it is important to test early. Waivers are available; contact L. Goins. 353.4.3 M. Butler distributed flyers for the upcoming Student Research Forum, 11 April. K. Weddle-West announced that Council members will be asked to judge and noted that the first two studen ts ever to enter from business last year won first and second place in their category and the first competitor from English won first place in that category. 353.4.4 L. Corcoran, Director of the Institute for Egyptian Art and Archaeology presented the case for extending an exception to Graduate Faculty status for Dr. P. Podzorsky. Since she is a staff member, Curator of the Egyptian Collection at the Art Museum of the University of Memphis (AMUM), she is only eligible for Affiliate status. However, she has the qualifications for Associate membership and has in effect directed several master™s theses. E. Rakow moved (2/L. Bennett) that the exception be granted. The motion was carried by voice vote. 353.4.5 K. Weddle-West asked for volunteers to form a subcommittee to examine international graduate admissions in light of the new Bologna agreement. In addition to M. Logan, B. Weltman-Aron, and S. Pezeshk, who had already agreed to serve, T. Sayger, K. Kreitner, and K. Weddle-West will complete the subcommittee. 353.4.6 K. Weddle-West led discussion of need for graduate fundraising in order to raise GA stipends, increase the number of awards, and provide health insurance. C. Schiro-Geist, L. Brooks, C. Danehower, L. Clemens, S. 2 No. 353, 02/04/05 Blanton, D. Larsen, M. Butler agreed to form a subcommittee to identify possible sources. 353.4.7 Representatives to the Graduate Student Association are still needed from the Fogelman College of Business and Economics and the College of Communication and Fine Arts. L. Brooks and M. Logan are working on this. 353.4.8 With the growing number of certificate programs, the Graduate School would like to recognize recipients of the certificates. Therefore, K. Weddle- West proposed that students should submit intent and candidacy forms for certificates so that they can be listed once a year in the commencement program. B. Weltman-Aron (2/M. Loga n) moved that the proposal be accepted. The motion was carried by voice vote. 353.4.9 Program Review 353.4.9.1 College of Arts and Sciences 353.4.9.1.1 E-Commerce Program: Presented by Max Garzon. Fogelman College wants to move this previously interdisciplinary program to Computer Science, where the scope will be expanded into an applied computer science program. The core will remain the same but other areas of emphasis will be added to business. The enrollment goal set by TBR has been reached. 353.4.9.1.2 GIS Certificate: Presented by D. Larsen, who noted that there is wide demand for such a program, which will help increase enrollment; it is suited to being a cohort type of program, particularly at the Millington Center. 353.4.9.1.3 English GRE requirements: a question was raised about using a minimum score as a cutoff point. The language has been changed. 353.4.9.1.4 The teaching math concentration was withdrawn. 353.4.9.1.5 A discrepancy in hours was noted in concentration requirements for the Master™s in Public Administration, which has been corrected. 353.4.9.1.6 M. Logan (2/ B. Weltman-Aron) moved that program changes in the College of Arts and Sciences be approved with the noted corrections. The motion was carried by voice vote. 353.4.9.2 Fogelman College of Business and Economics: Changes in the core of the Management concentration were presented by L. Brooks. Following discussion, K. Kreitner (2/L. Bennett) moved that the changes be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. 353.4.9.3 College of Communication and Fine: Art: M. Logan proposed deleting the concentrations in Journalism MA, deleting the Sacred Music concentrations in the MM and DMA, and deleting the Music Theory concentration in the MM. L. Bennett (2/K. Kreitner) moved that the deletions be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. 353.4.9.4 College of Education: Changes to the MAT licensure program were presented by E. Rakow, who noted that the table of admissions requirements was being withdrawn. L. Clemens (2/K. 3 No. 353, 02/04/05 Kreitner) moved that the changes without the admission table be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. 353.4.9.5 Herff College of Engineering: In the absence of representatives from the College, the changes were proposed by L. Brooks, who moved (2/M. Logan) that they be approved, subject to editorial approval by the Department of Civil Engineering. The motion was carried by voice vote. 353.4.9.6 Loewenberg College of Nursing: R. Koch presented changes to clarify concentration requirements and bring the on-ground program in alignment with the RODP degree requirements. D. Arant moved (2/E. Rakow) that the changes be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. 353.4.9.7 University College: D. Arant presented catalog changes required by moving the Consumer Science Department to University College. K. Kreitner moved (2/R. Koch) that the changes be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. 353.4.9.8 University Admissions Regulations and Academic Requirements: N. Hurley presented changes to this section of the catalog. After discussion that resulted in several modifications, D. Arant (2/R. Koch) moved that the revisions be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 5:15 pm. Minutes respectfully submitted by Nancy Hurley 4