#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/future_students/test_score.php
Test Score Information - Graduate School - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate School Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Programs Events Resources Future Students Admissions for International Students Apply to Graduate School Degree Program Contacts Disability Resources for Students Graduate School Contact Information English Conditional Admission for International Students Federal Assistance Opportunities Financial Aid Office Graduate Admissions Office Revised GRE ETS Workshop Information GRE Fee Reduction Request Search for Off-Campus Housing Tennessee Eligibility Verification for Entitlements Act Test Score Information University Fees &amp; Tuition Home Graduate School Future Students Test Score Information Test Score Information MASTERS DEGREE PROGRAMS New admissions to The University of Memphis Graduate School (except to the MALS program in the University College) require submission of an acceptable combination of undergraduate GPA and appropriate entrance examination test score (GRE, MAT, GMAT, PRAXIS, or TOEFL) that is not more than five years old. Contact your program for information on what tests are acceptable or check the Graduate Catalog. Scores on MAT exams written in less than two-month intervals are not acceptable . Students should have official test scores sent directly to the Graduate Admissions office by the testing agency. Unofficial scores are not acceptable, but may be included with your application to start the review process. If the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is being submitted, both the verbal and quantitative sections are required. Applicants for the Scheidt School of Music may substitute the Revised Music Subject Examination for the quantitative score. All applicants for the Fogelman College of Business and Economics must submit a Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT) score. Many departments have higher requirements for admission. See departmental degree programs in the Graduate Catalog for more information on program requirements. Students who apply for admission to a master's degree program may have the entrance examination waived if (1) the applicant has an earned master's or equivalent degree from an accredited institution and (2) the program coordinator concurs. EDUCATION SPECIALIST PROGRAM The Education Specialist degree is designed for the educator practitioner who desires post-master's training but who does not wish to earn a doctoral degree. This program is administered by the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences, please contact the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences for additional details (901-678-2363). DOCTORAL DEGREE PROGRAMS New admissions to The University of Memphis Graduate School require submission of an appropriate entrance examination test score (GRE or GMAT) that is not more than five years old. Contact your program for information on what tests are acceptable. Students should have official test scores sent directly to the Graduate Admissions office by the testing agency. Some departments may require higher standards or additional items such as portfolios, proficiency examinations, auditions, etc. Refer to the appropriate departmental web sites for additional requirements. ADMISSION TESTS OFFERED ON THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS CAMPUS The Graduate Record Examination (GRE), Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT), the TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language), and the PRAXIS I (PPST) are offered on computer at The University of Memphis Computer Testing Center located in 112 Brister Hall. Contact them at (901) 678-1457 for an appointment. The Millers Analogies Test (MAT) is administered on The University of Memphis main campus. Contact the Testing Center on campus for information regarding scheduled test dates. The University of Memphis Institution Code for Admissions Test: GRE = R 1459 GMAT = R 1459 TOEFL = R 1459 PRAXIS = R 1459 MAT = 1748 Future Students Admissions for International Students Apply to Graduate School Degree Program Contacts Disability Resources for Students Graduate School Contact Information English Conditional Admission for International Students Federal Assistance Opportunities Financial Aid Office Graduate Admissions Office Revised GRE ETS Workshop Information GRE Fee Reduction Request Search for Off-Campus Housing Tennessee Eligibility Verification for Entitlements Act Test Score Information University Fees &amp; Tuition Get More Information Request information about a specific program of interest. Graduate Catalog Learn more about our programs. Apply Now Submit your application today. Support Graduate Education Your gifts make a difference! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .