#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2004-2005/0405min.pdf
No. 355, 4/1/05 UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES AND RESEARCH MINUTES 1 April 2005 Meeting Number 355 Present: D. Arant (UColl), L. Bennett (CAS), S. Blanton (POLS, L. Bennett proxy), L. Brooks (MIS), M. Butler (GSA), Linda Clemens (HSS), C. Danehower (FCBE), K. Kreitner (Music), D. Larsen (ESCI), M. Logan (CCFA), T. McInish (FIR), C. Purtle (ART), E. Rakow (COE), T.V. Sayger (CEPR), B. Weltman-Aron (FLL, L. Bennett proxy) Ex Officio: K. Weddle-West (Assistant VPGS) Absent: R. Koch (NURS), J. Marchetta (MEC H), S. Slack (BIOM), D. Wark (AUSP); J. Brownlee (GS), A Meyers (VPR) Guests: B. Beech (Psych), P. Betts (SUAP), N. Schwartz (Registrar), J. Wagner-Lawlor (ENGL, Interdisciplinary Programs) The meeting was called to order at 2:10 pm. 355.1 L. Bennett moved (2/L. Clemens) that the minutes of Meeting No. 354, 4 March 2005, be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. 355.2 Announcements 355.2.1 Reminder SACS visit 20th-22nd of April 355.2.2 Student Research Forum: 110 submissions, 70 from graduate students; Fogelman College of Business and Economics submitted the highest number (15). Judges are still being sought; lunch (with music by a CCFA student) will be served to applicants and judges. 355.2.3 L. Bennett introduced Phyllis B etts, the new social sciences member from CAS. 355.3 Old Business 355.3.1 MAT Admissions Proposal: Ta ble format adopted to clarify requirements and alternate ways of satisfying the requirements; the large number of graduate students admitted to the licensure program (1100) means that minimums must be enforced to maintain the quality of the program. Two of the three requirements must be met in one of the ways listed; exceptions are possible, but will not be advertised. It was noted that GPA is a better predictor of success than GRE in applied disciplines such as this. E. Rakow (2/M. Logan) moved that the admissions proposal be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. 1 No. 355, 4/1/05 355.4 New Business 355.4.1 Master of Public Health Proposal (MPH): B. Beech (Psych) presented the proposal for this new degree. TBR is enthusiastic about the MPH and is expecting the proposal. About 14 faculty members from across the university worked for nearly a year on this first step toward a School of Public Health, which would be a first in the state. A large contingent, not only of students but also physicians, has expressed interest; heretofore, they have had to go out of state for the degree. Five new courses and a new prefix (PUBH) will be required and have been submitted with the proposal. The budget is still in draft form and is being fine-tuned in the Provost™s office. The number of graduates will be revised to allow for more graduate growth as 2 years of up-front curriculum planning is needed. M. Logan (2/E. Rakow) that the program be approved with the suggested revisions. The proposal was carried by voice vote. 355.4.2 Master of Professional Studies (MPS): This proposal was tabled until the May meeting; nevertheless, there was a great deal of discussion. The consensus was that the colleges, particularly Business and Communication, have not been sufficiently involved in the development of the program. A number of other problems were raised: although not all universities in the TBR system have fully developed graduate programs, each is developing one course; there are no hard numbers on enrollment figures nor is a source provided for those given; new concentrations would duplicate on-ground concentrations here, so the suggestions should be removed; there are no management courses, although management topics are included in the suggested courses; this is also true of communication courses; TBR has not addressed the fact that most degrees are already a blend of on-ground and on-line courses; admission standards are lower than those at the U of M; no funding has been allocated for advising. Finally, some Council members were unenthusiastic about the idea of students taking both undergraduate and graduate degrees online; for example, teaching management leadership on-line is ironic, because the student may never have experienced face-to-face group dynamics. 355.4.3 Priority registration for degree s eeking students: N. Schwartz would like to institute priority registration for degree-seeking graduate students in order to ensure that non-degree-seeking students do not fill up required courses. This is mainly a problem for the College of Education; it would affect only about 18-20% of the total non-degree population. L. Bennett (2/C. Danehower) moved that this policy be approved to take effect in Spring 2006. The motion was carried by voice vote. 2 No. 355, 4/1/05 355.4.4 Growing Graduate Committee Report: The report was distributed to Council members, with a request for comments in May. 355.4.5 Fundraising Committee Report: The report was distributed to Council members, with a request for comments in May. 355.4.6 International Student Committee Report: The report was distributed to Council members, with a request for comments in May. 355.4.7 Graduate Student Orientation: will be held the Friday before classes start in Fall 2005 and may include a reception for graduate faculty. 355.4.8 Workshop for Theses and Dissert ation: this is being developed. 355.4.9 Reception for Graduate Faculty: See 355.4.7. The meeting was adjourned at 3:45 pm. Minutes respectfully submitted by Nancy Hurley. 3