#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/mapping-civil-rights/civil-rights-begins.php
The Civil Rights Era Begins in Memphis - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections Mapping Civil Rights Mapping Civil Rights History Early Memphis Civil War and Reconstruction Early Twentieth Century Memphis The Crump Era Memphis and World War II The Civil Rights Era Begins in Memphis Desegregation of Memphis City Schools 1968, The Sanitation Workers and Dr. King Memphis in the 1970s and 1980s Memphis Today About the Mapping Civil Rights History Project Interactive Map Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks Mapping Civil Rights The Civil Rights Era Begins in Memphis The Civil Rights Era Begins in Memphis In 1954, the national NAACP won the hard fought court battle Brown v Board of Education. This case ruled that applying the concept of "separate but equal" to public schools was not constitutional. While the ruling was supposed to end legal segregation in schools, most states and cities, including Memphis and Tennessee, developed ways to circumvent the law. Still, African Americans saw the ruling as the dawn of a new day. In addition, Memphians also found hope after the death of Boss Crump, who died only five months after this landmark Supreme Court case. Crump's death and the decline of his machine led to a new era of Black independent politics. With no one to replace Crump, Blacks seized the opportunity to gain political power. That same year, three Blacks –William C. Weathers, Benjamin Hooks, and T.L. Spencer – ran for elected positions. Although they did not win, their campaigns yielded a large increase in registered Black voters. Subsequent elections and voter registration drives led to the largest push for political power by African American leaders to that date. Black Democrats and Republicans joined together and strengthened their political power by resurrecting the defunct Shelby County Democratic Club. The club served as an independent political party, coordinating with different civic clubs in voting precincts with the goal of getting Black candidates elected. They made their most aggressive push for political representation in 1959 with what became known as the Volunteer Ticket. It was local, all-Black, and independent of the major political parties. That August, attorneys Benjamin Hooks, Russell Sugarmon and A.W. Willis, as well as Reverends Roy Love and Henry Clay Bunton ran for political office on the Volunteer Ticket. One of the ways in which "the Ticket" raised funds and garnered support was hosting a rally at Mason Temple at the end of July 1959 that featured the famous gospel singer Mahalia Jackson, backed by a 1000 member choir drawn from local churches and an uplifting speech from Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and an unidentified woman at the podium of the Freedom Rally at Mason Temple on July 31, 1959. Photographs of candidates (L to R): Russell Sugarmon, Benjamin L. Hooks, Roy Love, Henry C. Bunton. Photo courtesy of Memphis and Shelby County Room, Memphis Public Library &amp; Information Center. \King stressed the importance of supporting the Volunteer Ticket. King told the crowd that he "had never seen such enthusiasm at a meeting of Negroes." Unfortunately, the Volunteer ticket failed to get any Black candidates elected but succeeded in increasing the Black vote to 55,000 and ushering in a new era of independent Black politics. During the late 1940s and early 1950s, the local NAACP was led and controlled by pastors and churches who did not want to do anything that would anger the Crump Machine. During this time, the organization was not very active - politically or socially. Things began to change in the mid-1950s when returning veterans and recent college graduates assumed leadership. Most of the new leaders were former members of the more active youth NAACP before and during college. Attorney H.T. Lockard became the president of the NAACP at the beginning of 1955. By then, the organization was led by lawyers such as Benjamin Hooks, James F. Estes, Russell Sugarmon, A.W. Willis, and Ben F. Jones. They attracted a young accountant named Jesse Turner, who was one of ten Black Certified Public Accountants in the nation. Dentist Vasco Smith joined the branch upon his return to Memphis in 1955. This new crop of leaders came back to Memphis with the intention of making it a truly integrated society. Despite the Supreme Court's 1954 school desegregation ruling in Brown v. Board of Education, Memphis officials opened the segregated Lester High School in 1956. Source: Bond, Beverly G. and Janann Sherman. Memphis in Black and White. Arcadia Publishing, 2003. After the Brown v. BOE Supreme Court decision, most NAACP branches around the country began fighting for school desegregation at the high school level. This was dramatically played out in Little Rock, Arkansas where the violence and harassment towards students garnered national attention and resulted in President Dwight Eisenhower federalizing the National Guard and sending the 101st Airborne to the city by an Executive Order. The Memphis NAACP wanted to avoid this kind of reaction and developed a plan that would keep children out of harm. In 1957, Maxine Smith and Laurie Sugarmon, the wives of Vasco and Russell respectively, applied for graduate school at the city's all-white Memphis State University. Smith had previously received a Master's degree from the prestigious Middlebury College, while Sugarmon had graduated Phi Beta Kappa at Wellesley College. Despite their credentials, both were rejected by the University. Less than a decade later, Sugarmon became the University's first Black faculty member. Allegra Turner—a Catholic and wife of NAACP President Jesse Turner—fought to have her children admitted to private Catholic schools during segregation. Christian Brothers High School became the first desegregated high school in Memphis (public or private) when Jesse Turner Jr. enrolled as a freshman. In this era, women led the charge against the barriers of segregation. Some, like Maxine Smith, even assumed leadership roles. In 1962, Smith became the local NAACP's first Executive Secretary, a paid professional position that was rare in the South. Little Rock Nine Students. Photo courtesy of Special Collections, University of Memphis. Mapping Civil Rights Mapping Civil Rights History Early Memphis Civil War and Reconstruction Early Twentieth Century Memphis The Crump Era Memphis and World War II The Civil Rights Era Begins in Memphis Desegregation of Memphis City Schools 1968, The Sanitation Workers and Dr. King Memphis in the 1970s and 1980s Memphis Today About the Mapping Civil Rights History Project Interactive Map Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .