#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/cas/chem.php
CHEM Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning CHEM Courses CHEMISTRY (CHEM) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: CHEM 6180-99. Special Topics in Inorganic Chemistry. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in online list of classes. CHEM 6280-99. Special Topics in Analytical Chemistry. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in online course listings. CHEM 6380-99. Special Topics in Organic Chemistry. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in online course listings. CHEM 6480-99. Special Topics in Physical Chemistry. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in online course listings. CHEM 6580-99. Special Topics in Biochemistry. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in online course listings. CHEM 7100–09–8100-09. Special Topics in Inorganic Chemistry. (1-3). Lectures and conferences covering selected areas of current interest (including equilibrium, titrimetric, electroanalytical, and spectral methods, separation and radio-chemical techniques, microanalysis, statistics and data analysis, and electrode kinetics). May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CHEM 7200-09–8200-09. Special Topics in Analytical Chemistry. (1-3). Lectures and conferences covering selected areas of current interest (including equilibrium, titrimetric, electroanalytical, and spectral methods, separation and radio-chemical techniques, microanalysis, statistics and data analysis, and electrode kinetics). May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CHEM 7300-09–8300-8309. Special Topics in Organic Chemistry. (1-3). Lecture and conferences covering selected areas of current interest (including heterocyclic chemistry, organometallic compounds, organosulfur compounds, alkaloids, steroids, terpenes, photochemistry, biosynthesis, stereochemistry, carbohydrates, new synthetic methods, high polymers, and advanced physicalorganic chemistry). May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CHEM 7400-09–8400-09. Special Topics in Physical Chemistry. (1-3). Lectures and conferences covering selected areas of current interest (including non-aqueous solutions, surface chemistry, x-ray crystallography, theoretical spectroscopy, nuclear chemistry, molecular structure of macromolecules, colloid chemistry, statistical thermodynamics, esr, and nmr). May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CHEM 7500-09–8500-09. Special Topics in Biochemistry. (1-3). Lectures and conferences covering selected areas of current interest (including enzymology, protein and nucleic acid chemistry, physical chemistry of biochemical macromolecules, lipid, carbohydrate, and amino acid metabolism, biochemical energetics, and metabolic regulation). May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CHEM 8700–09. Special Topics in Computational Chemistry. (1-3). Lectures and conferences covering selected areas of current interest (including artificial intelligence methods, molecular computing, semi-empirical quantum mechanics, combinatorial chemistry, computer-aided drug design, analysis of chemical databases, correlated methods, chemometrics, and parallel computing). May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CHEM 6001 - Environmental Chemistry (3) Chemical phenomena occurring in soil, atmospheric, and aquatic environments; consideration of natural resources and environment. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3310 and CHEM 3211. CHEM 6111 - Intermediate Inorganic CHEM (3) Theoretical and applied inorganic chemistry, stressing the relationship of structure and bonding to the properties of elements and compounds; topics include introductory molecular orbital theory, coordination compounds and organometallics, ligand field theory, nonaqueous solvent systems, and reaction mechanisms. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3111 , or permission of the instructor. CHEM 6201 - Instrumental Analysis Lab (1) Application of techniques of instrumental analysis in areas of atomic and molecular spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, electroanalytical chemistry and chromatography. Three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3211 with at least C-, or COREQUISITE: CHEM 4211. CHEM 6211 - Instrumntl Analysis (3) Topics in modern analytical instrumental analysis; atomic and molecular spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, electroanalytical chemistry and chromatograhpy. Three lectures hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3211 with at least C-. CHEM 6311 - Physical Organic Chemistry (3) Theory of electronic structure organic compounds, relation between structure and reactivity of organic compounds, mechanisms of common organic reactions. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3310 and 3511 with at least a C-. Repeat no more than two times. CHEM 6315 - Organic Medicinal Chem (3) Introduction to principles of medicinal chemistry; structure, synthesis, and biochemical mechanism of action of major drug classes. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3511. CHEM 6406 - Molecular Spectroscopy Lab (1) Determination of molecular structure of compounds using nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, infrared spectroscopy, and mass spectrometry. Three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3301 with at least C-. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: CHEM 6416. CHEM 6411 - Advanced Physical Chem (3) Advanced topics in physical chemistry, including statistical mechanics and thermodynamics plus selected topics in kinetic theory of gases, condensed phases, and non-equilibrium processes. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3411 or permission of instructor. CHEM 6415 - Computational Chemistry (3) Application of computers to problems in organic and inorganic chemistry; use of quantum chemistry codes to solve problems related to electronic, molecular, and vibrational structure. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3411 or permission of instructor. CHEM 6416 - Molecular Spectroscopy (3) Theory, instrumentation and applications of NMR, FT-IR, mass spectrometry, and UV-visible spectroscopy. Application and theory of other spectroscopic methods will be discussed briefly. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3310 and 3411. CHEM 6501 - Lab Tech In Biochem (2) (Same as BIOL 6503). Biochemical techniques, analysis and design strategies; emphasis on properties of proteins/enzymes, including binding, catalysis, kinetics, electron and proton transport processes of intermediate metabolism; purification, characterization, and assay of enzymes using chromatography, spectroscopy, electrophoresis. Six laboratory hours per week; $50 material fee. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3501; PREREQUISITE OR COREQUISITE: CHEM 6511. CHEM 6511 - Biochemistry I (3) (Same as BIOL 6511). Chemistry of amino acids and proteins as related to their properties in biochemical systems; protein conformation studies; enzymology; coenzymes and their functions; importance of pH and bioenergetics in catalysis; protein and carbohydrate metabolism. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3511 with at least a C-. CHEM 6512 - Biochemistry II (3) (Same as BIOL 6512). Continuation of CHEM 6511; chemistry of lipids: metabolism, membrane formation and function in cell signaling mechanisms and sensory transduction; chemistry of nucleotides, DNA, and RNA; mechanisms of information storage and transmission; advanced treatment of enzyme kinetics. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 6511or BIOL 6511 with at least a C-. CHEM 6603 - Materials Synthesis Lab (1) Practical application of modern chemical synthesis; experimental studies in synthetic organic, organometallic, inorganic, polymer, and nanomaterial chemistry. Three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3301. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: CHEM 4613 CHEM 6604 - Instrumental Methods (3) Analytical instrumental techniques including molecular spectroscopy, chromatography, atomic spectroscopy, and electrochemical analysis. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week; $25 material fee. PREREQUISITES: Permission of instructor. CHEM 6613 - Materials Synthesis (3) Principles, methods and applications of modern chemical synthesis; organic, organometellic, inorganic, polymer, and nanomaterial synthetic reactions and techniques; multi-step and interdisciplinary synthesis. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3111 and CHEM 3310. CHEM 6614 - Polymer Chemistry (3) Fundamental concepts in polymer chemistry and polymer physics with focus on synthesis, characterization, structure and properties of polymeric materials. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3310 and CHEM 3411. CHEM 6615 - Biophysical Chemistry (3) Study of biomolecular structures and properties; emphasis on biophysical techniques applicable to study of biomolecular structures and properties. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3411 and 3510. CHEM 7001 - Directed Research (1-10) An original investigation undertaken with the supervision of a member of the graduate staff to be the basis of a contribution to the chemical literature. May be repeated for a maximum of 30 credit hours. CHEM 7111 - Systematic Inor Chem (3) Survey of inorganic chemistry, including electronic structure, bonding, stereochemistry, symmetry, and the physical and chemical properties of the elements and their compounds. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 6111 or permission of instructor. CHEM 7211 - Adv Analytical Chem I (3) Advanced treatment of topics in atomic and molecular spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, and surface analysis techniques. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 6211 or permission of instructor. CHEM 7212 - Adv Analytical Chem II (3) Advanced treatment of topics in electrochemical methods and separation techniques. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 6211 or permission of instructor. CHEM 7311 - Adv Organic Chemistry (3) Physical approach to organic reaction mechanisms; reactive intermediates, aromaticity, and pericyclic reactions; introduction to advanced spectroscopic techniques and synthetic philosophy. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 6311 or permission of instructor. CHEM 7312 - Synthetic Organic Chem (3) Principles of synthesis of complex organic molecules. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 6311 or permission of instructor. CHEM 7314 - Heterocyclic Chemistry (3) Reactions, synthesis, uses, and physical properties of heterocyclic compounds. CHEM 7411 - Elect Structure & Sym (3) Basic quantum chemistry with applications to simple systems; group theory and its applications; molecular orbital theory including Huckel, SCF-LCAO-MO, and Qualitative MO methods. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 6411 or permission of instructor. CHEM 7414 - Adv Quantum Chemistry (3) Advanced treatment of topics in quantum chemistry with emphasis on electronic structure theories. CHEM 7600 - Intro Grad Study Chem (2) Laboratory instruction emphasizing communication skills, laboratory conduct and safety, and evaluation of performance. Two laboratory hours per week. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. CHEM 7711 - Approx Chem Model Meth (3) Development of approximate classical and quantum mechanical techniques for modeling chemical systems, molecular mechanics, semiempirical quantum mechanics. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 7411 or permission of instructor. CHEM 7713 - Adv Solid St Phys/Chem (3) Quantum mechanical treatment of electronic and vibrational states of metals, semiconductors and insulators, transport phenomena, superconductivity, physics of defects in solids. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 7411 or permission of instructor. CHEM 7910 - Spec Prob In Chem (1-12) Individual investigation and report under the guidance of the student's major advisor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. CHEM 7911 - Presentation (1) Preparation and presentation of a short talk or lecture based on a laboratory or library project. Topic chosen in consultation with advisor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. CHEM 7913 - Chemistry Seminar (1) Formal meetings, presentation, and discussion of current topics of interest; students, faculty, and visiting scientists participate. Required of all regularly enrolled graduate students. A maximum of 4 credit hours from a combination of CHEM 6911, 7911, 8911, and 7-8913 may be counted toward the degree. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. CHEM 7996 - Thesis (1-6) An original investigation undertaken with the supervision of a member of the graduate staff. The investigation will be the basis of a thesis. A maximum of 6 credit hours can be counted toward the thesis Master's degree. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. CHEM 8001 - Directed Research (1-10) An original investigation undertaken with the supervision of a member of the graduate staff to be the basis of a contribution to the chemical literature. May be repeated for a maximum of 30 credit hours. CHEM 8111 - Systematic Inor Chem (3) Survey of inorganic chemistry, including electronic structure, bonding, stereochemistry, symmetry, and the physical and chemical properties of the elements and their compounds. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 6111 or permission of instructor. CHEM 8112 - Structural Inor Chem (3) Principles and applications of spectroscopic and physical methods to the solution of inorganic and organometallic problems, including electronic absorption spectra, photoelectron spectra, resonance Raman, NMR, EPR, Mossbauer Spectroscopy, EXAFS/XANES, X-ray diffraction. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 6111 or permission of instructor. CHEM 8211 - Adv Analytical Chem I (3) Advanced treatment of topics in atomic and molecular spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, and surface analysis techniques. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 6211 or permission of instructor. CHEM 8212 - Adv Analytical Chem II (3) Advanced treatment of topics in electrochemical methods and separation techniques. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 6211 or permission of instructor. CHEM 8311 - Adv Organic Chemistry (3) Physical approach to organic reaction mechanisms; reactive intermediates, aromaticity, and pericyclic reactions; introduction to advanced spectroscopic techniques and synthetic philosophy. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 6311 or permission of instructor. CHEM 8312 - Synthetic Organic Chem (3) Principles of synthesis of complex organic molecules. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 6311 or permission of instructor. CHEM 8314 - Heterocyclic Chemistry (3) Reactions, synthesis, uses, and physical properties of heterocyclic compounds. CHEM 8405 - Adv Biophysical Chemistry (3) Advanced study of biomolecular structures, properties and mechanism; Emphasis on how to utilize various techniques to study biological properties and mechanism. This course utilizes mixed-mode instruction. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 6411 or permission of instructor. CHEM 8411 - Elect Structure & Sym (3) Basic quantum chemistry with applications to simple systems; group theory and its applications; molecular orbital theory including Huckel, SCF-LCAO-MO, and Qualitative MO methods. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 6411 or permission of instructor. CHEM 8414 - Adv Quantum Chemistry (3) Advanced treatment of topics in quantum chemistry with emphasis on electronic structure theories. CHEM 8711 - Approx Chem Model Meth (3) Development of approximate classical and quantum mechanical techniques for modeling chemical systems, molecular mechanics, semiempirical quantum mechanics. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 7411 or permission of instructor. CHEM 8713 - Adv Solid St Phys/Chem (3) Quantum mechanical treatment of electronic and vibrational states of metals, semiconductors and insulators, transport phenomena, superconductivity, physics of defects in solids. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 7411 or permission of instructor. CHEM 8910 - Spec Prob In Chem (1-12) Individual investigation and report under the guidance of the student's major advisor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. CHEM 8911 - Advanced Presentation (1) Preparation and presentation of one-hour lecture as regularly scheduled department seminar. Topic chosen in consultation with advisor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. CHEM 8913 - Chemistry Seminar (1) Formal meetings, presentation, and discussion of current topics of interest; students, faculty, and visiting scientists participate. Required of all regularly enrolled graduate students. A maximum of 4 credit hours from a combination of CHEM 6911, 7911, 8911, and 7-8913 may be counted toward the degree. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. CHEM 9000 - Dissertation (1-10) A maximum of 32 dissertation hours is permitted. A minimum of 6 credit hours is required for the doctoral degree. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .