#http://www.memphis.edu/history/online/
Online Programs - Department of History - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of History Why History? Undergraduate Graduate Online Faculty HERC GAAAH Online Contact Graduate Coordinator Undergraduate Coordinator Programs Advising UofM Online Orientation UofM Online BA in History UofM Online MA in History Steps to Enroll Forms and Applications Home Department of History Online Online Degree Programs in History The Department of History in the College of Arts and Sciences at The University of Memphis offers both the Bachelor of Arts in History and the Master of Arts in History online. Students are able to complete their education at a major university with the flexibility and convenience of an online environment. More than two dozen History Department faculty teach courses that cover all major geographic areas and time periods. The online programs particular strengths include U.S. History; Women, Gender, and Family; Asia; and Medieval Europe. Please use the links below for a complete listing of the online course catalog. Online B.A. in History course catalog (pdf) Online M.A. in History course catalog (pdf) Bachelor of Arts in History Online You may complete this degree entirely online by combining online courses with courses offered at the University of Memphis campus, or by combining University of Memphis courses (online and on campus) with a limited number of approved courses transferred from other institutions (see Bachelor’s Degree in History for more information). Dr Chrystal Goudsouzian , 901.678.5339, 143 Mitchell, supervises all advising of undergraduate students within the Department of History. If you are an entirely online student, or take a significant number of online courses, you should be advised by the Online Coordinator, Amanda Lee Savage , 901.678.1677, 145 Mitchell. Master of Arts in History Online Students enrolled this program must complete all of their degree requirements online. Up to 12 credit hours earned at another university may be applied to the degree. For more information about our graduate program and the online M.A. in History, see Graduate Programs . Dr Daniel Unowsky , 901.678.3385, 131 Mitchell, is the Director of Graduate Studies. See him for any matters relating to the graduate program in History. To ask about forms, deadlines, check on the status of your application, and other such questions, contact the Graduate Secretary, Karen Jackett , 901.678.1366, 219B3 Mitchell. Online Contact Graduate Coordinator Undergraduate Coordinator Programs Advising UofM Online Orientation UofM Online BA in History UofM Online MA in History Steps to Enroll Forms and Applications History Happenings The department reports, as they occur, significant happenings that involve our faculty, students, staff, and alumni. Newsletter The department newsletter is filled with interesting articles and information about our award-winning faculty and students. Event Calendar Plan to attend events of historical interest. Contact Us Contact the Department of History at The University of Memphis. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .