#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/news/memphismattersmay2015.php
Memphis Matters - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About News E-News Magazine Update Info Class Notes University News Home UMAA News Memphis Matters New UofM Website Design The UofM website has a bold new look! FCBE Alumni Golf Tournament Updated Date: Monday, June 29 Join the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics Alumni Chapter for its 7th Annual Golf Tournament at Germantown Country Club. Faculty &amp; Staff Awards The Alumni Association honored faculty and staff with the 2015 Distinguished Teaching and Research Awards. University News Stay up-to-date on student and faculty accomplishments, college updates and upcoming events. Lambuth Campus Updates The spirit of Lambuth lives on! Learn more about initiatives and changes on the campus. Club and Chapter News Mark your calendar for these upcoming Alumni Association events including: UMAR monthly events, Law School Reunion and more! Benefit Spotlight Alumni Association members: Display your achievement with pride with a custom diploma frame from University Frames, Inc. superhero 5k UMAA Superhero 5K &amp; Kids 400 Meter Dash presented by Liberty Mutual Friday, June 19, 7:00 pm UofM Campus Featuring: Special "Super" Guests - Costume Contest - Superhero Games - Refreshments Register online at umaasuperhero5k.racesonline.com/ Pricing Information: Registration Category Through 6/13/2015 6/14/2015 - Race Day Superhero 5K Run/Walk $25 $30 University of Memphis Alumni Association Member Discount (must have code)* $20 $25 Kids Superhero 400 meter dash (12 years and younger) $10 $10 Pouncer's Pals Member Discount (must have code)* $8 $8 Spirit Runner (non-runner, shirt only) $10 $10 *Alumni Association, Blue Crew, FAM and Pouncer's Pals members: Login to my.memphis.edu and select the "Association Members" tab for the special offer code. 5K participants will receive a t-shirt** Kids Dash participants will receive a t-shirt** and a medal ** All pre-registered participants registered 1 WEEK PRIOR to race day are guaranteed the race shirt size they requested during the registration process. Race Day and Packet Pick up sign ups are not guaranteed the shirt size of their choice, shirts will be given on a first come first serve basis. We will do our best to get everyone the shirt size they want. Dress as your favorite superhero to compete in the costume contest! (Categories: Adult, Kid, Group) Following the 5K and Kids 400 Meter Dash, you're invited to an after party and awards presentation. Refreshments and superhero games will be provided along with specials guest appearances by a few of our favorite heroes. Race Day Registration and packet pick up will be held from 5:00-6:30 pm on Friday, June 19 th on the UofM Campus. Be a True Blue Superhero and register as a sponsor! Learn more here . For more information and sponsorship info, contact alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.2586. New uofm website design The University of Memphis website has a bold new look. S2N Design used the University's current rebranding campaign to start fresh and create a platform for the new tagline "Driven by Doing." From the rotating profiles on the homepage to the quotes sprinkled throughout, the personal stories how UofM students, faculty and staff are making a difference is emphasized across the new site. "The faculty and staff at the UofM have worked closely with S2N to provide a website aligned with student needs and designed for site responsiveness and accessibility," said Tammy Hedges, interim vice president for External Relations. "The site highlights student engagement on the Memphis campus and within the community, while also showcasing faculty projects and achievements." The UofM website is an extensive network used by more than 21,000 students as well as prospective students, parents, faculty, staff and alumni. The existing site had more than 18,000 pages and 250 microsites. S2N's mission was to unite the microsites and audiences under one simplified, consistent brand while following accessibility guidelines and implementing the evolving brand. A robust and collapsible menu enables users to access resources tailored specifically for them from anywhere on the main site. "One of the biggest challenges with any higher education website is the sheer amount of information involved and the range of audiences attempting to access that information," said Audrey Wrenn, account executive at S2N. "To make relevant information easier to access for anyone visiting the site, the homepage is designed as a portal for the largest audiences: Prospective Students, Current Students, Alumni, and Parents and Family. Each section links to pages designated as high traffic destinations instead of burying those pages further within the interior pages of the site." Designers strived to maintain consistency across the microsites while maintaining individuality at the same time. Each microsite can utilize the toolbox of callouts, buttons and image sliders to achieve its specific goals, but they now do that within the larger framework of the University's messaging. While only the main section of the previous site was responsive, now all parts of are easily accessed and explored on a desktop, tablet or smartphone. "Each template is designed to ensure a positive user experience on all screens," said Wrenn. "The UofM website is our single most important conduit for communication with students, parents and community partners," said President M. David Rudd. "Redesign efforts have been underway for a number of years, and I'm thrilled with the progress our team has made the last several months. I think you'll find the website vastly improved in functionality, visually appealing, and far more effective as the entry point to the University of Memphis." FCBE Alumni Golf Tournament The FCBE Alumni Chapter invites you to its Annual Golf Tournament on an updated date of Monday, June 29 , at the Germantown Country Club. Registration begins at 12:00 noon followed by a shotgun start at 1:00 pm. All proceeds will benefit the FCBE Alumni Chapter's Building Renovation Fund. Lunch and drinks will be provided. For more information or to RSVP, please contact semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043. (The original date of May 18 was rescheduled due to rain.) Faculty and staff awards The University of Memphis Alumni Association awards $22,000 annually to outstanding University of Memphis teachers and researchers. The awards and stipends were presented at a luncheon in April. The Distinguished Research Award winners include: Dr. Thomas R. Sutter , Distinguished Research in Science, Engineering, and Mathematics Award, Professor, College of Arts &amp; Sciences Dr. Roger J. Kreuz , Distinguished Research in Social Sciences, Business, and Law, Associate Dean and Professor, College of Arts &amp; Sciences Dr. Eric Carl Link , Distinguished Research in Humanities, Associate Dean, Department of History Dr. John P. Bensko , Distinguished Achievement in Creative Arts , Professor, College of Arts &amp; Sciences Dr. David N. Cox , Excellence in Engaged Scholarship, Professor, College of Arts &amp; Sciences The recipients of the 2015 Distinguished Teaching Awards are: Tom Banning , Associate Professor, Department of Engineering Technology Jennifer Johnston , Instructor of Spanish Dr. Robert Kelz , Assistant Professor of German, Associate Director of International Studies Dr. Sarah Potter , Associate Professor, Department of History In addition, the University recognizes additional exceptional faculty. The recipients of the Thomas W. Briggs Foundation Excellence in Teaching Awards are: Dr. Shirleatha Lee , Associate Professor and Director of BSN , Loewenberg School of Nursing Dr. Douglass Campbell , Instructor, Department of Economics and Director of the Center for Economic Education, Fogelman College of Business and Economics Congratulations to each of the recipients, as well as to the other nominees for these awards. For more information, contact alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.2685. University News Princeton Review Ranks UofM's Online MBA Program Among Nation's Top 25 The Princeton Review has ranked the University of Memphis' Online MBA program among the top 25 in the nation. The Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics program was ranked No. 23 based on the first comprehensive survey of business school administrators and students taking online MBA courses. The company chose the schools based on its surveys in 2014 of 80 business schools offering online MBAs (at which 75 percent or more of their program was online), plus surveys of nearly 2,000 students enrolled in the programs. Data from surveys of graduates of online MBA programs was also used. Learn more here . University of Memphis Creates JD/MPH Degree Program Public health, public policy and issues of health disparities are at the forefront of many of America's unresolved social problems. Rising health care costs pose a growing threat to the economy, while for some access to even the most basic health care is tenuous. Lawyers play a central role in society's approach to these public health issues. However, their effectiveness is frequently limited by an inadequate knowledge of public health matters. To close that educational gap, the University of Memphis has created the JD/MPH program. The program offers students the opportunity to pursue JD (juris doctor) and MPH (master of public health) degrees simultaneously. Students will have the ability to complete both degrees in four years of full-time study, a year less than it would take to complete each degree separately. Learn more here . UofM Establishes D. Mike Pennington Award for Mentoring The University of Memphis has established the D. Mike Pennington Award for Outstanding Mentoring in the Department of Journalism. The award honors distinguished alumnus D. Mike Pennington, Class of 1972, and is the first mentoring award in the College of Communication and Fine Arts and the first faculty award in Journalism. The Pennington family and friends created the unique tribute to Pennington to honor his dedication to helping others and his loyalty to his alma mater. Learn more here . Lambuth campus updates The UofM Lambuth Alumni have participated in a number of events this spring including the Investiture of President Rudd on April 17, "Educators Night" at the Jackson Generals Ballpark on April 18, attending the First Ladies Tea with Dr. Loretta Rudd on April 30 and recently celebrated baccalaureate with the UofM Lambuth graduates on May 3. The event showcased the talents of Dr. Jeremy Tubbs who played classical guitar during the Investiture ceremony, followed by Allison Tubbs who sang the National Anthem. U of M Lambuth Alumni, Jackson Board President John Yarbrough welcomed the new graduates to the Alumni Association. Several new events are planned for the coming months that include the Jackson Chamber's Business After Hours . Business After Hours is one of the largest networking programs associated with the Jackson Chamber, attended by approximately 200 attendees each month. The University of Memphis Lambuth will host the event on Thursday, May 28 from 5:00 – 7:00 pm in the lobby area of Varnell-Jones Hall. For more information about the event, contact Alexis Long at along@jacksontn.com or 731.423.2200. The event is open to the public. Save the date for Lambuth True Blue Day on October 24 from 10:00 am - 5:00 pm. The day will begin with coffee &amp; donuts with former and current faculty. Activities to follow include: lunch on the lawn, Distinguished Alumni Awards, tours of campus and competitive games. Children are welcome. For more information or to RSVP, please contact rsvp@memphis.edu . Learn more about Lambuth today: •20 bachelor degrees, 5 master's degrees, and 2 doctoral degrees in a variety of areas •Nationally ranked by U.S. News and World Report on the Honor Roll for Teacher Quality in the teacher preparation area •Military Friendly Schools list for 2015 •Nationally ranked by U.S. News and World Report for top 10 best internship programs in the United States •Ranked 14th best online RN to BSN program nationally •Ranked in the top 25 online MBA programs across the US by The Princeton Review •MSN online program ranked in the top 100 by U.S. News &amp; World Report •Over 50 study abroad programs available •National collegiate honors program available •Enrollment of 850 students •Average ACT score for entering students is 22 •UofM Lambuth is a designated Arboretum •Home of the M.D. Anderson Planetarium •Jackson, Tennessee designated "most livable" small city in the U.S. by the U.S. Conference of Mayors •Scholarships are available - Contact us for more information! Club &amp; Chapter News UMAR Enjoy lunch with the UMAR Book Club on Tuesday, May 26 , at 11:30 am at The Grove Grill before discussing this month's literary work, The Battle for God by Karen Armstrong. The book club meets the fourth Tuesday of every other month. Join UMAR for Bridge Club on Thursday, May 28 , at 1:00 pm as fellow retiree, Linda Sherrell, presents a brief introduction to duplicate bridge at the White Station Library (5094 Poplar Avenue). Whether you have never played bridge or you play party bridge on a regular basis, this event promises something for you. Newcomers will play mini-bridge, a simpler game than bridge, to gain understanding of the game. Those familiar with the game will have the opportunity to play a regular game. Cake will be provided and refreshments are requested. For more information or to RSVP by May 25, please contact bhoyer@memphis.edu or 901-678-1333. Please join UMAR for an "Early Bird" Dinner on Monday, June 1 , at 5:00 pm. Location TBA. There will be a mix and mingle from 5:00-5:30 pm followed by dinner seating. Contact aharbor@memphis.edu or 901.756.6343 to RSVP. The dinner event is held the first Monday of each month. The cost is on your own. On Tuesday, June 2 , UMAR’s Breakfast Bunch will meet at Perkins Restaurant at the corner of Park Ave. and S. White Station Rd at 9:00 am. If you’re looking for casual conversation over good food, please join us at this monthly affair! Join UMAR for Thursday's Lunch Bunch on Thursday, June 11 , at 11:30 am. The location will be announced closer to time. The group meets the second Thursday of each month. The cost of lunch is on your own. For more information to to RSVP, contact Kathy Cook at 901.385.0628. SAVE THE DATE! Farm to Table: Cooking for Seniors . Join UMAR in listening to Caroline Nichols, Nutrition Education Coordinator, talk about how to cook for one to two people with diabetic friendly and blood pressure minded culinary practices, for example replacing salt with herbs. Samples and a recipe will be provided for $6/person. The event will be on Tuesday, June 30, at the Church Health Center (1196 Peabody Ave) starting at 10:00 am with a tour and then the class from 10:30 – 11:30 am. Lunch will follow on your own at Cupboard Restaurant (1400 Union Ave) at 12:00 pm. Please RSVP by June 26. For more information about these events or to RSVP, contact bhoyer@memphis.edu or 901.678.1333. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law Alumni Chapter Please join the Class of 2005 in celebrating ten years! The Ten Year Reunion will be held on Saturday, June 20 at 5:30 pm at the Law School (1 N. Front Street). Tickets are $50 per person, which includes a cocktail reception and hors d'oeuvres. For more information, please contact m.carrier@memphis.edu . Save the date for the Law School Alumni Board Pillars of Excellence on August 22, 2015 . The 2015 honorees include The Hon. George H. Brown, Joe M. Duncan, The Hon. David S. Kennedy, Mr. Arnold E. Perl, Ms. Julia S. Sayle, The Hon. Donn A. Southern and Mr. Blanchard E. Tual. Kathy and J.W. Gibson will be recognized as the Friends of the Law School. Additional pricing information to follow. For more information contact m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461. Fogelman College of Business and Economics UPDATED DATE: Join fellow alumni for the FCBE Alumni Golf Tournament on Monday, June 29 . Registration begins at 12:00 noon, followed by a 1:00 pm start to the tournament at Germantown Country Club (1780 Kimbrough Road). All proceeds benefit the FCBE Alumni Chapter's Building Renovation Fund. RSVP to semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043. Pouncer's Pals Pouncer Pal's celebrated Pouncer's birthday at his Incredible Pizza Birthday Bash on Saturday, May 2! View Photos Pouncer's Pals are invited to join the UMAA for the Superhero 5K and Kids 400 Meter Dash on Friday, June 19 , at 7:00 pm on the UofM Campus. More information can be found here . Pouncer's Pals members receive a discounted entry fee of $8, which includes race entry, a t-shirt and a medal. You won't want to miss special guest appearances by some of our favorite heroes, fun games and more! For more information contact alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.2586. Master of Public Administration Alumni Club The MPA Alumni Club held the annual Pi Alpha Alpha Awards Luncheon on April 21 in honor of the 2014 MPA graduates and Pi Alpha Alpha honorees. View Photos Journalism Alumni Club The Journalism Alumni Club is seeking nominations for its 2016 Outstanding Alumni Awards. Nominations will be accepted for the following categories: Charles E. Thornton Award for Outstanding Alumni Herbert Lee Williams Award for former or current faculty members Young Alumni Award for alumni under the age of 40 The deadline for submission of nominations is June 15 . Click here to download a nomination form. The awards will be presented at the Outstanding Alumni Awards Luncheon this fall. For more information contact semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043. Communication Sciences and Disorders Alumni Chapter The CSD Alumni Chapter is seeking nominations for its 2016 Outstanding Alumni Awards . Nominees should be graduates who have made exceptional contributions to recipients of speech-language-hearing services, their profession, the community or the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders. The award will be presented at an Alumni Reception during the 2016 Mid-South Conference on Communicative Disorders. Members of the CSD Alumni Chapter Board of Directors and CSD teaching and clinical faculty are not eligible. For more information contact semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043. The deadline for submission of nominations is July 1 . Download a nomination form Hispanic Alumni Council The Hispanic Alumni Council (HAC) recently chose three students to receive the first HAC scholarships. These scholarships will be awarded during the Fall semester and include a $500 book scholarship. The winners will be announced soon. To stay up to date on all HAC news, "like" the HAC Facebook page . For more information about HAC, contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Emerging Leaders Alumni All Emerging Leaders alumni are invited to join our newest group in the Alumni Association, the Emerging Leaders Alumni group. For more information about how you can get involved with this group, contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Auto and Home Insurance Benefit Available from Liberty Mutual A Message from Liberty Mutual Insurance - Liberty Mutual has partnered with the UofM Alumni Association to offer alumni exclusive savings on auto and home insurance. That means you get quality coverage, expert advice, and personalized service at a special discounted rate. Call 888.620.2146 or visit Liberty Mutual to learn more or get a free quote. *Discounts and savings are available where state laws and regulations allow, and may vary by state. To the extent permitted by law, applicants are individually underwritten; not all applicants may qualify. Learn about additional Alumni Association membership benefits here! Benefit Spotlight Display your achievement with pride, preserve it for a lifetime, and support the University of Memphis Alumni Association! These beautiful diploma frames are hand crafted in the USA using eco-friendly methods, and presented to you at the most competitive prices. Congratulations to all University of Memphis graduates! Click here to design your frame today! UofM Alumni Association members receive great discounts and benefits year round. Learn about the over 300 other membership benefits here . For more information contact the Alumni Association at alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.ALUM. Join Now Interested in joining the Alumni Association? Click here to learn more and join now! News E-News Magazine Update Info Class Notes University News Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .