#http://www.memphis.edu/law/about/sports.php
Sports - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library About Administration &amp; Staff History Virtual Tour ABA Disclosures Diversity Diversity Home TIP Student Diversity Committee Scholarships Facilities Facilities Overview Virtual Tour Floor Plans Photo Gallery News &amp; Events Law School News Faculty News On Legal Grounds Blog ML-Memphis Law Magazine Events Calendar Communications Office Directions Contact Media Resource General Contact Info Faculty &amp; Staff Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Home School of Law About Sports SPORTS Quick Links Basketball Football Golf Baseball Tennis Basketball Memphis has long been a basketball town. Many say the city's love affair with roundball began with the Memphis State Tigers' 1957 run to the National Invitation Tournament finals (a time when the NIT was the equal of the NCAA tournament on a national scale). A half-century later, the Bluff City finds itself with two prominent teams to fill their winter evenings, the NBA's Memphis Grizzlies and the University of Memphis Tigers Men's Basketball team under the same arena roof at the FedExForum . The Memphis Grizzlies finished the 2013-2014 regular season with an overall record of 50 wins and 32 losses under coach David Joerger. Two-time NBA All-star Zach Randolph (Z-bo, as Memphians call him) finished the season averaging 17.9 points per game along with Mike Conley's 17.2 points per game and Marc Gasol's (aka, Big Spain) 14.6 points per game. The Grizzlies made it to the NBA playoffs for the 4th-consecutive season and took the Oklahoma City Thunder to seven games during the first-round of the western conference semifinals that saw overtime in four games. While undergoing something of a rebuilding year, the Memphis Tiger's basketball program has a long and storied history of success in the Bluff City. Under head coach Josh Pastner, the Memphis Tiger's Men's Basketball team finished the 2013-2014 season with 24 wins and 10 loses and made it to the NCAA Tournament for the 4th-consectuvie year. Overall, 50 former Memphis Tigers players have been selected in the NBA Draft. In 2013, the Memphis Tigers became a member of the American Athletic Conference (formerly the Big East). The Tigers were greeted with a grand welcome that was displayed with video boards in Time Square in New York City. [BACK TO TOP] Baseball When the weather gets warmer and the seasons begin to change, so do the sporting events we attend. T he Memphis Redbirds are the Triple-A affiliate and owned by the St. Louis Cardinals. The Memphis Redbirds call the nation's top minor league park (according to Baseball America), AutoZone Park their home. This world-class stadium is just a block away from Memphis Law. During both 2009 and 2010 seasons, the Redbirds played for the Pacific Coast League Championship and are ready for another winning season this year. The 2014 Redbirds season will include fireworks shows, giveaways, theme nights, and entertainment acts with a fun, affordable and family atmosphere. AutoZone Park has recently undergone a multi-million dollar renovation, bringing a number of exciting changes and in-game fun to the 2015-16 season. The $3 million renovation of FedExPark heralded the return to national prominence for the University of Memphis Tiger's basebal l program. The new stadium and clubhouse, which is located on the University's Park Avenue Campus, features new locker rooms, and indoor hitting and pitching areas, and equipment and training rooms in the clubhouse. Coach Daron Schoenrock and his Tigers college baseball 2014 opponents include nationally-ranked Mississippi State, Ole Miss, Louisville and Vanderbilt. [BACK TO TOP] Football Each fall the Memphis Tiger's football team returns to kickoff a new season in the Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium (which also hosts two major annual events, the Southern Heritage Classic in September and the AutoZone Liberty Bowl Classic around New Year's). The 2014-15 season marked the third season for head coach Justin Fuente and his staff, and was one of the most successful football seasons in UofM history. The Tigers were co-champions of the American Athletic Conference, capping off a 10-3 season with a win over BYU in the Miami Beach Bowl. Former Tigers who are playing or have played in the NFL include tailback DeAngelo Williams (Carolina Panthers), Stephen Gostkowski (New England Patriots), Kellen Heard (Indianapolis Colts), Duke Calhoun (Oakland Raiders),Clinton McDonald (Seattle Seahawks), Charlie Bryant (San Diego Chargers), Ronald Leary (Dallas Cowboys), Brandon McDonald (Tampa Bay Buccaneers), and Wade Smith (Houston Texans). In 2012, former Memphis Tiger, Nose Tackle Dontari Poe became the highest pick from Conference USA drafted in the NFL. Dontari Poe was the 11th player selected overall by the Kansas City Chiefs. [BACK TO TOP] Tennis The University of Memphis men's and women's tennis teams have recently moved to the Racquet Club of Memphis. The Club and the University have signed a contract which makes the Racquet Club the home facility for the Tiger tennis teams. New locker rooms and a player's lounge have been constructed for the teams. The Racquet Club offers the University's teams both indoor and outdoor courts for competition and practice. Aside from all the team sports that make the city buzz, there are annual events that make certain months a bit louder, from one venue to another. In February, The Racquet Club of Memphis hosts both the men's and women's professional tennis tours, the only combined Association of Tennis Professionals and Womens Tennis Professionals indoor event in the United States. In 2009, the men's event gained prestige as one of ten 500-level events in the world (a tier below only nine 1000-point tournaments). The U.S. National Indoor Championships men's event in Memphis is one of eleven cities in the world to own the prestigious 500-level men's event. The WTA International Memphis women's event hosts top players from around the world. In 2013, Japan's Kei Nishikori defeated Spain's Feliciano Lopez for the men's singles title while New Zealand's Marina Erakovic defeated Germany's Sabine Lisicki for the women's singles title. [BACK TO TOP] Golf If you prefer a view from the tee, the Memphis metro is home to more than 35 area golf courses and numerous regional courses only a short drive away, including Mirimichi , which is the first course to receive a Classic Sanctuary certification from Audubon International . Annual golfing events abound, with the Memphis Golf Association currently stages five championship tournaments and one Pro-Am. The annual FedEx St. Jude Classic is held at TPC Southwind. TPC Southwind was recently named as one of Golf World magazine's nationally ranked Exclusive PGA Tour Courses and has been hosting the FedEx St. Jude Classic since 1989. Since 1970, the event has generated over $26 million for St. Jude Children's Research Hospital . In 2013, FedEx St. Jude Classic winner Harris English won his first title on the PGA tour with a two stroke victory over Phil Mickelson and Tennessee's own Scott Stallings. [BACK TO TOP] About Administration &amp; Staff History Virtual Tour ABA Disclosures Diversity Diversity Home TIP Student Diversity Committee Scholarships Facilities Facilities Overview Virtual Tour Floor Plans Photo Gallery News &amp; Events Law School News Faculty News On Legal Grounds Blog ML-Memphis Law Magazine Events Calendar Communications Office Directions Contact Media Resource General Contact Info Faculty &amp; Staff Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .