#http://www.memphis.edu/mscm/faculty/krishnan.php
BALAJI KRISHNAN - MSCM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Marketing &amp; Supply Chain Management Welcome Programs Students Faculty PhD Students Publications FCBE Welcome Programs Students Faculty MKTG Faculty SCM Faculty PhD Students Publications Home MSCM Faculty BALAJI KRISHNAN BALAJI KRISHNAN Associate Professor, Department of Marketing &amp; Supply Chain Management Phone 901.678.2786 Email krishnan@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2685 Office BA 101/303 Office Hours By appointment Website Biography Dr. Balaji Krishnan is currently the Director, MBA Programs and Associate Professor of Marketing in the Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management in the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics at The University of Memphis. Dr. Krishnan has 15 years of experience in marketing research, consulting and marketing education. Dr. Krishnan has consulted with small businesses as well as multinationals in India and the US. He has also consulted with firms in various industries. Dr. Krishnan teaches in Executive MBA, International MBA, and M.S. in Ecommerce programs besides teaching in the Doctoral, Masters and Undergraduate programs. Dr. Krishnan received his Bachelors degree in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering and his Masters degree in Marketing from India. He received his PhD in Business Administration from Louisiana State University. Research Sarkar, Aditi, M. S. Balaji and Balaji Krishnan, “How Customers Cope with Service Failure? A Study of Brand Reputation and Customer Satisfaction.” Forthcoming, Journal of Business Research. Krishnan, Balaji C., Sujay Dutta, and Subhash Jha (2013), “Effectiveness of Exaggerated Advertised Reference Prices: The Role of Decision Time Pressure,” Journal of Retailing , 89 (1), 105 -113. Billing, Tejinder K., Rabi S. Bhagat, Emin Babakus, Balaji C. Krishnan, David L. Ford, B.N. Srivastava, Ujaval Rajadhyaksha, Mannsoo Shin, Ben Kuo, Catherine Kwantes, Bernadette Setiadi, Aizzat Mohd. Nasurdin (2012), “Work-Family Conflict, Psychological Strain and Work Outcomes: The Moderating Role of Decision Latitude in Five National Contexts,” Applied Psychology: An International Review, doi: 10.1111/j1464-0597.2012.00526.x. Bhagat, Rabi S, Balaji C. Krishnan, Terry A. Nelson, Karen M. Leonard, David L. Ford Jr., and Tejinder K. Billing (2010), “Organizational Stress, Psychological Strain and Work Outcomes in Six National Contexts: A Closer Look at the Moderating Influences of Coping Styles and Decision Latitude,” IEEE Engineering Management Review , 38 (4), 39-57. Bhagat, Rabi S, Balaji C. Krishnan, Terry A. Nelson, Karen M. Leonard, David L. Ford Jr., and Tejinder K. Billing (2010), “Organizational Stress, Psychological Strain and Work Outcomes in Six National Contexts: A Closer Look at the Moderating Influences of Coping Styles and Decision Latitude ,” Cross Cultural Management: An International Journal , 17, 1, 10-29. Licata, Jane W., Goutam Chakraborty and Balaji C. Krishnan (2008), “The Consumer’s Expectation Formation Process over Time.” Journal of Services Marketing, Vol. 22, 3, 176. Dembla, Pamila, Prashant Palvia, and Balaji C. Krishnan (2007), “Understanding the Adoption of Web-enabled Transaction Processing by Small Businesses.” Journal of Electronic Commerce Research , Vol. 8, 1, 1-17. Krishnan, Balaji C. (2006), “Intellectual Globalization: Evolutionary Perspective and Implications for Multinational Corporations” Journal of International Management, Vol. 12, 2, 197-207. Krishnan, Balaji C., Abhijit Biswas, Richard G. Netemeyer (2006), “Semantic Cues in Reference Price Advertisements: The Moderating Role of Cue Concreteness” Journal of Retailing , Vol. 82, 2, 95-104. Klein, Jill G., Richard Ettenson and Balaji C. Krishnan (2006), “Extending the Construct of Consumer Ethnocentrism: When Foreign Products are Preferred” International Marketing Review, Vol. 23, 3, 304-321. Muthitacharoen, Achita, Prashant Palvia, Balaji C. Krishnan, Lloyd Brooks and Robert Otondo (2006), “Re-Examining Technology Acceptance in Online Task Behaviors,” Electronic Markets , Vol. 16, Iss. 1, 4 – 15. Netemeyer, Richard G., Balaji C. Krishnan, Dwayne Dean, Chris Pullig, Joseph Ricks, Walter Wang, Ferdinand Wirth and Mehmet Yagci (2004), "Facets of Customer-Based Brand Equity as Predictors of Brand-Related Response Variables." Journal of Business Research , Vol. 57, 2, 209-224. Krishnan, Balaji C., Richard G. Netemeyer, and James S. Boles (2002), “Self Efficacy, Competitiveness, and Effort as Antecedents of Sales Performance.” Journal of Personal Selling and Sales Promotion , Vol. 22, No. 4, 285-295. Krishnan, Balaji C. and Michael Hartline (2001), " Brand Equity: Is It More Important In Services" Journal of Services Marketing , Vol. 15, No. 5, 328-342. Biswas, Abhijit, Chris Pullig, Balaji C. Krishnan and Scot Burton (1999), "Consumer Evaluation of Reference Price Advertisements: Effects of "Other" Brand's Prices and Semantic Cues." Journal of Public Policy and Marketing , Vol. 18, No. 1, 52-65. Licata, Jane W., Abhijit Biswas and Balaji C. Krishnan (1998), “Ambiguity and Exaggeration in Price Promotion: Perceptions of the Elder and Nonelder Consumer.” Journal of Consumer Affairs , Vol. 32, Iss. 1, 56-81. Teaching He currently teaches Global Strategic Marketing in the MBA and EMBA programs. He also teaches the Advanced Consumer Behavior Seminar in the Doctoral Program. Service He represented the department at the Faculty Senate. He has been the Director of International MBA since 2011 and Director of MBA Programs since 2012. Welcome Programs Students Faculty MKTG Faculty SCM Faculty PhD Students Publications Majors &amp; Minors See how a MSCM degree can benefit you! MSCM Internship Program Want to gain “real world” work experience related to your academic studies? Look no further! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .