#http://www.memphis.edu/procurement/tigerbuy/businfo.php
Business Information - Procurement and Contract Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Procurement and Contract Services Staff Directory Contract Services Tigerbuy and Bids Purchasing Card Travel Services Tigerbuy New Supplier/Vendor Registration Bid Calendar Current Bid Opportunities Vendor Information FAQs Tigerbuy Training Classes/Registration Tigerbuy Training Materials Home Procurement and Contract Services Tigerbuy Business Information Business Information Letter of Credit (PDF) Purchasing Policy Purchases made with University funds must comply with the following: University Purchasing Policy UM1507 University Purchasing Procedures - Guide to Procurement and Contract Services TBR Purchasing Policy 4:02:10:00 State of Tennessee laws Currently, University orders may be placed through the Tigerbuy eProcurement System with an approved University purchase order or Purchasing Card Program (less than $5,000). Both purchasing methods are administered by the University’s Procurement and Contract Services Office. Solicitation of bids/proposals is the responsibility of the University’s Procurement and Contract Services Office. To receive bid and purchase opportunities, vendors must register in the Tigerbuy system at memphis.edu/tigerbuy . Authorized Signatures No employee of the University has authority to make purchase commitments, enter into any contract for goods or services, or otherwise take action with respect to third parties which may be construed as financially binding to the University except through the authority of Procurement and Contract Services, unless specifically authorized in writing by the President of the University. Procurement and Contract Services is responsible for receiving bids and entering into negotiations with vendors. Billing Instructions Submit a two-part invoice within five (5) days after shipment of material. Invoice must include the purchase order number and applicable cash/trade discounts. Cash discounts will be computed from the date correct invoices are received. Send separate invoices for each and every shipment to: Accounting Office The University of Memphis 275 Administration Building Memphis, TN 38152-3370 Taxes The University is exempt from federal excise and State of Tennessee sales tax. Appropriate certification of exemption will be furnished upon reasonable request. Federal ID Number – furnished upon request Bank Reference First Tennessee Bank 901.523.4247 Credit Reference DUNS Number 055688857 Note: Data provided on this Web site is for general information purposes only. Nothing contained herein shall be construed or is intended to amend, modify, override, or nullify any statute, rule, policy or procedure of The University of Memphis or Tennessee Board of Regents. Tigerbuy New Supplier/Vendor Registration Bid Calendar Current Bid Opportunities Vendor Information FAQs Tigerbuy Training Classes/Registration Tigerbuy Training Materials Doing Business with the University of Memphis Information on how to do business with the U of M and our e-procurement and bidding system, Tigerbuy THEPI Tennessee Higher Education Purchasing Initiative Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/28/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .