#http://www.memphis.edu/univcoll/graduate/mps.php
Master of Professional Studies - University College - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University College About Undergraduate Graduate Resources Online Graduate Master of Arts in Liberal Studies Master of Professional Studies Certificate in Liberal Studies Home University College Graduate Master of Professional Studies Master of Professional Studies The Master of Professional Studies (MPS) was created to assist working professionals in advancing their careers through coursework aligned with applicable skills in key workplace focus areas. The MPS is a 33 hour program and is available in three concentrations: Strategic Leadership Human Resources Leadership Training and Development Applying for Admission to the program Students interested in pursuing this degree must first apply to The Graduate School at the University of Memphis. They accept applications via electronic submission. Review their site for specific deadlines . All applicants must have completed an undergraduate degree with a cumulative grade point average of 2.75 on a 4.0 scale from an accredited college or university, and provide an acceptable score on the GRE General Test. Applicants to the program are evaluated as they apply and may be admitted for the fall, spring, or summer semester. Applicants with five or more years of professional work experience may submit a portfolio in lieu of the GRE. The portfolio is to include: a resume; a 500 to 600 word essay detailing the reasons for wanting to enter the MPS program and discussing how the program will help the applicant achieve personal and professional goals; and two, official letters of professional reference. Other items that an applicant may submit in the portfolio include a description of professional responsibilities, professional achievements, and professional awards and/or recognitions. Completed portfolios can be submitted by email to mpsuniv@memphis.edu or mailed to: University of Memphis University College Graduate Programs Keith Sisson, Graduate Studies Coordinator 201 Brister Hall Memphis, TN 38152-3440 Note: Both previous or current instructors and employers who attest to the student's capacity for graduate work can send recommendation letters by mail to the address above or email to mpsuniv@memphis.edu . No letters can be submitted to the office by the applicant without proof that the letter was sent through the USPS and has not been opened. University College only has the authority to recommend or deny admission to the MPS program. The Graduate School makes all final admission decisions, and will notify students once a decision has been reached. Additional Information Advising Appointment Request Permit Financial Aid Graduate Assistantship Contact Us Graduate Master of Arts in Liberal Studies Master of Professional Studies Certificate in Liberal Studies Request More Information Complete our online form for additional degree information. Online Appointments Academic Advising is available in-person, by phone and web conference. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .