#http://www.memphis.edu/rsp/vice_president/faculty_incentive_pay_plan.php
Faculty Incentive Pay Plan - RSP - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Division of Research and Sponsored Programs Vice President Compliance Sponsored Programs Research Development Vice President for Research Research Development Research Foundation Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Integrated Microscopy Center High Performance Computing Internal Programs Home RSP Vice President for Research Faculty Incentive Pay Plan Faculty Incentive Plan Purpose The incentive pay plan seeks to reward faculty members with incentive pay equal to 50% of the amount of salary 'recovered' from external funding source. Background In order to comply with federal cost principles in OMB Circular A-21, it is important that the cost to the external sponsor remain unchanged as a result of the incentive pay plan. In general, federal grants do not allow extra compensation to be direct charged. Thus, it is unallowable to direct charge Incentive pay to a federal grant. Federal cost principles permit direct charging a percentage of base salary commensurate with the faculty's level of effort on the federal grant. University funds 'recovered' by direct charging base salary to external funding sources can then be used for incentive pay provided that no TBR policy or Tennessee law is violated. For many years, TBR limited extra compensation to 20% of annualized salary. The 20% limit was liberalized with the approval of TBR policy 5:01:05:00 "Outside Employment and Extra Compensation." However, Tennessee law still limits the number of extra hours faculty are allowed to work and so extra compensation is limited by Tennessee law. In contrast, Tennessee law does not limit incentive pay because incentive pay requires no additional hours of work. The U of M received TBR approval in November 2001 to implement the research incentive program on a trial basis for select faculty. TBR's approval was based on the understanding and limitation that compensation exceeding the base salary would be derived from external funding sources. In June 2002, the Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs approved extending the research incentive program to all faculty. Incentive compensation is more money for the same work; extra compensation is more money for more work. Faculty may receive both incentive compensation and extra compensation if the situation warrants. Put another way, payment of extra compensation does not preclude the payment of incentive compensation. Situations will arise in which the external funding source can pay extra compensation or incentive compensation. Since incentive compensation is limited to 50% of the amount recovered, faculty may be able to receive more money by choosing extra compensation. However, this is appropriate only if more work is performed. Faculty receiving release time to work on the externally funded project should not receive extra compensation. Forms Faculty Incentive Pay Plan Agreement Form - PDF Research Incentive Payment Request Form - Word Vice President for Research Research Development Research Foundation Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Integrated Microscopy Center High Performance Computing Internal Programs Forms Forms and other useful information Staff Staff of Research and Sponsored Programs and Grants Accounting Resources Institutional information and resources for the researcher Research Portal Research Portal Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .