#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT7135001.pdf
- 1 - MANAGEMENT 713 5 SEMINAR IN LEADERSHIP AND TEAM BUILDING. 2 Credit Hours Syllabus Fall 201 5 Full Time MBA Class INSTRUCTORS: Dr. Robert Taylor OFFICE: Business Building #220 OFFICE HOURS: T 1 - 3 pm; MR 2 - 4 PM - and by appointment PHONE: M y d irect line 901 - 678 - 5311 ; cell 901 - 849 - 8613 READINGS: Required Northouse, Leadership 5th or 6 th Edition * Robbins, Essentials of Organization Behavior any edition 8 th through 1 1 th * Assorted articles and handouts made available to the students - about 20 of these have been designated as required (those bolded on the syllabus) while others are optional reading COURSE OBJECTIVE: To enhance your leadership ability in order to better understand, predict, and control behavior of individuals and teams in organizations, primarily business organizations, by BY providing an overview of key leadership, motivation, and team concepts providing both the theory and practical application of these behavioral concepts integrating classroom discussion of theoret ical concepts with experiential learning techniques to enhance learning and interest providing opportunities for you to utilize and apply the course concepts to better enhance your leadership effectiveness having fun while learning how to improve your lead ership effectiveness IMPORTANT: All reading assignments indicated on your syllabus are intended to be completed "prior to" coming to class on the day indicated for the assignment. The syllabus is subject to change and you are responsible for all changes announced in class. Therefore, it is imperative that you be in attendance for all classes or check with a classmate for assignment changes. STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES: Any student who anticipates physical or academic barriers based on the impact of a disability is encouraged to speak with me privately. Students with disabilities should also contact Disability Resources for Students (DRS) at 110 Wilder Tower, 901 - 678 - 2880. DRS coordinates access and accommodations for students with disabilities. - 2 - R easo nable and appropriate accommodations will be provided to students with disabilities who present a memo from Student Disability Services (SDS). Students who request disability accommodations without a memo will be referred to SDS. ATTENDANCE POLICY: Altho ugh no formal class roll will be taken, you are expected to be here for each class. Poor attendance will result in a low grade on the "PARTICIPATION" component of your grade. You obviously can't participate when called on in class if you are not t here. Attendance is particularly important because of the "experiential learning" aspect of this course, where you learn by analyzing classroom, as well as other, experiences. If you aren't here to experience a behavior and participate in exercise debriefings, you obviously can't learn from that experience. ASSIGNMENT POLICY: Major a ssignments are due through the eCourseware drop box to the instructor on the dates indicated in the syllabus and on the schedule. You may also be asked to turn in a hard copy. The re will be an automatic 10 % grade reduction for each day the assignment is late. For grading purposes, the next day begins at 8 am the morning following the due date. Always keep a copy of anything given to me in case a n email or paper is lost. IT IS Y OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO HAVE A BACKUP COPY. ASSIGNMENTS AND GRADING: The Seminar in Leadership and Team Building is intended to be a very practical, applied OB cou rse. The assignments and exam emphasize this applied nature. The exam is intended to ascer tain the extent to which you have absorbed, understood, and retained the concepts presented in the readings and/or discussed in class, as well as your ability to utilize the concepts in situational analysis. This is concepts, more so than the rote memory of terms, concepts and models. The written assignments are intended to give you practice in the application of concepts to the analysis of human behavior: your own and that of others, group as well as individual beh avior. GRADING COMPONENTS: The grade point computation and conversion is as follows, with no exceptions: A = 92.0 and above; B = 83.0 - 91.9; C = 72.0 - 82.9; D = 65.0 - 71.9; F = 65 or below 1. Class Participation and Assignments 2 0 points 2. Art icle Concept Experience Report I 1 0 points 3. Article Concept Experience Report II 20 points 3. Final Exam 50 points 4. Extra Credit Article summaries. up to 4 points - 3 - Assignments 1. Article Concept Experience (ACE) Repor t I (10 points) You must select four (4) articles from those provided in your article book and use one concept from each article to analyze your own and others' behaviors. Please note the following: a. There should be 4 concepts and 4 related experien ces. Less than 4 will reduce your maximum possible grade. b. Concepts should be thorough, and generally involve a relationship statement: "If A is done, then B occurs". For each concept, list the name of the article and the author. c. Do not to use t he same concept twice. d. Experiences should be thoroughly explained, include details, and show some depth of analysis. e. Emphasize your own experience: what you did right (and why) or what you did wrong (and how you can do better). Think: SELF - ANALYSIS f. Use behavioral examples, not generalities. g. Grading is as follows: 4 well - written/thorough/on target experiences = 95 - 100 4 weakly written/terse/some off target experiences = 75 - 94 3 well - written/thorough/on target experiences = 70 - 75 3 weakly written/terse/some off target experiences = 50 - 70 2 or well written experiences = 50 maximum 2 weakly written poor experiences = 35 maximum h. Please attach the feedback sheet (at end of s yllabus) to your report. Due Date: October 6, 201 5 2. Article Concept Experience Report (ACE) II (20 points) Your second ACE must consist of six (6) concepts and related experiences, as discussed above, taken from your article readings, as we ll as those in films, class discussion, and your textbook. Please note the following: a. Again, emphasize self - analysis primarily and your organization and its members secondarily. b. Use concepts and articles not used in the first ACE. Emphasize co ncepts covered in the second half of the class. c. A minimum of four concepts must come from four different articles. A maximum of two may come from other sources (i.e., textbook, videos, etc.). You need a total of 6 sources. d. The concepts m ust come from readings covered since the last ACE was turned in. Due Date: November 17 , 201 5 - 4 - 2 . Class P articipation and Assignments (20 points) Because of the experiential nature of this course, your active participation in exercises, de briefings, analyses and discussions is expected and evaluated. The evaluation will be based partially on two short written assignment to be completed after the two designated nights of the class, and even more so on your actual classroom discussion and pa rticipation. I will note the quantity of your discussion and, more importantly , the quality mostly to the extent to which you seem to be paying attention to what's going on in class and trying to think about ideas and relate them to your own expe rience. Please note the following: a. Here's where attendance will be reflected in your grade. b. Talking just to be talking without really relating to the topic at hand counts for nothing. Try to stay on target and involved, while relating discuss ions to materials read. c. Your experiences and ideas may help facilitate learning. Therefore, they are important. d. Questions are important, too. If something is unclear to you, ask about it. Someone else probably is even more confused than you. The only stupid question is the one you fail to ask. e. If you're shy or introverted, here's the time to learn to overcome that tendency. Speaking up gets rewarded here, just as it does in real life, and there's no penalty here for making a mistake. 3 . Final Exam (50 points) Your final exam is a take - home, essay exam. It is comprehensive, covering the entire assigned text s and all articles. A sample final exam is included as part of this syllabus. a. There is no procedure for a make - up ex am. b. Expected length is 15 pages + or 2 pages (standard business 11 point type size and font, double spaced, 1 inch margins) Maximum of 20 pages c. No footnoting or referencing is required. Due Date for the Final Exam: 12/4 (for extra credit) or 12/8 (normal credit) 4 . Article/Book Summaries You may write as many as four article or book summaries for extra credit points. Each summary is worth one point. The articles must be ones not already assigned for class and must come from one of the journals listed elsewhere in this syllabus. The summary should contain a very brief overview (1 to 1½ typed, double spaced pages) of the article and a brief (1/2 to 3/4 page) explanation of how the article relates to you, why you chose this - 5 - article, or wh y you think it is important. Less than this gets less that full credit. For a book, pick out some key concepts from the book or a section of the book, and relate them to your personal experience. These summaries should be only about 2 pages long. D ue Date: No Later the Date of the Final Exam Due Date Management 7135 Schedule Note that your professor reserves the right to alter this schedule as circumstances may dictate. All changes will be announced in class and on eCourseware and you are responsible for these changes. If you miss a class, ask one of your team members about any changes. AB = Article Book (articles should be read before the class discussed if at all possible R = Robbins Essentials of Organizational Behavior text (my chap ters are f rom Edition 10 ) N = Northouse, Leadership (my chapter designations are from the 6 th edition yours may vary) Class Date Assignment 1 8 /2 5 Class Introduction and Socialization Socialization Exercise - Listening Discuss Syllabus and Article Book Complete MBTI for next class 2 9 / 1 Organizational Socialization : Leader as Determiner of Norms, Values Organization Culture Organizational Change Values, Ethics, and Attitudes N: Chapters 1,10, 11, 16 ( Book Intro., Servant Leadership, Authe ntic Leadership , Leadership and Ethics R: Chapters 15 (Culture & Socialization) 2 (Values) 16 (Change) AB: Schein ; Nielson; Conger and Kanungo , Hofstede (1993) Due Today: Homework Assignment/Socialization 3 9/8 Perception and Attribution Processes Film: Pygmalion and the Self - Fulfilling Prophecy Influence of Perception & Attribution N: Ch. 15 (Culture ) R: Chapter 3 ( Perception ) AB: Zalkind and Costello; 4 , 5 9/15 & 9/22 Communication in Organizations Communicat ion in the Role of the Leader Discussion Dominoes Exercise - 6 - Role Play Debriefings R: Chapter 10 ( Communications ) AB : Gibb , Porter & Samov ar 6 9/29 Personality and the MBTI MBTI Materials; AB: Martinko and Gardner; Gist ; Smith and Canger ; Canger N: Chapter 8, 13 (Psychodynamic Approach to Leadership, LMX Theory) R: Chapter 2 (Personality) 7 10/6 Leader as the Manager of Employee Performance Performance Model Goal Setting, Herzberg, JCM, Equity R: Chapters 5,6 ,7 ( Motivation , Emotions, Mood s) AB: Deci ; K err ; Locke & Latham 2005 ; Optional Thompson, et.al. Stretch Targets N: Chapter 7 (Path Goal Theory ) Due Today: Article Concept Experience (ACE) Report #1 Homework Assignment #2: MBTI and Teams 8 10/13 Leadership and Motivation Performance Management Exercise R: Chapter 7 ( Emotions and Moods ) AB: Hamner and Hamner 9 10/20 Leadership - Power and Politics , Traits Discuss Power - Power Exercise Leadership Theories & Models - What Leaders Are and Do Discuss Ma jor Leadership Theories R: Chapters 11, 12 ( Power Politics, Leadership Models) AB: Yukl & Taber ; Kirkpatrick & Locke ; Kotter N: Chapters 2,3, 4 , 5 (Major Leadership Models: Trait Approach, Power, Leadership Styles, Situational Leadershi p) 10 10/27 Leadership - Participation and Empowerment Discuss Participation Models - Vroom Cases Completed and Discussed Leadership Practices AB: Vroom Materials ; Carlisle ; Muczyk & Reimann (2 nd ) ; Luthans ; Conger; N: 6, 8 (Contingency Approach, LMX) - 7 - 11 11/3 Transformational Leadership and the Leadership Challenge View video on the Leadership Challenge Discuss Transformational Leadership N: Cha pter 9 ( Transformational Leadership ) AB: Bass ; Brown and Moshovi 12 11/10 Comp lete Leadership Models Discussion 13 11/17 Group Behavior New Truck Dilemma Exercise Role Nomination Form N: Chapter 11 (Team Leadership) R: Chapters 8, 9 (Groups and T eams ) AB: Forrester and Drexler; Katzenbach & Smith ; Burke & Miller Due Today: A CE REPORT #2 14 11/24 12/1 Groups - Ineffective Group Functioning Film: Group Dynamics , Groupthink Discussion: Relate Groupthink to Effective Group Functioning Roles Conflict, Disputes and Intergroup Behavior R: Chapter 13 (Conflict) AB: Janis ; How I Act in Conflict Questionnaire; Pondy Wrap Up and Final Exam Review Day 12/4 Final Exam Due if you want 5 Points Extra C redit. 12/8 Final Exam Due for Normal Credit - 8 - Sampl e Article Concept Experience Report Article: "Organization Socialization and the Profession of Management" Author: E. Schein Situational #1 In graduate schools the students must become socialized very quickly as to the norms and values of the doctoral program. This experience relates to my first year of graduate school at LSU when the first year doctoral students were forced to quickly learn the norms and values and to band together in order to survive. Concept #1: Organization socia lization involves the learning of organizationally relevant norms, values, and behavior patterns, such as basic organizational goals, preferred means of attaining goals, members' basic role responsibilities. Learning these norms, values and behaviors faci litates the transition into the organization and, ultimately, overall success as an organization member. Experience #1 In my first year of graduate school, I learned some of the important rules and norms very quickly. Once, when I questioned the validi ty of what one stat professor was saying, I got shot down very quickly. I learned that asking "challenging" questions that made the instructor look stupid was taboo. The harsh look and pointedly sarcastic reply I got told me to be careful. I also learne d quickly that missing our 7.30 a.m. "ProSeminar in Psychology" was taboo as well. The word got around before the class even began (from upper class students) that this class was considered sacred by the professor who taught it, if for no other reason tha n the fact that he, too, hated to get up that early. Result #1 Fortunately, I learned the pivotal norms fairly quickly and also learned to study hard and pass very difficult essay exams. I survived the first year and was in the top half of my class. My roommate learned some of the norms but missed out on the one about studying ALTERNATIVE EXAMPLE FROM THAT SAME ARTICLE (YOU MUST USE ONLY ONE PER ARTICLE ) Article Organizational Soci alization and the Profession of Management Author Edgar Schein Situation #2 After my first year at LSU, I was drafted into the Army. I had to learn a completely different set or norms and values from that learned in my doctoral program. The Army strives to first break you down and separate you from your previous norms of freedom, independence, serf reliance and individualism. Concept #2: Upending experiences of socialization help to "unfreeze" the neophyte from previously accepted attitudes, norms, and values. They are generally unpleasant experiences that upend one emotionally and, hopefully, lead to greater acceptance of the new norms the organization is promoting. - 9 - Experience #2: When I was drafted into the Army in June 1971, my first ex perience with basic training came shortly after my arrival at Fort Jackson, South Carolina, at 2.00 a.m. on a Saturday morning. We were told that we could sleep late the following day, since we had gotten in so late. Promptly at 5.30 a.m. the next mornin g, the barracks doors flew open and a screaming first serg eant started telling us "perverts " that we were "in the Army now" and not back home with our mommies. We proceeded to march to the mess for my first taste of Army cooking and then quickly to the ba rber to get our heads shaved. It became very clear that whatever the norms and values we had been accustomed to in civilian life were no longer in place here. The good life was over and we were definitely IN THE ARMY NOW !!! Results #2 I learned very quickly to discard any perceptions I may have had about life liberty and the pursuit of happiness in the good ole USA. I quickly adopt a new set of norms and values that allowed me to survive the Army. I successfully completed my two req uired years and as soon as I was released I headed back to the cushy life of being a grad student. - 10 - Article: "Barriers and Gateways to Communications" Author: Rogers and Roethlisberger Situation #3 Shortly after class concluded , I received a pr omotion to a another management position in a slightly different area of my organization. It was a promotion to a collateral area. Concept #3: The communication process is not over until communication completes a full cycle back to the sender. Feedb ack is essential to clarify and reinforce the commonality of shared information. It is the link between the receiver and the sender that ensures effective communication. Feedback makes possible a two - way process, reversing the sender and receiver roles s o that information can be shared, recycled and fine - tuned to avoid ambiguity. Application #3: On January 18 th , I assumed responsibility for a new organization. While some of the responsibilities had previously existed in another department and were t ransferred to me, others were new. In addition, my vision of how these responsibilities fit together was completely different. Over the past month , I have worked to communicate this vision to my team members and, until recently, believed that I had done so successfully. However, one team member sent me a memo recently, which clearly let me know that this individual was not "on - board" with what I believed was "our program". In response, I set up a one - on - one meeting with this individual to address h is concerns. After this meeting, I felt that we had had a healthy exchange and was comfortable that he had bought into the team's vision. This was until I received a second memo. This second memo, and the meet ing that followed it were a couple weeks ago. During this time, I made a more concerted effort to understand the message that this individual was sending. I made every effort to be empathic to his concerns. Having made an attempt to analyze where the miscommunication may have occurred in the first meeting, I concluded that it could quite possibly have been due to insufficient feedback. Subsequent to the second meeting, I summarized, in writing, our conversation, to ensure that we had both had arrived at the same understanding. Resul ts #3 Now, three weeks after the second meeting, I am encouraged by the positive changes I have noticed in this individual's attitude and performance. He seems to be much clearer in my expectations of him, and I have a new found understanding of how he c an best fit into the vision of where my new department needs to go. - 11 - Extra Credit Article Summaries Suggested Journals This list is not meant to be an exhaustive list of the journals available. It is simply meant to illustrate some of the j ournals available to you. Academy of Management Executive * Academy of Management Journal Academy of Management Review Administrative Science Quarterly Administrative Management Behavioral Science California Management Review * Group and Organi zation Management Harvard Business Review * Human Relations Industrial and Labor Relations Review Journal of Vocational Behavior Journal of Applied Psychology Journal of Applied Behavioral Science Journal of Personality and Social Psychology Journa l of Management Organizational Dynamics * Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes Personnel Psychology Psychological Bulletin Public Personnel Review * Sloan Management Review * Training and Development Journal * * These journals ar e ones you may find, in general, to be more readable. They have less of a statistical orientation and contain articles of interest to managers and executives, as well as academicians. - 12 - Sample Final Exam MGMT 7130 SEMINAR IN ORGANIZATIONS Pretend you are the regional sales manager for Happy Face Frozen Foods (HFFF), a large producer of specialty frozen food entrees and numerous other frozen food items. Your southern region consists of seven districts, all headed by a district sales manager. All of y our districts are performing according to your sales projection levels except District IV (Georgia - Florida) which is run by Kate Oliver. Kate's sales figures are about 10% below the levels of other nearby districts, in spite of the fact that her area shou ld be one of the better ones, based on demographic analyses and market tests the company has conducted. Last week you talked to Kate and mentioned the sales figures. She said she was doing the best she could (which she reminded you was exactly what you had asked of her when she took over) and didn't think her performance was all that bad. Still, you feel that she doesn't seem to be putting in the effort necessary to get the job done, even though she's young, aggressive, talks a lot, and was a top sale s rep before she took over the district just six months ago. You have also talked to several of Kate's eight sales reps, including Terry Sharp, Alonzo Wharton, Kenny Golden and Mike Burrage Although they could not, or would not, give you any specific i nformation, they seemed nervous about discussing Kate's performance and that of the district as a whole. Terry alluded to sexual harassment concerns, and mumbled something about women pinching his "buns" at a recent training event. Alonzo kept rambling o n about the negative affects of norms involving too much competition within the district. Kenny noted several times that he had invited Kate to attend one of his AA meetings with him, but wouldn't say why? All Mike did was complain about the rising co st of table dances and couch dances but wouldn't directly relate them to Kate. They all mentioned Kate's aggressive leadership style but were vague and gave no real details, preferring to give it a little more time before saying what was on their minds. You sensed a possible weakness in the relationship Kate was having with her subordinates. You're concerned that a little more time may be enough to ruin the sales figures for the year and possibly even get you into trouble with the company. Therefore, you would like to figure out what's wrong and take some action as soon as possible. Using the effort - performance - reward - satisfaction model discussed in class (as well as any other relevant motivation, communication, leadership , perception, conflict, o rganizational change, appraisal, rewards, socialization, etc. models, theories and concepts) analyze the possible causes of the performance deficiency in Kate and in her sales staff. Also note some of the potential solutions suggested by each particular potential cause ( preferably as you go along). Note as well any potential problem areas or process issues (e.g., perception biases, communication problems) that you would want to be aware of as you go about interacting with Kate and the others while makin g your diagnosis of problems. Also, how would you analyze your own behavior as a leader with respect to your part in this district's weakness. What might you do, based on any models or concepts discussed in class, to improve your personal performance i n this matter. Next week you are going to Kate's district sales meeting in Orlando to set in on and observe the meeting. District managers meet monthly with their sales reps to discuss issues and disseminate information and you usually visit each on a rotating basis. Fortunately this is the month to attend Kate's meeting (your 'first' time with her "at a meeting" since the first meeting when you appointed her six months ago) and you are looking forward to the opportunity to observe her meeting behavio rs with her eight sales representatives. Based on concepts, models, etc. learned in class, what kinds of things might you be looking for in the "group" meeting. "Since you are short of cash", you have also planned a little golf game with Mike Cloutier , Ricks Mason, and Ben Benson, three other of Kate's sales reps. Cloutier, being the feeling type that he is, offered to bring along - 13 - the other sales rep, Lanie Jackson, the company ambulance chaser, Bruce Landau, and the company secretary, Pete Moss to s erve as caddies. He said they were all real "sweeties" and wouldn't mind helping out. He offered to get you Colleen Listengart, company historian, as your caddie, and noted the extra benefit she would offer by carrying her computer along on the golf cour se and recording everything that was said. You'll be exploring potential problems Kate is having as you play. You're sure at least Ben will talk to you since he talks all the time anyway about everything. You're hoping they all will give you some inform ation you can use in your analysis. You're also hoping Ricks even shows up somewhere near on time, a rare occasion, so that they don't refuse to let you play your round of golf. Remember that HFFF's ultimate success and your future with the company may rest on how well you handle this problem. Good luck! P. S. References to real persons, alive or "missing", and to traits they may possess are, of course, purely accidental.