#http://www.memphis.edu/herff/eday.php
E-day - Herff Home - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Herff College of Engineering Future Students Current Students Alumni Research Departments About Home Herff Home E-day E-Day is an annual open house event hosted by the Herff College of Engineering at the University of Memphis. Composed of numerous activities, including the competitions outlined below as well as engineering lab tours and multiple walk-up activities throughout the college, the event has historically attracted thousands of Memphis area middle and high school students! This year, E-Day will also be a part of STEMconnector®'s STEM Career Accelerator Day . EDAY COMPETITIONS By clicking on the name of the competitions below, you will find the descriptions and competition rules for each, and you will be able to register for your team's (or individual) time slot. BioMaterial Design ES 317 Flash Building ES 222 Transportation Challenge EA 1st Floor Boat Race ET 120 Kicker EA 304 Wall EA 2nd Floor Cardboard Beam ES 109 K'NEX Building EA 102 Water Filtration ES 207 Egg Drop Contest McWherter Library Robotics Demo Canceled Wing Design ES 113 There will also be a First Lego League scrimmage event. Here is the link to this registration system for this event, which will be held in the Engineering Technology Building ( ET 204 ). For more information, please contact Thomas Banning . Here is a full list of E-Day competitions as well as other displays and demonstrations with their locations. You may click on the links below to find maps of each of the engineering buildings: Engineering Administration (EA) EA 1st Floor EA 2nd Floor EA 3rd Floor Engineering Science Building (ES) ES 1st Floor ES 2nd Floor ES 3rd Floor Engineering Technology Building (ET) ET 1st Floor ET 2nd Floor ET 3rd Floor MLGW's A-Blazing Race We are excited to announce that MLGW's A-Blazing Race will be held in conjunction with E-Day this year. Visit their site for more information and registration details. Logistics Parking Parking is available in the main Central Avenue lot on campus. You will receive a parking permit in the mail once you register for E-Day. Please be sure to display this hang tag in your vehicle to avoid a parking ticket. Buses will unload in front of the Engineering Administration Building (labeled EA on the Campus Map) and then MUST proceed to Goodlett and then Poplar Avenue to access the Conlee Lot for parking. Click here for the parking map. Dining Click on the link above to find the locations of all the dining options on the University of Memphis campus. For planning purposes, expect to spend approximately $7- $10 per meal, depending on the dining option selected. Visit Herff See what Herff has to offer YOU! Give to Herff Shape the future of engineering today! Herff Faculty &amp; Staff Herff Faculty &amp; Staff E-Day E-Day Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .