#http://www.memphis.edu/memphistem/pdfs/learningskillshandout.pdf
A Cheat Sheet for Study Skills: 7 Recommendations from Experts Adapted from: Pashler, H., Bain, P. M., Bottge , B. A., Graesser, A., Koedinger, K. R., McDaniel, M., & Metcalfe, J. (2007). Organizing instruction and study to improve student learning. ( NCER 2007 - 2004 ). Washington, DC: National Center for Education Research, Institute of Education Sciences, U.S. Dept.,. of Education. Recommendation 1: Space learning over time Long - term memory is stronger if you distribute your practice over time. Begin studying in advance, cramming only produces short - term memory gains. Gradually increase time between review sessions (see Wikipedia on the Leitner method) Recommendation 2: Incorporate both worked example solutions and problem - solving exercises If you are having difficulty solving problems, consider studying examples. Examples of solved problems are good to study if you are stuck on a similar problem. Worked examples show the structure of the solution, how it should be done. Recommendation 3: Combine images with verbal descriptions Create images to help understand written material, consider pictures, graphs, etc. Images may also be used to organize (e.g. periodic table or biological taxonomy). Images add to verbal learning rather than being redundant. Recommendation 4: Connect and integrate abstract and concrete representations of concepts It is typically appropriate to begin learning by using concrete examples. Once concrete examples are understood, introduce abstract concepts, connecting the examples to the concept to increase understanding. Integrating both perspectives can maximize learning and test performance. Recommendation 5: Use quizzes to practice learned information Quizzing yourself repeatedly (ex. 1 - 2 times per week) causes information to become stored in long term memory. Continue to quiz items until after you succeed several times with spacing in between. Recommendation 6: U se tests and quizzes to identify content that needs to be learned Incorrectly answered questions reveal content that needs additional practice. Focus future practice on items that are confusing or forgotten. Recommendation 7: Help build explanations by asking and answering deep questions answering essay questions in your head will help you to gain deeper understanding. Explain things to yourself in the same way as you might explain things to another person. Self - explanation can be difficult, but when it succeeds it strengthens deep knowledge and when it fails it helps you to identify where you need to study and learn more. Dr. Philip I. Pavlik Jr. IIS and Psychology ppavlik@memphis.edu