#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/mapping-civil-rights/1968.php
1968, The Sanitation Workers and Dr. King - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections Mapping Civil Rights Mapping Civil Rights History Early Memphis Civil War and Reconstruction Early Twentieth Century Memphis The Crump Era Memphis and World War II The Civil Rights Era Begins in Memphis Desegregation of Memphis City Schools 1968, The Sanitation Workers and Dr. King Memphis in the 1970s and 1980s Memphis Today About the Mapping Civil Rights History Project Interactive Map Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks Mapping Civil Rights 1968, The Sanitation Workers and Dr. King 1968, The Sanitation Workers and Dr. King The year 1968 proved to be a turning point for gradualism of integration and racial justice in Memphis. Spurred by the gruesome deaths of two African American sanitation workers, sanitation employees went on strike for higher wages, better working conditions, and union recognition. The strike received national attention and attracted civil rights leaders, including Martin Luther King, Jr., to Memphis. By the late 1960s, King had become more vocal on issues such as the Vietnam War and economic injustice. In 1967, he created the Poor People's Campaign with the goal of achieving economic opportunities and adequate housing conditions for poor Americans -- regardless of color. King's shift in ideology angered some of his supporters. However, local African American leadership in Memphis continued to support King and felt that his presence could help the striking sanitation workers. 1968 Sanitation Worker Strikes. Photo courtesy of Memphis Press-Scimitar archives, University of Memphis. On March 28, 1968, King arrived in the city to lead a march through downtown Memphis. The demonstration began peacefully but quickly deteriorated into a violent confrontation as young people at the back of the line of marchers, some taunting the police and chanting "black power," began smashing windows and looting businesses along Beale Street. Police responded by attacking the marchers and the resulting riot left one marcher - sixteen-year-old Larry Payne - dead, sixty-four other people injured, and 300 arrested. Local leaders rushed King from the scene. Determined to lead a peaceful march in Memphis as a prelude to the planned Poor People's March on Washington, D.C., King left the city but vowed to come back to finish what he had started. He returned on April 3, and delivered his famous "I've Been to the Mountaintop" address at Mason Temple. The following afternoon, King was assassinated on the balcony of the Lorraine Motel. King's death caused a mixed reaction of mourning and rioting across the nation. In Memphis, burning and looting resulted in more than $400,000 in damage to property but the rioting did not reach the level of destruction in larger cities such as Los Angeles, Chicago and Detroit. Negotiations continued between the Memphis city government, the sanitation workers and AFSCME, the union attempting to get recognition to represent the sanitation workers. On April 16, 1968, the strike ended with concessions that included union recognition and higher wages. The strike proved that with unity, patience, and persistence, the Memphis power structure could be forced to change long held views on race, class, and employment. After King's assassination, the African American community continued applying pressure on the white establishment. In the summer of 1968, the NAACP created the Ghetto Development Project (GHD) to increase jobs at white-owned businesses in black communities. When these businesses refused to comply with the organization's demands, the GHD led boycotts and pickets at three large shopping districts that were located in predominantly black communities: Bellevue-McLemore, Hollywood-Chelsea, and Lamar-Airways. The protests resulted in a majority of the employers agreeing to hire more African Americans at all level jobs. Black Monday Protests. Source: Bond, Beverly G. and Janann Sherman. Memphis in Black and White. Arcadia Publishing, 2003. A larger showdown occurred the following year, when the NAACP led "Black Monday" boycotts against the Memphis City Schools. In an effort to secure equal representation on the all-white school board, the local NAACP branch sent a list of fifteen demands to the board. When the school board refused to comply, the NAACP asked students to stay away from schools on Mondays. At its height, more than 67,000 students missed classes in predominantly African American schools throughout the city. In solidarity, African American employees skipped work and participated in boycotts, marches, and picketing to support the NAACP's effort. By mid-November, a bi-racial committee negotiated a settlement that called for the creation of two at-large positions on the board. In 1971, Maxine Smith became the first African American elected to the Memphis City Board of Education. Mapping Civil Rights Mapping Civil Rights History Early Memphis Civil War and Reconstruction Early Twentieth Century Memphis The Crump Era Memphis and World War II The Civil Rights Era Begins in Memphis Desegregation of Memphis City Schools 1968, The Sanitation Workers and Dr. King Memphis in the 1970s and 1980s Memphis Today About the Mapping Civil Rights History Project Interactive Map Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .