#http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/people/faculty/howell.php
Kathryn H. Howell, Ph.D. - Department of Psychology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research Resources People Faculty Frank Andrasik Karen Linville Baker J. Gayle Beck Kristoffer S. Berlin Jeffrey S. Berman Cheryl Bowers Jason L. G. Braasch Robert Cohen Melloni N. Cook William O. Dwyer Thomas K. Fagan Randy G. Floyd Arthur C. Graesser David A. Houston Kathryn H. Howell Xiangen Hu Stephanie Huette Xu Jiang Roger J. Kreuz Deranda Lester Brook A. Marcks Meghan McDevitt-Murphy Elizabeth B. Meisinger Andrew W. Meyers James G. Murphy Robert A. Neimeyer Andrew M. Olney Philip I. Pavlik Jr. Leslie A. Robinson M. David Rudd Helen J. K. Sable Idia B. Thurston James P. Whelan William H. Zachry Staff Staff Personnel Home Department of Psychology People Kathryn H. Howell, Ph.D. Kathryn H. Howell, Ph.D. Assistant Professor, Clinical (Child and Family) Phone 901.678.1541 Email khhwell1@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2579 Office Psychology Building, Room 356 Office Hours Contact Website CV Education Ph.D., University of Michigan M.S., University of Michigan B.S., Cornell University Research Interests Environmental, psychological, and physiological mechanisms that promote resilience or reduce risk for psychiatric problems in the context of early traumatic stress Evidence-based interventions for children and families exposed to traumatic events, such as family violence and interpersonal loss Community-oriented studies to explore the various pathways to positive and negative functioning following exposure to traumatic events in childhood Dr. Howell will be interviewing doctoral applicants for fall 2015 admission. Recent Publications Howell, K. H., Barrett-Becker, E. P., Burnside, A. N., Wamser-Nanney, R., Layne, C. M., &amp; Kaplow, J. B. (in press). Children facing parental cancer versus parental death: The buffering effects of positive parenting and emotional expression. Journal of Child and Family Studies. Howell, K. H., Barnes, S. E., Miller, L. E., &amp; Graham-Bermann, S. A. (in press). Developmental variations in the impact of intimate partner violence exposure during childhood. Journal of Injury and Violence Research. Howell, K. H., Shapiro, D. N., Layne, C. M., &amp; Kaplow, J. B. (2015). Individual and psychosocial mechanisms of adaptive functioning in parentally bereaved children. Death Studies. Howell, K. H., Miller, L. E., Lilly, M. M., Burlaka, V., Grogan-Kaylor, A., &amp; Graham-Bermann, S. A. (2015). Strengthening positive parenting through intervention: Evaluating the Moms’ Empowerment Program for women experiencing intimate partner violence. Journal of Interpersonal Violence. Miller, L. E., Howell, K. H., &amp; Graham-Bermann, S. A. (2014). The effect of an evidence-based intervention on women's exposure to intimate partner violence. American Journal of Orthopsychiatry, 84 (4), 321-328. Howell, K. H. &amp; Miller-Graff, L. E. (2014). Protective factors associated with resilient functioning in young adulthood after childhood exposure to violence. Child Abuse &amp; Neglect, 38 (12), 1985-1994. Kaplow, J. B., Howell, K. H., &amp; Layne, C. M. (2014). Do circumstances of the death matter? Identifying socioenvironmental risks for grief-related psychopathology in bereaved youth. Journal of Traumatic Stress, 27 (1), 42-49. Howell, K. H., Miller, L. E., Lilly, M. M., &amp; Graham-Bermann, S. A. (2013). Fostering social competence in preschool children exposed to intimate partner violence: Evaluating the Preschool Kids' Club intervention. Journal of Aggression, Maltreatment &amp; Trauma, 22 (4), 425-445. Howell, K. H., Miller, L. E., &amp; Graham-Bermann, S. A. (2012). Evaluating preschool children’s attitudes and beliefs about intimate partner violence. Violence &amp; Victims, 27 (6), 941-956. Miller, L. E., Howell, K. H., &amp; Graham-Bermann, S. A. (2012). Potential mediators of adjustment in children exposed to intimate partner violence. Child Abuse &amp; Neglect, 36, 671-675. Howell, K. H. (2011). Resilience and psychopathology in children exposed to family violence. Aggression and Violent Behavior: A Review Journal, 16, 562-569. People Faculty Frank Andrasik Karen Linville Baker J. Gayle Beck Kristoffer S. Berlin Jeffrey S. Berman Cheryl Bowers Jason L. G. Braasch Robert Cohen Melloni N. Cook William O. Dwyer Thomas K. Fagan Randy G. Floyd Arthur C. Graesser David A. Houston Kathryn H. Howell Xiangen Hu Stephanie Huette Xu Jiang Roger J. Kreuz Deranda Lester Brook A. Marcks Meghan McDevitt-Murphy Elizabeth B. Meisinger Andrew W. Meyers James G. Murphy Robert A. Neimeyer Andrew M. Olney Philip I. Pavlik Jr. Leslie A. Robinson M. David Rudd Helen J. K. Sable Idia B. Thurston James P. Whelan William H. Zachry Staff Staff Personnel Psychology Graduate Programs Application Click on link to Apply to the Department of Psychology Graduate Program The Psychological Services Center PSC provides general outpatient psychotherapeutic and psychological assessment services to individuals and families Teaching Take-Out This website is a resource for busy teachers who want to enrich their classes while preserving the time they need for research and other important professional activities. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/29/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .