#http://www.memphis.edu/lipman/uofm_students/field_experience.php
Field Experience - Lipman - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Barbara K. Lipman Early Childhood School and Research Institute About Programs Research Meet Us P.A.L.S. UofM Students Contact Us UofM Students Employment Opportunities Field Experience Home Lipman UofM Students Field Experience Guidelines for University Student Participation The staff, parents and children say, “Welcome to the Lipman School!" We anticipate that your learning experience here will be of benefit to your academic career and also to the classroom demonstrations. For a descriptive overview of our program, please visit our Academic Programs page. As You Prepare For Your Visit Please Note… Be sure that you understand the nature of an early childhood education laboratory school, WHY you are here and WHAT you are supposed to accomplish during your visit. Your instructor/professor will supply us with a current syllabus from your class so that we may assist in your success. Schedule your visit in advance by calling 901.678.2120 and be on time. We have many students who rotate through during a semester and our Office Coordinator keeps an accurate record of who, what, and how many different student participations are being conducted. A sign posted on the portico will direct you to the Office. Please state what it is you need to do here such as an observation, a practicum, a student teaching experience, etc. Unannounced students arriving without an appointment will NOT be accommodated. Upon arrival, please sign in at the Office and get a name badge to identify you while you are here. If you cannot come for some reason, please call to let us know. We will explain to the children. Dress appropriately . Working with preschoolers requires clothing that is clean, comfortable and washable as well as professional in appearance. If you will be performing ‘teacher tasks', then look like a teacher. Remember that YOU are responsible for the quality of your experience here. We, the staff, are here to guide, to teach, to evaluate, and to support you. Whatever questions you may have about what you see or hear should be directed to the supervising teacher or the director. But YOU are responsible for making the contact, arriving on time, keeping track of hours, asking questions, rescheduling if you need to make up some time and making certain you are successful. If you are experiencing difficulties accomplishing your assignments here, please talk with the classroom supervising teacher or the director. We can help. Observations Inside The Classroom In order to enhance valid observations, no more than two people are allowed to observe inside the classroom at the same time unless the classroom teacher specifically states otherwise. Classrooms with observation windows can accommodate numerous students at the same time for a visual observation. Auditory observation must be done inside the classrooms. Suggested Observer Behaviors… Be unobtrusive. Have your materials such as notebooks, observation journals, pens, etc. ready for you to work with rather than disturb the class by rummaging through your backpack. If a child inquires about your presence, tell them you are here, “…to watch them play and work with the teacher." HOLD your questions for the supervising teacher when she/he is not involved in classroom activities. It is further suggested that you make an appointment with the supervising teacher at a later time. Whenever possible, sit — do not stand — to observe. In their anxiety to “see everything", observers sometimes hover over children so that the children become self-conscious or wildly excited and stop the process the observer came to see. Do not feel you must remain rooted in one spot. If you need to move to another vantage point, do so as inconspicuously as possible. If there is more than one observer in a classroom, each should take a different spot. There may be no talking or whispering to each other about what they are observing because it will interfere with the process. Field Experiences Or Required Teaching Activities If your assignment requirement is to teach a lesson, then you should prepare yourself for the experience. Pre-Teaching Requirements: If you have not already done so, observe at least a half hour to one hour in the classroom during the same approximate time you will be implementing your lesson. This will give you some idea as to the classroom chemistry or bio-rhythm . Schedule a time with the supervising teacher of the age appropriate group to whom you will be implementing your lesson. Submit to that teacher your lesson plan one week in advance so that it may be approved or improved by that teacher. (You may fax them to 901.323.9560 if you have already been in contact with the supervising teacher.) The supervising teacher will go over with you matters of importance such as: Developmental appropriateness Lesson topic or project Group size of the number of children who will participate Materials to be used Suggested Teaching Behaviors… Be on time! It is professionally courteous. Enter the room respectfully. Even though we will be expecting your arrival, it is important to smoothly transition yourself into the ongoing program. Get down on the child's level physically. Sit, kneel, or bend down while talking eye-to-eye with children. Make an effort to call the children by his/her name. Be specific, be positive, not negative. Give alternative responses to inappropriate or incorrect answers. For example, rather than tell a child, “No, that's not right…" say something like, “If you'll think about that some more you may decide to change your answer." Or “Keep thinking on this…" Discipline is the ultimate responsibility of the Lipman School staff. If you are experiencing difficult behaviors from the children, stop the lesson, gain control of the group and try again. Your frustration level is proportional to the children's frustration level. If the behaviors persist, request the Lipman School staff to step in. Should you not be able to come at the appointment time, call as soon as possible to the school office at 678-2120 to alert us that you will not be coming. You must reschedule your time with the supervising teacher of the room to whom you have been assigned. You may not just show up at random. Case Studies If your assignment is to conduct a case study on an individual child there are certain steps you, the student, must follow for maintaining confidentiality with our children and families. Check with the supervising teacher about the child you have chosen and get her green light. We try to make certain the same child is not chosen each semester. Fill out the form letter for parents from your course instructor and give it to the supervising teacher or the graduate assistant in the classroom to which you are assigned. Because of confidentiality issues we cannot give out contact numbers for parents, so the Lipman School staff will make certain the parent receives your letter. Should you not get a timely response from the cooperating parent, please let the supervising teacher, the Office Coordinator or the Director know as soon as possible. We will try to expedite the parent contact. If more than a week goes by and you still have had no response, please call us or come by so that we can see what the problem may be. UofM Students Employment Opportunities Field Experience Application Apply now. Calendar All the information you need for the fall and spring semester. Fees We offer full-time classes for ages 2-5, as well as after school care. Give to Lipman Thank you for your generous support! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .