#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/acad_reg/attendance.php
Class Attendance - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Academic Regulations Class Attendance Class Attendance Instructors may use class attendance in computing grades. If they choose to do so, they must present all students attending the first and second class meetings with a complete written statement of their policy, detailing the weight of attendance in determining the final grade. A student who is absent from the final examination without the permission of the teacher incurs a grade of "F" on the examination and may, depending on the weight of the examination in determining the final grade, incur a grade of "F" for the course. Instructors will report to the Office of the Registrar all students who have not attended any class meetings during the first two weeks of classes (fall/spring) or the first week of classes (summer). About 2-3 weeks into both the fall and spring semesters, instructors will begin recording attendance. This is required for financial aid and veteran service reporting. After this process is underway, the Registrar's office will notify all students to check their reported attendance. Students accept both fee and grade liability at the time of registration. Students who do not attend classes are responsible for processing an official drop/withdrawal on Student Self Service. In order to avoid fee or grade liability, students must drop/withdraw prior to the first day of classes for the session in which the course is taught. Students who receive VA benefits or Title IV funds (federal financial assistance) for enrollment fees but who stop attending, may have current and future awards canceled and may have to repay benefits immediately, whether or not they officially withdraw or drop courses. Furthermore, students who stop attending will be assigned a grade of "F" in courses from which they have not officially withdrawn. Instructors report the last known date of attendance as the student's "unofficial withdrawal date." Adding and Dropping Courses After the official registration period is over, students may make adjustments in their schedules through the process of adding and/or dropping courses. Courses dropped through the 14th calendar day of sessions seven weeks or longer or the 7th calendar day of sessions shorter than seven weeks will not be shown on the student's permanent record. Courses dropped after these days will be shown on the permanent record with withdrawal grades of "W". A student may drop any course or courses up through the last day to drop specified in the University Calendar for that session. Requests for exceptions must be made by the end of the next regular term following the term in which the grade was assigned, and normally only as part of a request for withdrawal from the University. Exceptions are made only by the dean in the college in which the student is earning a degree, or by the dean's designee, and only on the basis of such extenuating circumstances as serious personal illness and relocation because of employment. To stop attending a class without officially dropping the course incurs the grade of "F". A course may be added late only upon permission of the dean or designee in the college of the student's major, or the Academic Counseling Center for undeclared students. The student must also have the written permission of the course instructor. Late Registration Policy The University of Memphis allows late registration for a short period of time after the Regular Registration period has ended. The dates and deadlines vary by semester and can be determined by consulting the appropriate semester within the "Dates &amp; Deadlines" calendar of the University's academic calendar. This policy only applies to students whose Academic Status is Good Standing or Academic Warning. Students on Academic Probation, transferring on Probation, or returning from Academic Suspension, who are admitted to the University of Memphis but have not enrolled in classes, must be registered for classes prior to the first day of class. Research on the impact of registering late for classes has generally concluded that late registrants have higher course withdrawal rates, lower grade point averages, and lower retention rates. Inan effort to retain students, improve academic success, and decrease the number of students placed on Academic Suspension, the University of Memphis recognizes that registering before classes begin is essential to promoting those goals. Withdrawal From University Any student who wishes to officially withdraw from the University may do so on the web, or in person through the Office of the Registrar in Student and Faculty Services, room 003, Wilder Tower. Failure to officially withdraw will result in grades of "F" for the courses in which the student is enrolled. NOTE: Withdrawal is not permitted beyond the last day to withdraw specified in the University Calendar for that term or session. Requests for exceptions must be made by the end of the next regular term following the term in which the grade was assigned. Exceptions are made to this policy only in cases of such extreme circumstances as serious personal illness and relocation because of employment. Withdrawal requests after the deadline should be filed in the dean's office of the student's major college or the Academic Counseling Center for students with no declared major. Enrollment Transactions Enrollment transactions include registration, adding and dropping courses, and withdrawing from the university. The official date shall be the date that the request is submitted to the Office of the Registrar, subject to the final review and approval of the Vice Provost for Enrollment Services. If the final review reveals any apparent violation of the University's academic regulations and/or contractual relationships between the University and the student, the Vice Provost for Enrollment Services has the authority to suspend the transaction pending joint review with the college dean, the department chair, and the student's academic advisor. If the joint review verifies the legitimacy of the transaction, the official date will be that originally established. If the joint review culminates in a finding that academic regulations and/or contractual relationships have been violated, the entire transaction may be permanently invalidated. Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .