#http://www.memphis.edu/mscm/faculty/smehra.php
SATISH MEHRA - MSCM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Marketing &amp; Supply Chain Management Welcome Programs Students Faculty PhD Students Publications FCBE Welcome Programs Students Faculty MKTG Faculty SCM Faculty PhD Students Publications Home MSCM Faculty SATISH MEHRA SATISH MEHRA Professor, Department of Marketing &amp; Supply Chain Management Phone 901-678-2476 Email smehra@memphis.edu Fax 901-678-2685 Office BA 246 Office Hours 11 am till 1 pm, and 2.30 pm till 3 pm , T and R Website Biography Dr. Satish Mehra is Professor of Production Operations Management in the Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics at the University of Memphis. Dr. Mehra is an active researcher and teacher of the Operations Management field for the last 35+ years. His expertise spreads over various areas in the POM field that includes JIT, Productivity, Quality Management, Strategy, Resources Management, and Competitiveness issues in the global arena. He is a frequent consultant to various businesses in the area of Just-in-Time, Materials Management, Productivity, Quality, and Competitiveness Issues. With undergraduate degrees in general science and engineering, Dr. Mehra holds MBA and Ph.D. degrees from The University of Georgia. He joined The University of Memphis in 1978. Dr. Mehra is a certified member of the American Production and Inventory Control Society (APICS) and a Certified JONAH of the Goldratt Institute in the Theory of Constraints. Dr. Mehra was the winner of the 1993 Shingo Prize for Excellence in Research on Manufacturing Techniques using Japanese Philosophy and he served as a Fulbright Fellow for the 1996-97 year. Journal of Operations Management, in their 1996 issue (14/1), ranked Dr. Mehra as one of the top 50 POM scholars in the field. In 2006, he received the Palmer Research Professorship Award from the University of Memphis. Dr. Mehra’s research writings have appeared in such journals as Decision Sciences, International Journal of Operations and Production Management, International Journal of Service Industry Management, Quality Management Journal, Interfaces, Journal of Manufacturing Technology Management, Production and Inventory Management Journal, International Journal of Quality and Reliability Management, International Journal of Operations and Quantitative Management, International Journal of Applied Quality Management, Industrial Management, Managerial Finance, Journal of Health and Human Resources Administration, Energy Policy, The Accounting Systems Journal, and Industrial Marketing Management Journal. Dr. Mehra is a member of the Decision Sciences Institute (DSI), American Production and Inventory Management Society (APICS), Production and Operations Management Society (POMS), and the Institute for Supply Management. Research Mehra Mehra, S. and M. Rhee, " On the Application of Quality Management Concepts in Education: An Example of a Korean Classroom," International Journal of Quality and Reliability Management,Vol. 26, No. 4, 2009 . Mehra, S. and S. Ranganathan, "Implementing Total Quality Management With a Focus on Enhancing Customer Satisfaction", International Journal of Quality and Reliability Management , Vol. 25, No. 9, 2008. Rhee, M. and S. Mehra, “A Strategic Review of Operations and Marketing Functions in Retail Banks”, International Journal of Service Industry Management , Vol. 17, No. 4, 2006. Mehra, S., R.A. Inman and G. Tuite, “A Simulation-Based Comparison of Lot Sizes in a Continuous Processing Industry”, Production Planning &amp; Control, Vol. 17, No. 1, 2006. Rhee, M. and S. Mehra, ”Aligning Operations, Marketing and Competitive Strategies to Enhance Performance: An Empirical Test in the Retail Banking Industry”, Omega 34(2006). Sirias, D. and S. Mehra, “Quantity Discount vs. Lead-time Dependent Discount in an Inter-organizational Supply Chain”, International Journal of Production Research , Vol. 43, No.16, 2005. Mehra, S., R.A. Inman and G. Tuite, “A Simulation-Based Comparison of TOC and Traditional Accounting Measures in a Process Industry”, Journal of Manufacturing Technology Management , Vol. 16 No. 3, 2005. Mehra, S. and R.A. Inman, “Purchasing Management and Business Competitiveness in the Coming Decade”, Production Planning &amp; Control , Vol. 15, No 7, 2004. Mehra, S. and M. Rhee, “Enhancing Educational Learning Through Some TQM Principles”, International Journal of Quality and Reliability Management , Vol. 21, No. 8, 2004. Mehra, S., S.P. Agrawal,”Total Quality as a New Global Competitive Strategy”, International Journal of Quality and Reliability Management , Vol. 20, No. 9, 2003. Mehra, S., J.M. Hoffman, and D. Sirias, "TQM as a Management Strategy for the Next Millennia", International Journal of Operations and Production Management , Vol. 21, No. 5/6, 2001. Hoffman, J.M. and S. Mehra, " Efficient Consumer Response as a Supply Chain Management Strategy for Grocery Business", International Journal of Service Industry Management , Vol. 20, No. 4, 2000. Mehra, S. and M. Rhee, "Implementing Cooperative Learning Processes in the Classroom”, Quality Management Journal , Vol. 6, No. 2, 1999. Hoffman, J.M. and S. Mehra, "Operationalizing Productivity Improvement programs Through TQM," International Journal of Quality and Reliability Management , Vol. 16, No. 1, 1999. Ramarapu, N., S. Mehra, and M. Frolick, "A Comparative Analysis and Review of JIT Implementation Research”, International Journal of Operations and Production Management , Vol.15, No. 1, 1995. Mehra, S. and M. Amini, "A Simulation Analysis of Ordering Policies Under Inflationary Conditions”, International Journal of Operations and Production Management , Vol. 14, No. 10, 1994. Mehra, S., and A. R. Inman, "Determining the Critical Elements of Just-in-Time Implementation”, Decision Sciences , Vol. 23, No. 1, 1992. Mehra, S., S. Agrawal, and M. Rajagopalan, "Some Comments on the Validity of EOQ Formula under Inflationary Conditions”, Decision Sciences , Vol. 22, No. 1, 1991. Welcome Programs Students Faculty MKTG Faculty SCM Faculty PhD Students Publications Majors &amp; Minors See how a MSCM degree can benefit you! MSCM Internship Program Want to gain “real world” work experience related to your academic studies? Look no further! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .