#http://www.memphis.edu/development/developmentglossary.php
Glossary of Terms - Development - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Development Donate Now Giving Options Inside the Office of Development Ways to Give Home Development Glossary of Terms Glossary of Terms The University of Memphis offers this glossary as a tool for visitors to the Advancement website. These terms are defined only as they may pertain to the University of Memphis and are not applicable in all situations. It is not a comprehensive dictionary of terms, nor do the terms listed cover all possible meanings or applications. Furthermore, it is recommended that donors first consult with their appropriate legal, financial and other advisors for any necessary counsel before making any gift or agreements with the University. Glossary Advancement – that division of the University of Memphis made up of Development , Advancement Services , Alumni and Constituent Relations , and the University of Memphis Foundation . Alumni – a graduate or former student of the University of Memphis. Academic Fund – The Academic Fund is the collection of gifts from alumni, parents, and friends that are given to the University of Memphis with no restrictions. These gifts are primarily used to assist with financial aid needs, classroom updates, technological improvements and betterment of the overall student experience. Annual Giving – The Annual Giving program exists to provide the University of Memphis with financial support for scholarships, special programs, research facility, technological upgrades, and other needs. The mission of the University of Memphis Annual Giving program is to build a strong core constituency of alumni, friends, and the University family who will provide consistent financial support to the University of Memphis and its programs. The Annual Giving program works to acquire, reactivate, and renew donors and gifts of $1 to $4,999. Appreciated assets – assets that have a higher market value than their basis or tax purpose value. Such assets would, if sold at a price higher than their basis, potentially generate a taxable capital gain. Such assets are often very good assets to use in making a tax-wise charitable gift. Basis – the tax purpose value of the property or asset used in establishing the potential capital gain amount. Beneficiary – the person and/or organization that receives the benefits (usually assets or income) of a will or trust. Beneficiary Designation - Clearly identifies how specific assets will be distributed after your death. Bequest – a gift of property or assets to a beneficiary as defined in a will. Cash gift – a gift made most often by check or credit card (rarely cash). Charitable Gift Annuity (CGA) – A charitable gift annuity is a way to make a gift to the University of Memphis and receive an income for the rest of your life. It is a contract under which the University, in return for a transfer of a minimum of $25,000 in cash or other property, agrees to pay you a fixed sum of money for a period measured by one or two lives. Codicil – a written change or amendment made to a will. Development – the organized activity of soliciting contributions to further the mission of the University of Memphis. Director of Development (Development Officer) – a staff member of the University charged with soliciting contributions at the University, typically for a particular college or program. Donor honor roll – a listing of those generous individuals and organizations who have provided support to the University of Memphis (unless anonymity was requested) Donor advised fund – a charitable giving vehicle administered by a third party, such as a community foundation, and created for the purpose of managing charitable donations on behalf of an organization, family, or individual. Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) – the use of telecommunications networks to transfer funds from a financial institution to the University of Memphis. Endowment – a fund or collection of funds that produces income for an organization. Endowments are valuable to the University because they create an ongoing source of income, enhance our stability and prestige, allow for program expansion and provide a measure of independence. Executor – the person or institution named in a person's will who carries out the terms of the will. Fiduciary – an individual, corporation or association holding assets for another party, often with the legal authority and duty to make decisions regarding financial matters on behalf of the other party. Foundation – the University of Memphis Foundation is a 501c3 organization established from donated funds for the purpose of providing support to the University of Memphis. Fund Agreement – the legal document by which your gifts are segregated for a specific purpose at the University of Memphis. Current Expendable Fund – a fund from which all monies may be drawn for current use, as opposed to an endowed fund from which only the earnings on the principal are typically used. Fund status report – an annual report provided to concerned parties which outlines activity in a fund of the University of Memphis. Gains/Losses, realized - Actual gain (or loss) that occurs when an asset, (who's price has change since it was purchased) is converted into cash at fair market value in an arm's length transaction. Gains/Losses, Unrealized - Paper profit (or loss) that does not become actual until the underlying asset is sold, redeemed, or otherwise disposed of. Honorarium – any gift, of any size, made to the University in recognition or in honor of an individual or other entity. In-Kind Gift – a charitable gift of goods or services rather than money. Matching Gifts – a charitable practice where an individual or organization pledges to give an equal amount of money to the University of Memphis, where the amount given is equal to the amount raised in individual gifts. Many companies encourage their employees to make charitable contributions by matching their philanthropic support. Memorial – any gift, of any size, made to the University in someone's memory. Non-degreed alumni – an individual who attended the University of Memphis, but did not receive a degree. Phonathon – The University of Memphis Phonathon is an important element to the Annual Giving Program in which student employees make telephone calls to alumni, parents and friends. The Phonathon works to acquire financial contributions in support of our University programs, scholarships, facilities, research and more. Planned giving – a term commonly used to describe a wide variety of giving vehicles that allow you to give to charity during your lifetime and/or after your death, while meeting your current income needs and providing for your heirs. Planned giving is typically done in conjunction with your overall financial, tax and estate planning, sometimes involves a professional advisor, and is a viable option for donors of all income levels. Pledge – a promise to make a gift to the University at a future time. Probate – the legal proceeding in which a court determines how an estate will be divided. Estate planning advisors often seek ways to reduce or eliminate assets from an estate such that they are not a part of probate proceedings. President's Society – the University of Memphis Annual Fund 's leadership society. President's Society members are among the most loyal and generous benefactors of the University. Donors to the President's Society make significant annual contributions to the academic areas on campus that they personally value. These gifts provide financial resources necessary to maintain excellence and implement innovations at the University of Memphis. The President's Society recognizes all donors who make a gift of $1,000 or more to any college, school, department, program, or other academic area at the University of Memphis during the fiscal year. Restricted gift – directed gifts (designated gifts) and contributions made to the University to be used in accordance with donor-created guidelines. Retained life estate – a gift plan allowing the donation of a personal residence (including a vacation home) or farm but allows you to retain the right to life enjoyment. A life estate may be retained for either one or more lives or a term of years. All routine expenses – maintenance fees, property taxes, repairs, etc. – remain your responsibility. However, you receive an income tax deduction for a significant portion of the value of the contributed property (since the property is irrevocably deeded to the charity) and estate tax benefits. Scholarship – financial aid awarded to a student. myMEMPHIS – the portal on the University of Memphis website through which the campus community can gain access to online services and information. Society of the Shield – that group of generous donors to the University of Memphis who have made cumulative gifts to the University of no less than $10,000. Trust – any arrangement where property is to be held and administered by a trustee for the benefit of those for whom the trust was created. Depending on the type and how it is established, a trust may be revocable (changeable) or irrevocable (not changeable). There are many types of trusts available to fit to various situations. Trust, charitable lead – an arrangement in which income from your property or investment is given to the University for a term of years, but the principal passes to other parties designated by you upon termination of the trust. Trust, charitable remainder annuity – a special type of Charitable Remainder Trust under which a beneficiary of your choosing (not the University) receives an annual fixed income. You are allowed an income tax deduction of the amount of the present value of the charity's remainder interest as of the date you contribute your assets to the trust. Trustee – and individual or organization which holds or manages and invests assets for the benefit of another. Unitrust, charitable remainder – a trust under which a beneficiary designated by you (not the University) receives a fixed percentage of the net fair market value of the trust on an annual basis. The annual income paid to the beneficiary must be either for life or for 20 or fewer years. Unrestricted gift - a gift made to the University to be used as needed. Will – the legal expression or declaration of your mind or wishes as to the disposition of your property, to be performed or take effect upon your death. Staff Directory Meet the Development Staff University of Memphis Foundation Learn about the University of Memphis Foundation Alumni Association Learn about the Alumni Association Glossary Click here for a Glossary of Terms Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .