#http://www.memphis.edu/lifeskills/personaldevelopment.php
Personal and Career Development - Student Athlete Development - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Student Athlete Development Academic Athletic Personal/Career Development Service / SAAC Contact Us Home Student Athlete Development Personal and Career Development Personal and Career Development Commitment to Personal Development A well-balanced lifestyle. Maximizing your potential in all areas, not just sports. With all that you juggle as a student-athlete, you might want some help with personal development along the way. Tiger PAWS offers a wide variety of opportunities that give your life balance—encouraging emotional well-being, personal growth and strong decision-making skills. Personal development activities include guest speakers, one-on-one sessions, seminars, and activities. We schedule events based on individual and team needs, as well as special activities planned by the PAWS Coordinator. Commitment to Career Development Tiger PAWS encourages the student-athlete to develop and pursue career and life goals. A large part of the PAWS Program focuses on career exploration, development, and networking. Career exploration begins the minute they step on the University of Memphis Campus. The PAWS Program encourages student-athletes their freshman year to begin thinking about their interests and skills and build on those qualities to guide the them through the following years as they explore their interests. From their freshman year to their senior year, student-athletes have the chance to participate in multiple career developing opportunities. By working with our own departments on campus as well as with the local community, the student-athletes are able to gain a better understanding of the different opportunities for their future. Integral parts of the Career Development are as follows, but not limited to: Major Exploration Leadership Development Job Sharing Career Panels Internships/Mentorships Career Course (UNIV 3740) Social &amp; Career Networking Events Career Fairs (Virtual and on Campus) UNIV 3740: Preparing to Become a Professional UNIV 3740 course explores various topics surrounding the development of personal and professional life skills. Topics included, but are not limited to, effective communication skills, interview skills, cover letter and resume preparation, proper business etiquette, financial planning, and the professional working environment. Students will have the opportunity to improve written and oral communication skills through class assignments. They will also have the opportunity to interact with professionals from campus and the Memphis community. The desired outcome of this course is for students to enhance personal life skills and leave prepared to successfully embark on their professional lives. This course is offered to junior and senior level student-athletes. If you have any questions or are interested in the course, please contact your athletic advisor or Cornell Sneed, PAWS Coordinator. CAAS Center for Athletic Advising Services AAC The Official Site of the American Athletic Conference NCAA National Collegiate Athletic Association GO Tigers GO Memphis Tigers Official Athletic Site Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .