#http://www.memphis.edu/history/gaaah/
Graduate Association for African-American History - Department of History - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of History Why History? Undergraduate Graduate Online Faculty HERC GAAAH Graduate Association for African-American History About Annual Graduate Conference News Archive Dissertations in African-American History Contacts Home Department of History GAAAH Graduate Association for African-American History The 17th Annual Graduate Student Conference in African American History will be held February 10-12, 2016, at the University of Memphis. To download the call for papers, please click here . To learn more about the Graduate Association for African-American History (GAAAH), please click here. Proposal Guidelines We invite graduate and undergraduate students at all levels to submit proposals. We welcome the submission of individual papers, complete sessions, workshops, and roundtables relating to the scholarship and teaching of the history of black people in the United States and throughout the African Diaspora. We hope to represent a broad range of disciplinary and methodological approaches. The individual paper proposals should include a 300-word abstract, including a paper title; author contact information; postal address and e-mail address; and brief curriculum vitae. The organizers of complete sessions should send, in a single submission, abstracts and CVs for each of the paper presenters; 200-word description of the session; and contact information for all participants. Please list audio-visual requirements, if any. Faculty members from the University of Memphis and other area institutions volunteer to serve as panel commentators and provide constructive feedback. Special Events This year's conference will feature a keynote address from Dr. Sylvia Diouf, an award-winning historian of the African Diaspora whose books include Slavery's Exiles: The Story of the American Maroons (2014) and Servants of Allah: African Muslims Enslaved in the Americas. The conference will also include a lunchtime lecture by Dr. Peniel Joseph, whose book Stokely: A Life won the 2014 National Book Award from the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change. Dr. Joseph is also the author of Waiting 'Til the Midnight Hour: A Narrative History of Black Power in America and Dark Days, Bright Nights: From Black Power to Barack Obama. GAAAH also plans to hold special panels on topics such as professional development and contemporary politics. Deadlines The submission deadline for proposals is December 21, 2015. Participants will be notified of acceptance by January 5, 2016. Completed 10-12 page papers must be received no later than January 30, 2016. Memphis State Eight Paper Prize Graduate papers submitted by January 15, 2016 will be evaluated by a faculty committee for the Memphis State Eight Paper Prize, which is awarded to the conference's best paper. The first place prize includes a monetary award. Second and third place papers will also receive recognition. Contact Information Please submit all proposals by e-mail to GAAAH President Rebekkah Mulholland: gaaah.memphis@gmail.com For questions please email Rebekkah or contact GAAAH faculty adviser Dr. W. Chris Johnson w.johnson@memphis.edu Please see our Facebook page for updates Graduate Association for African-American History About Annual Graduate Conference News Archive Dissertations in African-American History Contacts History Happenings The department reports, as they occur, significant happenings that involve our faculty, students, staff, and alumni. Newsletter The department newsletter is filled with interesting articles and information about our award-winning faculty and students. Event Calendar Plan to attend events of historical interest. Contact Us Contact the Department of History at The University of Memphis. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .