#http://www.memphis.edu/workforce/checks.php
Background Checks FAQs - Workforce Management - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Workforce Management Staff Directory Pay Bands Background Check FLSA Links Human Resources Home Workforce Management Background Checks FAQs Background Checks FAQs What kinds of background checks will be conducted? Will credit checks be done? At this time, only criminal history will be routinely checked, and there is no plan to conduct credit checks for any jobs. If required for the job, we will also check for valid drivers licenses. Why do criminal background checks? This is a safety issue. Hiring someone with a history of drug dealing, acts of violence, theft, and sex offenses risks creating a threat to the safety of our students, faculty, and staff. For what types of jobs/employees will criminal background checks be conducted? Newly-hired regular full-time and part-time administrative/professional, faculty, clerical/support, and temporary staff members are subject to criminal background checks. When did you start checking criminal backgrounds for faculty? New faculty who join The University of Memphis for Fall 2004 will be subject to the same criminal background checks as are staff members. The categories of new faculty that will be checked are (a) tenure track faculty; (b) clinical faculty; and (c) instructors who are on one-year appointments that are renewable for another two years. Will having to conduct a background check on the recommended applicant slow down the hiring process? Applicants may be hired "subject to" a satisfactory background check, and that clause would be written into their employment agreement. New hires would be able to start before the report is returned to us, but would be subject to release if unacceptable criminal background were found or if they falsified their application about their history. What other TBR schools are doing background checks? Austin Peay, Tennessee Tech, and Nashville State Tech. Other schools are considering it, notably Middle Tennessee State. What is the cost and how will it be budgeted? The cost is reasonable. There will be a variance of cost per applicant depending upon the counties that will be searched due to prior residences. HR will pay for one applicant's background check per job; if the department wants two or three finalists checked, they must incur the additional costs. The Fair Credit Reporting Act Disclosure and Authorization Form implies we will be checking credit, character, and general reputation, and I don't like that. Why don't we take that part out if we're not doing any checks except for criminal history? The attorneys at TBR insist that the language remain as written in their policy and forms. Do you conduct background checks on student workers? Background checks are only conducted on student workers if they are hired into one of the positions listed above. To obtain a comprehensive list of other positions for student workers requiring background checks, e-mail Workforce Management . WorkforUM Job announcements for the University of Memphis University Org Charts Organizational charts on demand for University departments Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .