#http://www.memphis.edu/mediaroom/releases/apr15/new-director-music-school.php
John Chiego Appointed New Director of Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music - Media Room - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UofM Media Room Publications Resources This Week UofM Magazine News Releases Contact News Releases Latest News Releases October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 News Releases Archive 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Home Media Room News Releases John Chiego Appointed New Director of Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music John Chiego Appointed New Director of Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Contact: Gabrielle Maxey 901.678.2843 gmaxey@memphis.edu April 30, 2015 - John Chiego has been appointed director of the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music at the University of Memphis. Chiego, who joined the UofM faculty in 1979, is a professor of double bass. He has been an active performer his entire career serving in positions such as principal bass of the Nashville Chamber Orchestra and bassist for the Orpheum Theatre Orchestra, playing for touring Broadway shows. He was the longtime principal bass of the Memphis Symphony Orchestra and has served on the faculties of the Hot Springs Music Festival, Brevard Music Center, Allegheny Summer Music Festival, Blue Lake Fine Arts Camp and the Tennessee Governor's School for the Arts before joining the faculty of the National Music Festival. "I'm thrilled that Professor Chiego has accepted our offer to lead the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music," said UofM President M. David Rudd. "We have great confidence in his ability to lead the school in the coming years, build on a solid foundation and achieve national and international recognition for a remarkably talented group of faculty and students. The Scheidt School of Music is one of the true gems at the University of Memphis." UofM Provost Karen Weddle-West said, "I am tremendously impressed with John Chiego's knowledge and understanding of the budget model, strategies to maximize resources during the SRI (Strategic Resources Investment) transition, his awareness of and appreciation for the University's culture, and his vision to enhance the national and international recognition of the high-quality scholarly/creative productivity among the faculty and students in the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music. His leadership will be an asset to the College of Communication and Fine Arts and the larger community." Chiego has been an artist-in-residence at the Bay View Chamber Music Festival and toured with such artists as Amy Grant and Vince Gill. He has traveled extensively throughout the U.S., Canada and Europe, with featured solo recitals at the Edinburgh International Double Bass Festival and the International Society of Bassists worldwide convention. He is the author of The Musical Experience, a popular textbook for introductory music courses used by colleges and universities across the country. "As the new director of the School of Music, it will be my privilege to work alongside an extraordinary faculty and help bring well-deserved recognition to the already world-class work they and their students do every day in the school and in the community," Chiego said. "I invite music lovers of every type to join us at any of the more than 250 concerts we present each year to hear for themselves the quality of our students as they prepare to become the next generation of performers and music educators." News Releases Latest News Releases October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 News Releases Archive 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Music Performance Calendar Find out where the music is Art Museum Learn about the latest exhibits Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/2/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .