#http://www.memphis.edu/cepr/research/crer.php
CRER - CEPR - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Counseling, Educational Psychology &amp; Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Ed Psych &amp; Research Faculty Research Home CEPR Research CRER Center for Rehabilitation and Employment Research The Center for Rehabilitation and Employment Research conducts research, educates and trains, and provides employment, career, and rehabilitation services geared towards enhancing the employment and career development opportunities for groups of individuals that have been chronically unemployed and under-employed. These individuals include persons with physical, mental, and/or emotional disabilities, minorities, women, recipients of financial assistance, and individuals who are living in poverty. The Center’s interdisciplinary research approach focuses on how social, psychological, organizational, cultural, economic, and medical factors impact the employment and career development of the groups identified above. In addition to research, the Center provides employment and career development services to individuals in the Memphis area who are chronically under-employed or unemployed. 113 Patterson Hall Memphis, TN 38152 901.678.2731 (P) 901.678.3215 (F) Services Provided The Center offers a broad array of services including career counseling, career and vocational assessment, job readiness preparation, job placement services, and assistive technology assessment and training. All services are confidential and are consistent with guidelines and ethical standards of the American Psychological Association and American Counseling Association, and the Commission on Rehabilitation Counselor Certification. Accommodations are available for persons with disabilities. Please see our Services link for detailed information on the services we provide; see our Contact Us link to see where we are located and for information on how to reach us. Funding The Center receives funding from the following agencies and organizations. See our Related Links page for further information about these organizations. The Tennessee Department of Human Services: Division of Rehabilitation Services The Tennessee Technology Access Project Staff Dr. Daniel Lustig , Ph.D, CRC, is the Director for the Center for Rehabilitation and Employment Research, as well as Professor in the Department of Counseling, Educational Psychology and Research at The University of Memphis. Prior to his current employment he taught at Auburn University in the Department of Rehabilitation and Special Education, worked as a Vocational Rehabilitation Specialist with the Veterans Administration, and as a vocational evaluator with the State of Nebraska Vocational Rehabilitation and the Milwaukee Center for Independence. Dr. Lustig is a Certified Rehabilitation Counselor and continues to provide vocational expertise in a consulting capacity to several local and federal agencies. Dr. Lustig has published over fifty articles related to topics in rehabilitation counseling. Dr. Stephan Zanskas , Ph.D., CRC, is the Co-Director the Center for Rehabilitation and Employment Research, as well as Associate Professor in the Department of Counseling, Educational Psychology and Research at The University of Memphis. He earned his Ph.D. in Rehabilitation Counselor Education from Michigan State University. He is a Licensed Professional Counselor in Michigan and Wisconsin and a nationally Certified Rehabilitation Counselor. Dr. Zanskas has extensive experience as a rehabilitation counselor in private for profit, non-profit, and public employment settings. He has held employment as a work adjustment specialist, vocational evaluator, job placement specialist, hospital based rehabilitation counselor, chemical dependency counselor, therapist, vocational rehabilitation counselor, clinical supervisor and administrator. His research interests include psychosocial adjustment to disability, disability management, ethics, and professional issues. Dr. Lavonnie Perry Claybon , Ph.D. is the Director of the Mid-South Access Center for Technology, where she is responsible for implementing, coordinating, and evaluating a comprehensive Assistive Technology Program that provides services to individuals of all ages with disabilities. For over 27 years, Dr. Perry Claybon has worked as an expert in the fields of education, human development, budgetary management, assistive technology, and professional development and training. She has presented at local and national conferences in her various fields of experience. Her publications include an article on diversity and an interview published in the HR Executive Magazine. Aside from her work in human resources, assistive technology, and human development and job training, Dr. Perry Claybon has taught land-based classroom and online classes with focal points on education technology, teacher education, research, and learning disabilities for the University of Memphis, George Washington University, and Drexel University. Rehabilitation Assistive Technology Specialist Mary Washington , M.A. CCC-SLP, is a speech-language pathologist with over 25 years of experience in various settings, including public schools, hospitals, clinics, and early intervention. She has experience with both children and adults with various speech/language disorders, including oral motor disorders, mealtime/feeding, severe speech impairments, non-verbal disorders, autism, and verbal apraxia of speech. She worked with children with a variety of disabilities (including cerebral palsy, traumatic brain injury, and stroke) at the Shrine School. Her primary interests are early language development, augmentative communication, assistive technology, and apraxia of speech. Ms. Washington retired from Memphis City Schools, where she served as chairperson of the Assistive Technology Team. She was published several articles and presented at regional and national conferences. She maintains a professional membership in the American-Speech-Language Hearing Association and the Special Interest Division 12, Augmentative-Alternative Communication. Ms. Washington earned her Bachelor of Science Education and Master of Arts in Speech-Language Pathology from the University of Memphis. Services Career and Vocational Testing The Center offers comprehensive career and vocational testing that facilitates individual career development. The test results provide individuals and referral sources with comprehensive information useful in the career development process. Trained counselors conduct career and vocational testing. Individuals are actively involved in developing assessment plans tailored to meet their specific needs. Areas assessed may include aptitude, achievement, interest, and career decision-making. Employment Services The Center offers employment services to individuals who receive Social Security Disability Income (SSDI) through our Employment Network. SSDI beneficiaries receive individualized assistance through the following strategies: (a) vocational counseling to determine appropriate job possibilities, (b) job seeking skill training, (c) resume development, and (d) assistance finding and keeping a job. Brief Intervention at UT Trauma Center Center faculty and a team of graduate students are actively involved in research as well as providing assessment and brief intervention services to the general trauma patients at The Regional Medical Trauma Center in Memphis, TN. Dr.'s Lustig and Zanskas hold Allied Health Staff privileges at the hospital. Current research studies include a focus on patient characteristics, resilience, recidivism, and a comparison of the effectiveness of assessment instruments used with the general trauma population. Links American Counseling Association (ACA) American Psychological Association (APA) American Rehabilitation Counseling Association Americans with Disabilities Chi Sigma Iota International Honor Society for students, professional counselors and counselor educators. Community Resource Directory - Service agency and support group information - contact details for Memphis and surrounding areas. Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP) Council on Rehabilitation Education (CORE) Memphis Center for Independent Living National Board for Certfied Counselors, Inc. (NBCC) Mid-South Access Center for Technology National Clearinghouse of Rehabilitation Counseling Materials National Council on Rehabilitation Education The National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research (NIDRR) National Rehabilitation Counseling Association Sign Language Tennessee Department of Human Services Division of Rehabilitation Services Veterans Assistance Workers Compensation Admissions Current Students Student Organizations Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/10/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .