#http://www.memphis.edu/history/atozlist.php
A to Z List - Department of History - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of History Why History? Undergraduate Graduate Online Faculty HERC GAAAH Home Department of History A to Z List A to Z List — Department of History A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z A Academic integrity Advice to students about plagiarism and using sources Department of History policy about academic misconduct Adjunct faculty Admission requirements M.A. program Ph.D. program Advising M.A. students Online B.A. program students Ph.D. students Undergraduate students African-American History, Conference in (pdf) African-American History and Southern History, focus area in African-American History, Graduate Association for Alumni placement Assistants, teaching and graduate Assistantships, graduate B Baker, Bob, Scholarship Belle McWilliams Lecture Series Belle McWilliams Scholarship Best History Teaching Assistant Award Best Thesis and Best Dissertation Awards Biographical information about faculty members, index of Bob Baker Scholarship Bylaws of the Department of History (pdf) C Calendar of events Center, History Educational Resource Cheating — see Academic integrity College-Level Examination Program (CLEP) Comprehensive examination M.A. program Ph.D. program Computing resources Conduct, standards of professional Contact information (departmental addresses, telephone numbers, e-mail addresses) Course levels, undergraduate, table of (pdf) Credit by examination — see College-Level Examination Program (CLEP) Credits, previously earned, Ph.D. program D Degree requirements Departmental requirements and restrictions for M.A. degree Departmental requirements and restrictions for Ph.D. degree Graduate School requirements for M.A. or Ph.D. in History University requirements for B.A. in History Departmental calendar of events Dishonesty, academic — see Academic integrity Dissertation fellowships Dissertation requirements, Ph.D. program Dissertation Research Grant Dissertations in history, recent Doctoral program — see Ph.D. program E Egyptology Department of History graduate program in Egyptology Interdisciplinary program, focus area in Egyptology E-mail, information about Emeriti faculty Employment as a historian Enrollment in a graduate class, how to request a permit for (pdf) Enrollment in an undergraduate class, how to request a permit for (pdf) Epsilon Nu chapter of Phi Alpha Theta European History, focus area in (Modern European History) Events, calendar of Examination, credit by — see College-Level Examination Program (CLEP) F Facebook, departmental page on Faculty Adjunct Emeriti Full-time Information for Teaching assistants Family history, focus area in (women, gender, and family history) Fellowships, graduate Fields of study, Ph.D. program Financial aid (departmental) Graduate Undergraduate African-American History and Southern History Egyptology Global History Modern European History Women, Gender, and Family History Foreign language requirement, Ph.D. program Forms and applications Undergraduate Graduate Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for future students Future undergraduate students Future graduate students G Gender, focus area in (women, gender, and family history) Gillaspie, William R. and Helen Lucille, Scholarship Grades M.A. program Ph.D. program Graduate assistants Graduate Association for African-American History Graduate fellowships Graduate History Association Graduate program — see M.A. program or Ph.D. program Graduate students in History, guide for Graduate students, information for Guide for Graduate Students in History Guidelines for tenure and promotion, departmental (pdf) H Happenings (news about the department) HERC — see History Educational Resource Center Historian, employment as a Historians, standards of professional conduct for Historical resources, local Historical writing, tutoring in, by the History Educational Resource Center History and history-related resources online History Day — see West Tennessee History Day History, Department of (home page) History Educational Resource Center History happenings (news about the department) Honors Program in History Honors contract, guidelines for (pdf) Honors thesis, guidelines for (pdf) Hypostyle Hall Project at Karnak I Integrity, academic — see Academic integrity Internship for undergraduates J Janann Sherman Undergraduate Award for the Study of Women’s History K Karnak Hypostyle Hall Project Kell F. Mitchell Memorial Undergraduate Scholarship L Laboratories, computer Lecture series Library resources for historical research Local historical resources M M.A. program Advising Application Comprehensive examination Grades Nature of course offerings Overview of the program Planning form (MS Word) Preparing to graduate Requirements and restrictions The program Thesis Time limitation Major L. Wilson Graduate Paper Prize Major L. Wilson Undergraduate Paper Prize McWilliams, Belle, Lecture Series McWilliams, Belle, Scholarship Memphis Sesquicentennial Lecture Series Mini-catalogs Undergraduate Graduate Misconduct, academic — see Academic integrity Mission statement Mitchell, Kell F., Memorial Undergraduate Scholarship Modern European History, focus area in Museum Studies, interdisciplinary program in N News about the department Newsletter O Online Bachelor of Arts in History program Online Master of Arts in History program P Part-time faculty Permit for enrollment in a graduate class, how to request a (pdf) Permit for enrollment in an undergraduate class, how to request a (pdf) Phi Alpha Theta, Epsilon Nu chapter Ph.D. program Advising Advisory Committee approval form for registration (MS Word) Application Comprehensive examination Dissertation Dissertation Committee approval form for registration (MS Word) Fields of study Foreign language requirement Grades Nature of course offerings Overview of the program Planning form (MS Word) Previously earned credits Prospectus Reading lists for Ph.D. comprehensive examination fields Requirements and restrictions Placement, alumni The program Time limitation Transfer of credit Plagiarism — see Academic integrity Planning forms M.A. degree (MS Word) Ph.D. degree (MS Word) Professional conduct for historians, standards of Prospectus for dissertation Q [No entries for the letter Q] R Recent dissertations in history Recent happenings (news about the department) Registration approval forms for Ph.D. students Advisory Committee approval form for registration (MS Word) Dissertation Committee approval form for registration (MS Word) Request a permit for enrollment in a graduate class, how to (pdf) Request a permit for enrollment in an undergraduate class, how to (pdf) Requirements for degrees in History — see Degree requirements Requirements for tenure and promotion in the Department of History — see Tenure and promotion guidelines, departmental Resources, historical Resources, historical, local Ruth and Harry Woodbury Fellowship in Southern History S Scholarships, undergraduate Search the pages of the Department of History site Sesquicentennial, Memphis, Lecture Series Sherman, Janann, Undergraduate Award for the Study of Women's History Smart carts Smart classrooms Southern history, focus area in (African American History and Southern History) Standards of professional conduct for historians Student organizations Graduate Association for African American History Graduate History Association Phi Alpha Theta (Epsilon Nu chapter) T T&amp;P — see Tenure and promotion guidelines, departmental T and P — see Tenure and promotion guidelines, departmental Teaching assistants Tennessee History Day Tenure and promotion guidelines, departmental (pdf) The HERC — see History Educational Resource Center Thesis, M.A. program Time limitation M.A. program Ph.D. program Timetable M.A. program Ph.D. program Tutoring in historical writing by the History Educational Resource Center Twitter, departmental page on U Undergraduate students, information for V Video carts W West Tennessee History Day Why study history? William R. and Helen Lucille Gillaspie Scholarship Wilson, Major L., Graduate Paper Prize Wilson, Major L., Undergraduate Paper Prize Wireless computing, information about Women, gender, and family history, focus area in Women’s History, Janann Sherman Award for the Study of Woodbury, Ruth and Harry, Fellowship in Southern History Writing, tutoring in, by the History Educational Resource Center X [No entries for the letter X] Y [No entries for the letter Y] Z [No entries for the letter Z] History Happenings The department reports, as they occur, significant happenings that involve our faculty, students, staff, and alumni. Newsletter The department newsletter is filled with interesting articles and information about our award-winning faculty and students. Event Calendar Plan to attend events of historical interest. Contact Us Contact the Department of History at The University of Memphis. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .