#http://www.memphis.edu/accounting/yearend.php
Year-End Information - Accounting - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Accounting Staff Directory Areas Travel Systems Info Effort Certification Links Home Accounting Year-End Information Year-End Information As we approach June 30th, the end of FY 2015, the Accounting Office is reminding financial managers, administrative officials, department heads, and directors of accounts to carefully review your financial activity and submit corrections to the Accounting Office as soon as possible. Remember that you may monitor your account activity by accessing Banner Self-Service or INB. This allows you to review current activity within your account and eliminates the need to wait for e~Print reports. SIGNIFICANT DEADLINES: Activity Deadline Process FY15 Purchase Requisitions that require bidding ($10,000 or more) Wednesday, April 15, 2015 Process FY16 Purchase Requisitions that require bidding ($10,000 or more) with July 1, 2015 contract start date April 15, 2015 - May 5, 2015 Process FY16 Purchase Requisitions that do NOT require bidding Beginning Monday, May 6, 2015 Book Airfare Reservation via Travelennium for Travel in FY 2015 Monday, June 8, 2015 Process FY15 Purchase Requisitions that do NOT require bidding Tuesday, June 23, 2015 Cancel, Adjust, Deobligate Remaining Balances on FY15 Requisitions Wednesday, June 24, 2015 Complete Staples Purchase Orders Thursday, June 25, 2015 Settle Travel Advances for FY 2015 Friday, June 26, 2015 Submit Claims for Petty Cash Reimbursement Friday, June 26, 2015 Time Sheet for BW13 Biweekly Payroll (June 13-June 26) - EARLY! Thursday, June 25, 2015 Online Budget Revisions between Account Pools Friday, June 26, 2015 Submit Invoices and Travel Claim Reimbursements to Accounting Thursday, July 2, 2015 Submit Transfer Vouchers to Accounting Monday, July 6, 2015 ACTION ITEMS: June 30, 2015 Preliminary Year-End Reports On Thursday, July 2, 2015, preliminary year-end June reports will be available via e-print. Please review these reports and submit notification of corrections to the Accounting Office by Monday, July 6, 2015. The account activity is also available online at any time through Banner. June 2015 final reports will not be available until mid-October 2015. Obligations Please review your accounts for Contracts, Purchase Orders and Travel Purchase Orders using the FPIOPOF screen in Banner INB or SSB Encumbrance Query to determine which open purchase orders are valid and which ones need to be carried forward into FY 2016. Please note that this review should be done throughout the year as well as at year-end. Invoices Ensure all purchases received by Tuesday, June 30, 2015, are receipted in Tigerbuy by June 30th. If invoices are sent directly to your department, please deliver them to the Accounting Office by the Thursday, July 2nd deadline. Outstanding purchase order goods and services not received by June 30, 2015 will be charged against FY 2016 funds. Purchases received by June 30th that were made outside of the Tigerbuy system should be reported to General Accounting at accounting@memphis.edu by July 6th, whether or not an invoice has been received. Staples Purchases Orders submitted by June 25th to be delivered by June 30th will be charged to FY 2015. Orders delivered after June 30th will be charged to FY 2016. Travel Purchase Orders Deobligate/Close POs by e-mailing accounting@memphis.edu . Submit outstanding FY 2015 travel claims to the Accounting Office by Thursday, July 2, 2015. Travel that begins on or before June 30, 2015 and ends in July will be charged to FY 2016. Please submit all future year travel purchase order (FY 2016) requests to the Accounting Office using the Request for Future Year Travel Authorization available at: . QUESTIONS? Should you require additional information, please contact the Accounting Office at 2271 or by email at accounting@memphis.edu . PROCUREMENT DEADLINES Below are the deadlines for current year (FY15) and future year (FY16) requisitions. Please contact Procurement and Contract Services staff at x2265 if we can assist with your purchases. For your convenience, Tigerbuy Training may be scheduled through Learning Curve for anyone needing new or refresher training. Thank you for your support with year-end processes. Deadlines for Current Year (FY2015) Purchase Requisitions April 15, 2015: FY15 requisitions that require bidding (greater than or equal to $10k) and award of contract before July 1. Notes: 1) All contracts that require a signed University-approved agreement, regardless of the dollar or bid thresholds must be submitted to Procurement and Contract Services for approval prior to the contract start date. 2) Any purchases/contracts requiring TBR approval (greater than or equal to $250k) must be completed and submitted to TBR by June 1, 2015, if the effective contract start date is July 1, 2015. 3) Any purchases/contracts requiring Fiscal Review approval (greater than or equal to $250k, sole source, and a term of more than 1 year) must be submitted to TBR 75 days in advance of the start date. June 23, 2015: FY15 requisitions that do not require bidding. Emergencies will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. Reminder: For purchases initiated in the current year (FY15), accrued expenses will be processed as follows: If goods/services are received on or before June 30, 2015, the expense will be posted in FY15 If goods/services are received after June 30, 2015, the expense will be posted in FY16 June 24, 2015: Cancel, adjust or deobligate remaining balances on FY15 purchase orders. Review open purchase orders and enter a Change Order Request form in Tigerbuy to cancel, adjust or deobligate purchase orders. Deadlines for Future Year (FY2016) Purchase Requisitions April 15-May 5, 2015: FY16 requisitions (greater than or equal to $10k) that require bidding with an effective contract start date of July 1, 2015, to allow sufficient time for the bid process. Note: All contracts that require a signed University-approved agreement, regardless of the dollar or bid thresholds must be submitted to Procurement and Contract Services for approval prior to the contract start date. May 6, 2015 or after: FY16 requisitions that do not require bidding with an effective contract start date of July 1 may be entered any time on or after May 6, 2015; however, resulting purchase orders will not be released and sent to the vendor until the start of the new fiscal year (on or around July 1, 2015). If a vendor requires early notification that a purchase order is forthcoming on July 1, advise Procurement &amp; Contract Services so that a Letter of Intent can be sent to the vendor. The following process applies to entering future year (FY16) purchase requisitions mentioned above: Access Tigerbuy e-Procurement System From April 15-June 30, under the “Billing Options” section, change “Accounting Date” to July 1, 2015. On July 1, allow system to default to “no value.” Notice will be posted on the Tigerbuy Message Board and via email to active users indicating that the Accounting Date field can default to “no value.” July 1, 2015 or after: All other FY16 requisitions Note: Pursuant to accounting and auditing standards, requisitions for maintenance, service, &amp; license agreements must be charged to the year in which they are effective. Example: If a software license agreement is effective July 1, 2015 to June 30, 2016, the requisition must be entered and charged to FY16. Finance Program Guide Your online resource for all things related to the Banner Finance system Year-End Information Important dates and deadlines for year-end Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the U of M Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .