#http://www.memphis.edu/bitm/faculty/robinposton.php
Robin Poston - BIT - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Business Information and Technology Welcome About Admissions Programs Courses Faculty Research FCBE Faculty Lloyd Brooks Judith Brown Jasbir Dhaliwal Mark Gillenson Wade M Jackson Brian Janz Bill Kettinger Naveen Kumar Richard Kumi Euntae "Ted" Lee Jong Seok Lee Robin Poston Sandra Richardson Margaret Schultz Judith Simon Thomas Stafford Chen Zhang Home BIT Faculty Robin Poston Robin Poston Associate Professor and Interim Chair, DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS INFORMATION AND TECHNOLOGY Phone (901) 678-5739 Email rposton@memphis.edu Fax (901) 678-4151 Office 300 Fogelman Administration Building Office Hours By Appointment About Robin Poston Dr. Poston serves as Interim Chair of the Department of Business Information and Technology and is an Associate Professor of Business Information and Technology at the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics at The University of Memphis. She is a Systems Testing Research Fellow and Director of the System Testing Excellence Program for the FedEx Institute of Technology at The University of Memphis. Dr. Poston is a recipient of the 2006-2007 University of Memphis Alumni Association Distinguished Teaching Award. She serves as an Associate Editor for the highly ranked Decision Sciences Journal, which publishes scholarly research that advances decision making. She also serves as an Associate Editor for another highly ranked journal, the European Journal of Information Systems, which publishes research about the theory and practice of information systems for a global audience. She also serves as the Organizing Chair for the International Research Workshop on Advances and Innovations in Software Testing. Formerly, she held the position of Vice-Chair for Sponsorship for the Special Interest Group on Human Computer Interaction. Dr. Poston's research focuses on understanding how individuals use credibility information in decision support systems, web-based knowledge management applications, recommender and feedback systems, internet-based dissemination of information, and system testing management. Her research uses experimental laboratory techniques in a simulated on-line information environment and qualitative interview methods. She has published articles in publications such as Management Information Systems Quarterly, Decision Sciences Journal, Communications of the ACM, IEEE Computer, Information Systems Management, Journal of Organizational and End User Computing, International Journal of Electronic Business, Journal of Information Systems, International Journal of Accounting Information Systems, and in major international conference proceedings. Dr. Poston has over 10 years of experience in the information systems field working for KPMG Consulting, Educational Computer Corporation, Meta Group Research, and Convergys, as well as consulting with several Fortune 500 companies and government agencies. Today, she works with local organizations, such as FedEx Corporation, First Horizons, St. Jude/ALSAC, Pinnacle Airlines, Rhodes College, and the University of Memphis IT Division to conduct projects and educational programs. Dr. Poston received her bachelor's degree in Computer Science from The University of Pennsylvania (1987), master's degree in Accounting from The University of Central Florida (1992), and Ph.D. in Management Information Systems from Michigan State University (2003). Education Doctor of Philosophy, Michigan State University Master of Science, The University of Central Florida Bachelor of Science, The University of Pennsylvania Interests Teaching Interests Project Management; Systems Analysis and Design; Advanced Systems Analysis and Design; Information Systems Global Enterprise; Executive MBA International Residency Research Interests Decision Support Systems; Web-Based Knowledge Management Applications; Recommender and Feedback Systems; Internet-Based Dissemination of Information; System Testing Management Selected Research Hu, T., Kettinger, W.J. and Poston, R.S. 2015. "The Effect of Online Social Value on Satisfaction and Continued Use of Social Media," European Journal of Information Systems (24:4), pp. 391-410. Abstract Poston, R. S. and Dhaliwal, J. 2015. "IS Human Capital: Assessing Gaps to Strengthen Skill and Competency Sourcing," Communications of the Association for Information Systems, (36:1), pp. 669-695. Abstract Poston, R., Patel, J., and Dhaliwal, J., "Monitoring for Testing Throughout the Development Lifecycle," Journal of Information Technology Management, 25(3), 2014, 31-40. Akbulut, A., Looney, C. and Poston, R.S. "Personalization Systems for Decisions Involving Risk: The Interactive Effects of User Personality and Suggestive Guidance," Journal of Information Technology Management, 2013, (24:4), pp. 34-50, (B, Discipline). Stout, T., Poston, R., and Dhaliwal, J. "Preparing the T&amp;E Workforce for the Speed of Need," International Testing and Evaluation Journal, 2012, (33:4), pp. 324-326. Hu, T., Poston, R., and Kettinger, W. "Non-adopters of Online Social Network Services: Is It Easy to Have Fun Yet?" Communications of the Association for Information Systems, 2011, (29:25), pp. 441-458. Abstract Jain, R., Poston, R.S., and Simon, J.C. "An Empirical Investigation of Client Managers' Responsibilities in Managing Offshore Outsourcing of Software Testing Projects," IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, 2011, (58:4), pp. 743-757. Abstract Dhaliwal, J., Onita, C., Poston, R.S., and Zhang, X. "Alignment within the Software Developmen Unit: Assessing Structural &amp; Relational Dimensions between Developers and Testers," Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 2011, (20:4), pp. 323-342. Abstract Jain, R.P., Simon, J.C., and Poston, R. 2011. "Mitigating Vendor Silence in Offshore Outsourcing: An Empirical Investigation," Journal of Management Information Systems (27:4), pp. 261-298. Abstract Poston, R.S., Simon, J.C., and Jain, R. "Client Communication Practices in Managing Relationships with Offshore Vendors of Software Testing Services," Communications of the Association for Information Systems, 2010, (27:9), pp. 129-148, Available at: Stafford, T. and Poston, R. S. 2010. "Online Security Threats and User Intentions: A Model of Computer Protection Motivation," IEEE Computer (43:1), pp. 58-64. Abstract Poston, R. S., Kettinger, W. J. and Simon, J. C. 2009. "Managing the Vendor Set: Achieving Best Pricing and Quality Service in IT Outsourcing," MIS Quarterly Executive (8:2), pp. 45-58. Abstract Looney, C., Akbulut, A., and Poston, R. S. 2008. "Understanding the Determinants of Service Channel Preference in the Early Stages of Adoption: A Social Cognitive Perspective on Online Brokerage Services," Decision Sciences Journal (39:4), pp. 821-857. Abstract Poston, R. S. 2008. "Using and Fixing Biased Rating Schemes," Communications of the ACM (51:9), pp. 105-109. Stafford, T. F., Poston, R. S., and Hennington A. 2005. "Spyware: The View from the [Online] Street," Communications of the ACM (48:8), pp. 96-99. Poston, R.S., Spier, C. 2005. "Effective Use of Knowledge Management Systems: A Process Model of Content Ratings and Credibility Indicators," MIS Quarterly (29:2), pp. 221-244. Abstract David, J., Dunn, C., McCarthy, W., and Poston, R.S. "The Research Pyramid: A Framework for Accounting Information Systems Research," Journal of Information Systems, Spring 1999, pp. 7-30. For a more comprehensive list of Dr. Poston's publications click here Faculty Lloyd Brooks Judith Brown Jasbir Dhaliwal Mark Gillenson Wade M Jackson Brian Janz Bill Kettinger Naveen Kumar Richard Kumi Euntae "Ted" Lee Jong Seok Lee Robin Poston Sandra Richardson Margaret Schultz Judith Simon Thomas Stafford Chen Zhang BIT News Publications, recognitions and spotlights about faculty and students of the BIT department. BIT Events Find out what's happening at the department and visit our weekly colloquium. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/23/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .