#http://www.memphis.edu/univcoll/graduate/mps_td.php
Training and Development - University College - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University College About Undergraduate Graduate Resources Online Graduate Master of Arts in Liberal Studies Master of Professional Studies Certificate in Liberal Studies Home University College Graduate Training and Development Training and Development The Master of Professional Studies degree with a concentration in Training and Development prepares individuals to excel in today's rapidly changing professional environment. Students seeking an MPS in Training and Development will gain the skills to discuss, assess, and apply leadership theories and concepts; analyze, use, and report data for organizational assessment decision-making and program evaluation; apply instructional design theories and concepts; understand and assess e-learning technologies; and manage the design and implementation of instructional and training materials. This graduate professional studies degree consists of 33 hours of interdisciplinary coursework in the areas of distance learning in online, compressed video, computer-based training, and on-site training. Program Requirements Students enrolled in the MPS degree will complete 9 credit hours of core courses; 21 credit hours in the concentration; and 3 credit hours in the culminating project for a total of 33 credit hours. A. Core Courses: The MPS Core is required of all students, and consists of the following three courses. PRST 7100 Professional Environment: Issues and Ethics 3 credits PRST 7200 Globalization and the Professions 3 credits PRST 7300 Research Methods 3 credits B. Concentration Requirements: Students will complete the following five courses. (15 credit hours) PRST 7770 OR PRST 7600 Computer-Based Decision Modeling (Prerequisite: PRST 7300 ) OR Statistical Analysis 3 credits PRST 7410 Evaluation of Learning (Prerequisites: PRST 7600 or PRST 7770 and PRST 7400 ) 3 credits PRST 7420 Organizational Needs Analysis 3 credits PRST 7400 Instructional Design for Training and Development 3 credits PRST 7470 Facilitation of Learning 3 credits Specialization Options: Students will complete two of the following seven courses. (6 credit hours) PRST 7430 Advanced Instructional Design for Training and Development 3 credits PRST 7105 Project Planning and Scheduling 3 credits PRST 7040 Human Resources Management 3 credits PRST 7440 Engaging the Adult Online Learner (Prerequisite: PRST 7430 ) 3 credits PRST 7450 Computer-Based Technologies for E-Training (Prerequisite: PRST 7400 ) 3 credits PRST 7910 Employer and Human Resources Law (Prerequisite: PRST 7040 ) 3 credits PRST 7920 Diversity in the Workplace 3 credits C. Professional Project: The Master of Professional Studies program requires every student to complete a professional project as the culminating experience in earning the degree. (3 credit hours) PRST 7998 *Professional Project 3 credits *A professional project proposal must be submitted to and approved by the Graduate Studies Coordinator before the PRST 7998 permit will be issued. Additional Information Advising Appointment Request Permit Financial Aid Graduate Assistantship Contact Us Graduate Master of Arts in Liberal Studies Master of Professional Studies Certificate in Liberal Studies Request More Information Complete our online form for additional degree information. Online Appointments Academic Advising is available in-person, by phone and web conference. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .