#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/mapping-civil-rights/about-project.php
About the Mapping Civil Rights History Project - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections Mapping Civil Rights Mapping Civil Rights History Early Memphis Civil War and Reconstruction Early Twentieth Century Memphis The Crump Era Memphis and World War II The Civil Rights Era Begins in Memphis Desegregation of Memphis City Schools 1968, The Sanitation Workers and Dr. King Memphis in the 1970s and 1980s Memphis Today About the Mapping Civil Rights History Project Interactive Map Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks Mapping Civil Rights About the Mapping Civil Rights History Project About the Mapping Civil Rights History Project The origins of Mapping Civil Rights began when Dr. Esra Ozdenerol, associate professor of Geography in the Department of Earth Sciences at the University of Memphis, was awarded a 2009 faculty research grant from the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change. Ozdenerol proposed launching the first interactive mapping site of the American Civil Rights Movement. During her tenure as Hooks Institute associate director, Ozdenerol updated the site in her Spatial Analysis and Geographic Education Laboratory (SAGE) at the Department of Earth Sciences. She continues to maintain the site as mapping technologies advance. Cartographical design and GIS programming was done by: Cem Akkus, Graduate Student, Department of Earth Sciences, University of Memphis Historical sections of the GIS map were created with the help of the following people: Aram Goudsouzian, Professor of History, University of Memphis Daphene McFerren, Hooks Institute Director Michael Blum, Graduate Student, Department of History, University of Memphis Jennifer Amido, Hooks Institute Graduate Assistant, School of Nonprofit Administration, University of Memphis Felecia Malone, Hooks Institute Graduate Assistant, School of Public Health, University of Memphis Mae Israel, Writing and Editing Services, Charlotte, NC Carla Peacher-Ryan, Hooks Institute Corporate Fellow The essays linked to the right were created with the help of the following people: Beverly Bond, Associate Professor of History, University of Memphis James Conway, Graduate Student, Department of History, University of Memphis Daphene McFerren, Hooks Institute Director Rychetta Watkins, Ph.D. Carla Peacher-Ryan, Hooks Institute Corporate Fellow Alicia Clark, Graduate Student, Department of Anthropology, University of Memphis Nathan Ball, Graduate Student, Department of History, University of Memphis Further Readings Bond, Beverly G. and Janann Sherman. Memphis in Black and White . Arcadia Publishing, 2003. Dowdy, G. Wayne. Crusades for Freedom: Memphis and the Political Transformation of the American South . Oxford: University Press of Mississippi, 2010. Dowdy, G. Wayne. Mayor Crump Don't Like It: Machine Politics in Memphis . Oxford: University Press of Mississippi, 2008. Green, Laurie. Battling the Plantation Mentality: Memphis and the Black Freedom Struggle . Chapel Hill: The University of North Carolina Press, 2007. Gritter, Elizabeth. "Black Politics in the Age of Jim Crow Memphis Tennessee, 1865-1954." Ph.D. diss., University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill, 2010. Honey, Michael Honey. Going Down Jericho Road: The Memphis Strike, Martin Luther King's Last Campaign . New York: W.W. Norton &amp; Company, 2008. Hoppe, Sherry L. and Bruce W. Speck. Maxine Smith's Unwilling Pupils: Lessons Learned in Memphis's Civil Rights Classroom . Knoxville: University of Tennessee, 2007. Lemon, Lester. Black Tennesseans 1900-1930 . Knoxville: The University of Tennessee Press, 1977. Lovie, Henry. "The Camp of the Contrabands on the Banks of the Mississippi, Fort Pickering, Memphis, Tenn." November 22, 1862, Leslie's Illustrated Newspaper, Melton, Gloria. "Blacks in Memphis, Tennessee, 1920-1955." Ph.D. diss., Washington State University, 1982. Mjagkji, Nina. Organizing Black America: An Encyclopedia of African American Associations . New York: Garland Publishing, 2001. Sigafoos, Roger Alan. Cotton Row to Beale Street: A Business History of Memphis . Memphis: Memphis State University Press, 1980. Tucker, David. Memphis Since Crump: Bossism, Blacks and Civic Reformers, 1948-1968 . Knoxville: University of Tennessee, 1979. Wright, Sharon D. Race, Power, and Political Emergence in Memphis . London: Routledge, 1999. Mapping Civil Rights Mapping Civil Rights History Early Memphis Civil War and Reconstruction Early Twentieth Century Memphis The Crump Era Memphis and World War II The Civil Rights Era Begins in Memphis Desegregation of Memphis City Schools 1968, The Sanitation Workers and Dr. King Memphis in the 1970s and 1980s Memphis Today About the Mapping Civil Rights History Project Interactive Map Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .