#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/research/msw-pdi.php
MSW-PDI - Social Work - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Social Work About Undergraduate Graduate People Research Resources Institute Research Midsouth Institute Research Highlights MSW-PDI Social-Emotional Curriculum Teachers Parents Presentations Home Social Work Research MSW-PDI Midsouth Social Work Professional Development Initiative (MSW-PDI) What is MSW-PDI? MSW-PDI is a training program for graduate social work students in their advanced year placement (students entering their second year, or entering as advanced standing), who have an interest in focusing on the behavioral health needs of transition-age youth (ages 16-25) in our community. The purpose of MSW-PDI is to increase the number of master's-prepared social workers who will work with underserved populations in Memphis and the Midsouth region. This program is funded by a Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) Behavioral Health Workforce Education and Training for Professionals Grant #G02HP27984. Program Goals Increase the professional social work workforce in Memphis and the greater Midsouth. Increase the social work involvement in inter-professional settings in Memphis and the greater Midsouth. Develop the clinical skills of graduate level social workers for engaging and improving outcomes for transition age youth and their families. Develop the skills of graduate level social workers for integrating behavioral health interventions into primary care settings and working in inter-professional settings. Develop graduate level social workers' understanding of violence prevention strategies. Develop graduate level social workers' cultural and linguistic competence. Internship, Program Components, and Stipend Participants will be placed in community agencies that serve children, youth, and/or transition-age youth for their advanced year field placement, and must enroll in SWRK 7053 and SWRK 7054. Participants will attend six experiential/didactic trainings, six seminars, and complete six competency-based assignments and one culminating project. Participants will receive a $10,000 stipend, paid directly to the student over the course of the academic year. Eligibility Must agree to work with underserved populations upon graduation. Cannot hold any other federally funded internship or employment. May have federal student loans. Must be a US citizen. Application If you are interested in applying to MSW-PDI for the 2015-2016 academic year, please email mswpdi@memphis.edu. Applications for the 2016-2017 academic year will become available here in January 2016. Priority Deadline: March 1st, 2015 Regular Deadline: April 15th, 2015 Applicants are strongly encouraged to submit their application by the Priority Deadline, March 1st, 2015. MSW-PDI 2015-2016 Application MSW-PDI Brochure MSW-PDI Intervention Catalog For more information, please contact the MSW-PDI program at 901.678.3156 or mswpdi@memphis.edu . Research Midsouth Institute Research Highlights MSW-PDI Social-Emotional Curriculum Teachers Parents Presentations Why Study Social Work? The study of social work prepares you for a career in a strong growth area News Stay connected with current and pressing social work information to students, staff, faculty, and field instructors. SUAPP The Department of Social Work is a part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy. Contact Us Main office and location information. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .