#http://www.memphis.edu/parking/permit/department.php
University Department Parking - Parking &amp; Transportation Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parking and Transportation Services Staff Directory Permit &amp; Other Parking Lambuth/Millington Parking Resources Permit and Other Parking General Permit Parking Motorcycle Parking Priority Permit Parking Resident Permit Parking Park Avenue Campus University Department Parking Visitor Parking Home Parking &amp; Transportation Services Permit and Other Parking University Department Parking University Department Parking Requests There are two types of University Department Parking Requests: Requests for parking accommodations for employees executing University business Requests for visitor parking Requests for employee parking accommodations. Departments may purchase departmental parking permits (hangtags) to be used by employees during the business day to execute University business for the department. If the employee performs department business on a regular basis, the employee may retain possession of the hangtag, although this may NOT be used as their own personal hangtag. Departments may also designate a representative who will have custody and responsibility for the permit. The representative may then issue the permit to department employees as needed. The representative will ensure that the permit usage does not violate University procedure. Departments will be charged on an annual basis for department permits at the rate of $30.00 per month, per permit ($360.00/year). NOTE: University Policy UM1701 , Disbursement of Funds, states: "University parking fees and permits for employees will not be paid from any University funds. This applies to regular or temporary faculty and staff, part-time and student staff, and any other individuals employed by the University." Requests for visitor parking. Departments who request special parking accommodations for visitors/guests are responsible for payment of the parking fees for those guests. Departments are also responsible for notifying guests of what lot(s) they may park in when on campus. Do NOT notify guests of parking accommodations until the arrangements are confirmed with Parking &amp; Transportation Services. Access the Department Guest Parking Request Form here . General Permit Parking. Cost for an Invited Visitor Permit which allows visitors access to General Parking is $2.00 per day. Departments should purchase the visitor permits and distribute to guests in advance of the guests visit, so they will have the permit displayed in their vehicles upon arrival on campus. Priority Permit Parking. Cost for access to priority lots is $3.00 per day. Departments wanting priority lot access, especially for multiple guests, are encouraged to have guests park in either parking garage. Priority (gated) access to lots other than the garages will only be granted if lot availability allows. Payment for the guests' parking would be through the use of Validation Coupons for Innovation Drive Garage or Service Tickets for Zach Curlin Garage. Departments should notify Parking &amp; Transportation Services at least 48 hours in advance of the visitors' arrival to obtain the coupons/tickets and arrange for payment. Validation Coupons and Service Tickets cost $3.00 per day and are good for one time usage only. Please note that multiple same day guests will not be allowed access to gated lots other than the parking garages due to limited space availability in the surface lots. If parking is not pre-arranged, the department guest has three options: Come to the Parking &amp; Transportation Services office and purchase an Invited Visitor permit for General Parking on the date of his/her visit Park in one of the garages at a cost of $2.00 per hour ($12.00 maximum per day) Park at one of the meters on campus at a cost of $2.00 per hour Permit and Other Parking General Permit Parking Motorcycle Parking Priority Permit Parking Resident Permit Parking Park Avenue Campus University Department Parking Visitor Parking TigerPark Don’t wait in line…Go online! The Blue Line The Blue Line shuttle at the University of Memphis. Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place. Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .