#http://www.memphis.edu/advising/Documents/nso_dashboard.pdf
Instructions for NSO Dashboard Log into myMemphis. On the Advising or Faculty tab, click on NSO Dashboard in the Advising Forms channel . The screen below should appear . In the Term field, enter the Admission term of the students you want, for example, 201480 for Fall 2014. Click Enter/Supply Banner Id(s). Single Student Profile: in the space provided. ss completed. - mail. After making the selection, click the button. Multiple Student Profiles: To look up a profile for a list of students, create a .txt file. From Type your list of U numbers or copy from your NSO list and paste in Notepad. Save on your deskt op. (*For more specific instructions, see the last page of this document.) right. Double click on the .txt file that you have saved on your desktop. - mail. After making the selection, click the information for all students in a registration site.} Reading the Profile Student Information - In the box on the top left, student information can be view ed, including name, U number, NSO session registered for, birthdate and age, gender, high school and High School GPA. The UM advisor name and Honor code will only display if these have been entered in Banner. The Banner Major is what the student entered on the application; the NSO major was the one selected when the student registered for NSO. Immunizations Immz Full Time Restricted Under 18 CP2 Y Y MMR2 Y Y HEPB N Y MENG N Y CP2 means student needs to provide proof of the 2 nd chicken pox vaccination; 11.99 hours restriction MMR2 means student needs to provide proof of the 2 nd MMR vaccination; 11.99 hours restriction (even HEPB submit a form signed by parent prior to registration (hepatitis B) MENG submit a form signed by parent prior to registration (meningitis) Test Scores Math Placement Test = ALEKS score and date Developmental Studies Reading, Math, and Writing students with a 4 are ready for college level courses based on ACT (for MATH, we use the ALEKS to determine what course a student should take) ACT Best the best ACT/SAT score for each category pulls from Banner Transfer Credits if the student has tr ansfer courses they will display in this section Holds ACTIVE holds should display here Enrolled Classes if the student has registered for the upcoming term, the courses will display Dual Enrolled Classes if the student took college courses in high school that are on the transcript, they will display in this section. History Requirement if the student took a year of American history in high school, there will be school, and enter a Petitio n in UMdegree for students who say they did take American history in high school . For Transfer students, check their transcript to see if they are transferring an American history course. Questions and Answers this section shows the questions added to t he NSO registration regarding specific interests of the student. Only if the student has registered for NSO will questions and answers be displayed. 1) Have you taken any dual enrollment courses? (yes/no response) 2) Have you taken Advanced Placement/AP exams? (yes/no response) 3) Are you interested in pursuing a healthcare career? (yes/no response) 4) Are you interested in attending law school? (yes/no response) 5) Which of these activities or services are you interested in at the University of Memphis? Select all th at apply. (drop down list) 6) Healthcare career interests (those who choose yes for number 3 choose career(s) from a drop down list) Instructi ons for Saving a .txt file of U numbers Open an Excel file with the U numbers for the students you want to look up. Copy the U numbers (highlight the U numbers, click Ctrl and C simultaneously). Open Notepad (found under Accessories from the Start menu). Click inside the Notepad box, and press Ctrl and V at the same time to paste the U numbers. on your Desktop.