#http://www.memphis.edu/law/career-services/esq-build.php
Esq.Build - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Career Services Student Resources &amp; Services Services Symplicity Guide Career Pathways Clerkships Pro Bono On Campus Interviews 1L CSO Orientation Job Fairs Job Postings Alumni Resources &amp; Services Services Reciprocity Symplicity Esq.Build Get Involved Employer Resources Posting a Job On Campus Recruiting Resume Collection Program Increasing Your Visibility Employment Statistics Home School of Law Career Services Esq.Build ESQ.BUILD The University of Memphis School of Law Career Services Office, the Memphis Bar Association (MBA), in partnership with the MBA Small Firm and Solo Practitioner Section, and the Service Corps of Retired Executives (SCORE), is pleased to announce the launch of an incubator for new solo practitioners, ESQ. BUILD. ESQ.BUILD is designed for new attorneys (Memphis Law grads only) who are in their first three years of practice to receive training regarding not only how to practice law, but how to manage a law office. ESQ.BUILD was developed to offer recent law school graduates a program wherein they are provided office space at a greatly reduced price, mentoring, CLE and other services to assist them in learning how to start and run a solo or small law firm practice. Participation in this program is limited to eight to ten attorneys who are selected during an application process. For one year, they will receive office space at Memphis Area Legal Services (MALS) at a greatly reduced cost (between $50 and $100 per month). Participants will have a private office and a conference room to meet clients, but will need to provide their own phone, computer, printer, and other office equipment. Participants will be required to handle pro bono cases for MALS, as well as donate a certain number of hours of service to the MBA. The Incubator is designed to teach young attorneys how to obtain clients and market their practice, so participants are encouraged and expected to generate fees from their own clients. Seminars will be offered on obtaining court appointed cases and cultivating referral sources. Participants will be assigned a lawyer mentor to shadow and discuss the practical aspects of practicing law. They will also attend CLEs that are geared specifically to teach them how to practice law, as well as learn how to run a small business. Participants will also be paired with a non-attorney business mentor affiliated with SCORE who will offer free advice concerning a business plan, marketing strategy and general information regarding starting a business. To be considered for this program, you must: Be a graduate of the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law; Admitted to practice in Tennessee within the past three years; Have an active license to practice in Tennessee or have taken the Tennessee Bar Examination at the time of applying for the program; Be a member of the Memphis Bar Association; Have professional liability insurance (if you do not have this, we can help you obtain professional liability insurance once you are licensed. If you happen not to pass the bar, you do not need to go forward with this program) Except for reduced payment for office space, there is no charge to participate in this program. Applications are available ONLINE (CLICK HERE) ; in the Career Services Office at the law school; or by contacting Anne Fritz at the MBA (527.3575; afritz@memphisbar.org). FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS (FAQ) What if I am awaiting bar results and don't have any professional liability insurance? We can help you obtain professional liability insurance once you are licensed. If you happen not to pass the bar, you do not need to go forward with this program. I am not a member of the Memphis Bar Association. You can become a member right now for a very low cost. The service hours seem high. We have lowered the MALS pro bono requirement to 10 hours a month and the MBA service hours to 5 hours a month. How much is the cost to have an office out of the MALS space? It is only $100/month which is the best bargain you can find anywhere. You will be building your practice while in the program so you can collect fees which should more than cover the $100/month fee, especially since you will be given guidance on how to develop clients from both your attorney mentor and non-attorney mentor. What if I get a job offer while I am in the program? You are not precluded from accepting a job offer if one arises during the program. The application can be found by CLICKING HERE, and the deadline to submit applications to the Memphis Bar Association is Friday, August 15th. The graduate can hand deliver, fax or email application materials to Anne Fritz at 145 Court Avenue, #301, Memphis, TN 38103, afritz@memphisbar.org, fax: 527-3582. Career Services Student Resources &amp; Services Services Symplicity Guide Career Pathways Clerkships Pro Bono On Campus Interviews 1L CSO Orientation Job Fairs Job Postings Alumni Resources &amp; Services Services Reciprocity Symplicity Esq.Build Get Involved Employer Resources Posting a Job On Campus Recruiting Resume Collection Program Increasing Your Visibility Employment Statistics Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .