#http://www.memphis.edu/dualenrollment/hs_teachers/course_details.php
Course Details - Dual Enrollment - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Dual Enrollment High School Based Campus Based Home Schooled Counselors Teachers High School Teachers Required Teaching Credentials University Contacts Course Details and Grading Library Instruction Home Dual Enrollment High School Teachers Course Details Course Details Syllabus and Assignments Teachers must adhere to the guidelines, learning objectives, and requirements prescribed in the model syllabus provided by the department contact. They must also use the textbook(s) required for the college course. Teachers should provide students with a print or an electronic copy of the syllabus, including a calendar of assignments specific to the secondary school calendar. A copy of this syllabus should also be submitted to both the University Faculty Coordinator and the Department Coordinator of Dual Enrollment. Variations between Calendars of Secondary Schools and the University Differences in the semester calendars of the secondary schools and the university require adjustments in the high school course calendar. This adjustment is left to the discretion of the high school teacher, with one exception: the end-of-semester grading deadline. Grades must be submitted to the Faculty Coordinator by 8:00 a.m. on the day grades are due to the university (see GRADES below) even if the high school semester has not yet ended. Verification of Class Rosters Early in the semester, initial rosters are faxed to teachers for verification. Teachers should immediately report any discrepancies between attendance and the rosters to the Dual Enrollment Faculty Coordinator. Semester Grades Grading Deadline Because the Dual Enrollment Faculty Coordinator is the Instructor of Record for all Dual Enrollment classes, grades are submitted to him/her to be entered in the system. The deadline for submitting Dual Enrollment grades to the Coordinator is 8:00 a.m. on the day university grades are due. The teacher must complete the university class requirements (including the final exam) in time to meet the university deadline for submitting grades. If an additional high school final exam comes later, the college grade should not be affected by the results of that exam. If a student has not completed all of the required work and you intend to let him/her turn in something late, do not issue a regular grade. Instead, send in the grade as an Incomplete. Then send the final grade once the student has submitted that work (there is a deadline—45 days beyond the original grade deadline). Do remember, though, that Incomplete grades are generally reserved for circumstances beyond the student’s control (e.g., illness, death in the family, etc.), not for procrastination. English 1010 and 1020 Grades English 1010 and 1020 grades should reflect only the composition portion of the course. Since the high school English grade is based on both composition and literature, it is not unusual for the college and high school English grades to differ. Procedures for Submitting Grades For ease of entry, students should be listed in alphabetical order. (Note: Separate classes do not need to be merged into a single alphabetical list. So long as each class roster is in alphabetical order, it is no problem that they are separate.) Final semester grades must be submitted as letter grades, not numerical grades, since a letter grade is entered into the system. Plus and minus grading is acceptable, though not required. Students must have a 2.75 GPA to receive the lottery scholarship in the next semester. A B- grade earns a GPA of 2.67 and will result in the loss of the lottery scholarship. A student who earns below a B but meets the university requirements for passing the course (usually a C) may progress to the next course in the sequence, but will have to pay the additional $300 otherwise covered by the lottery scholarship. Accountability Requirements In addition to the semester course grades themselves, teachers will submit at the end of the semester (1) a copy of the semester syllabus and calendar of assignments (this may be a single document or two separate ones), and (2) a spreadsheet or copy of a system/school-based grade-calculation program, showing how each student’s grade was calculated. These are materials required of all instructors (full- and part-time), not just DE teachers. Withdrawals If a student leaves school or is removed from the class for any reason, he/she must officially withdraw from the university class. Except for extenuating circumstances, such as serious illness, this withdrawal must be completed by the university withdrawal deadline. Refunds will not be issued unless the withdrawal occurs during the refund period. To withdraw from a class, students must complete the official Dual Enrollment withdrawal form, including required signatures from the student, a parent, and a principal or guidance counselor. The form should be faxed to the Dual Enrollment Faculty Coordinator, who will submit it to the Registrar for processing. High School Teachers Required Teaching Credentials University Contacts Course Details and Grading Library Instruction 2015-2016 Changes See important changes to Dual Enrollment. Frequently Asked Questions Frequently asked questions about Dual Enrollment Admissions Visit the Office of Admissions Contact Us Contact us about Dual Enrollment Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .