#http://www.memphis.edu/law/current-students/graduation-requirements.php
Graduation Requirements - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Current Students Registrar Course &amp; Class Information Course Catalog Curriculum Registration Calendars Degree Programs Part-Time Program Certificate Programs Records Request Graduation Requirements Academic Regulations Student Advising Bar Exam Information Academic Regulations Student Organizations Student Affairs Student Affairs Overview Academic Success Program Bar Exam Information Bookstore Commencement Counseling Services Information Technology Law School ID Cards Locker Rentals Orientation Parking TN Lawyers Assistance Prog. Student Advising Study Abroad Financial Information Pro Bono Honor Council GA Timesheet Form Home School of Law Current Students Graduation Requirements GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS This section will describe what requirements for graduation are required of students seeking to receive their Juris Doctor Degre from The University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law. Please refer to the Academic Regulations for additional and more thorough information pertaining to other academically-related matters. Course Requirements A student is required to complete course work for a total of at least 90 credit hours for all courses. Required Courses and Course Sequencing for Full-Time Students A student enrolled in the full-time program is required to complete the following courses in the sequence indicated, unless an exception is granted by the Dean or the Dean's designee. Required Courses and Course Sequencing for Part-Time Students A student enrolled in the part-time program is required to complete the following courses in the indicated sequence unless an exception is granted by the Dean of the Dean's designee. Other Required Courses for Full-Time and Part-Time Students In addition to the above listed courses, a student is required to satisfy both the advanced writing and the skills requirements. 1. Advanced Writing A student is required to enroll in a two (2) or three (3) hour advanced writing course. The advanced writing requirement is be met by earning a C or better in an advanced writing course. (See Section 12.5.) See the Course Catalog for a list of courses that satisfy the advanced writing requirement. (See Section 12.5.) A student is required to complete the first-year full-time curriculum prior to enrollment in an advanced writing course, unless a waiver is granted by the Academic Affairs Committee. 2. Skills A student is required to have at least two credit-hours of skills courses to satisfy the skills requirement. (See Section 12.2.) See the Course Catalog for a list of courses that satisfy the skills requirement. Limitations on Courses for Credit toward Graduation 1. Not more than a total of twelve (12) credit hours may be utilized toward satisfying graduation requirements by satisfactorily completing the following courses: (a) Any externship, (b) Law Review and Law Review Board, (c) Moot Court (including Moot Court Board, Moot Court Executive Board, and inter-school or intra-school competition credit), (d) Independent Research, and (e) Advanced Clinic. 2. To satisfy graduation requirements, a student is permitted a total of three (3) externships, two (2) clinic courses, or a combination of (1) clinic and (2) two externship courses. Absent permission from the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, a student may not repeat a clinic or externship, may not enroll in both a clinic and externship in the same semester or summer session, and may not enroll in more than one clinic or more than one externship in any semester or summer session. For enrollment purposes in these limited enrollment courses, a student who has taken one clinic will not receive priority for a second clinic, and a student who has taken one externship will not receive priority for a second externship. Waiver of Course Requirement For good cause shown and to avoid hardship, waiver of completion of any required course may be permitted only with the approval of the Academic Affairs Committee and on conditions set by the Committee. Twenty-four Month Requirement A student may complete the law school's degree requirements no earlier than 24 months after a student has commenced law study at the law school or a law school from which the school has accepted transfer credit. Six-Year Requirement A student must complete all of such student's graduation requirements within six (6) calendar years from the date of the student's initial enrollment in law school or forfeit all hours earned during this period. The student will, however, be allowed to reapply for admission as an entering student and compete with other applicants for a position in the entering class, with no credit allowed for prior work. The Academic Affairs Committee may make an exception to the foregoing rule if the student submits a proposed course of study for approval, but in no event may a student extend study so that the J.D. degree is not completed within 84 months of the time the student commenced law study. Work at Other Schools Any work to be taken at another law school on a transient basis must be approved by the Dean prior to the student's attendance at such other law school. Once approved, a student may not utilize more than 30 semester hours toward the student's degree at this law school, unless an exception is granted by the Academic Affairs Committee. Grade Requirement A student must have a grade point average of 2.00 or better in all work undertaken at the University of Memphis to graduate. Completion of Work All required courses must be completed. Completion of a course consists of sufficient attendance in class, performance of all required work, the taking of all examinations, making a passing grade (D or above or, in the case of non-graded course, a grade of E or S), with the exception of the research requirement which requires a grade of C or above. (See Section 12.5.) Failure to complete work in any course as it is required, or to take an examination when required, will result in a grade of F in the course. Delay in completing the work in a course may be permitted, as outlined under Delay in Completing Required Work. (See Section 10.) Pro Bono Requirement A student must complete forty hours of pro bono service to graduate. Please see the Pro Bono Program Handbook for more information. Current Students Registrar Course &amp; Class Information Course Catalog Curriculum Registration Calendars Degree Programs Part-Time Program Certificate Programs Records Request Graduation Requirements Academic Regulations Student Advising Bar Exam Information Academic Regulations Student Organizations Student Affairs Student Affairs Overview Academic Success Program Bar Exam Information Bookstore Commencement Counseling Services Information Technology Law School ID Cards Locker Rentals Orientation Parking TN Lawyers Assistance Prog. Student Advising Study Abroad Financial Information Pro Bono Honor Council GA Timesheet Form Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .