#http://www.memphis.edu/law/about/dining.php
Dining - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library About Administration &amp; Staff History Virtual Tour ABA Disclosures Diversity Diversity Home TIP Student Diversity Committee Scholarships Facilities Facilities Overview Virtual Tour Floor Plans Photo Gallery News &amp; Events Law School News Faculty News On Legal Grounds Blog ML-Memphis Law Magazine Events Calendar Communications Office Directions Contact Media Resource General Contact Info Faculty &amp; Staff Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Home School of Law About Dining THE FOOD SCENE The average person may only think of Memphis food in terms of barbecue (and with good reason, see the list below), but Memphians do not live by pork ribs alone. There's a divine variety of food that's been brought to the city by families, restaurateurs, and world-class chefs alike. This list is but a small cross section -- a tempting morsel -- of the current Memphis dining scene. From the trusty steakhouses, soul food, and classic fine dining that have fed the city for years, to the up-and-coming gastropubs, farm-to-table eateries, and ethnic offerings, here're a short list of restaurants that represent our gastronomic greatness. Restaurant Iris Chef Kelly English has amazed Memphis since 2008 with his skillful combinations of Southern, French-Creole, and fine-dining cuisine. Reservations are in high demand at the award-winning, 13-table Restaurant Iris, due to dishes like the fried oyster and blue cheese-stuffed New York Strip, the lobster knuckle sandwich, mahi-mahi with roasted corn custard, or the chef's choice five-course meal with wine pairings. The Second Line As the casual cousin of Chef Kelly English's Restaurant Iris, The Second Line offers up simple, authentic New Orleans fare. Think juicy roast beef po' boys with bread delivered fresh from NOLA as well as heaping trays of fried seafood, crawfish pimento cheese fries, Fancy Ass Cole Slaw, and Natchitoches meat pies. Central BBQ There will be a line out the door on any given weekend afternoon at the Central BBQ location on Central Ave in Midtown. Locals swear by the pulled pork sandwich (you have to get it with slaw), succulent dry rub ribs, hot wings, and BBQ nachos. What also makes a meal at Central BBQ otherworldly is the satisfying quality of the sides like the creamy mac &amp; cheese, potato salad, collard greens, and baked beans. Beauty Shop Chef and restaurateur Karen Carrier's menu at the Beauty Shop is a myriad of bold international flavors and is just as inventive as the location: a '60s-era beauty salon (where Priscella Presley was a customer) redone as a swanky, eclectic restaurant with a few wash sinks and hair dryers still intact. The Cooper Young location offers daily specials for ravioli, crêpes, sandwiches, fish, and steaks, along with go-to dishes like beet-stained salmon gravlax with avocado-tangerine salsa, cocoa-ginger-spiced brisket, and watermelon and wings. Folk's Folly Every city needs a quintessential steakhouse done well and in Memphis, that's Folk's Folly. The family restaurant has been an institution and a go-to venue for proms, birthdays, graduations, engagements, and special family dinners since 1977. Gus's World Famous Fried Chicken The sign says "world-famous" and it's no exaggeration. Gus' secret recipe of crispy, spicy, juicy fried chicken is served on Styrofoam plates with beans, slaw, and Wonder Bread, of course. Since the 1950s when the first spot opened in Mason, Tennessee, right outside of Memphis, locals and tourists have been lining up alongside one another and waiting patiently for its made-to-order fried chicken. Now you can get it at seven locations in four states, though the unassuming Front St location is the best-known. Andrew Michael Italian Kitchen When childhood friends Andrew Ticer and Michael Hudman opened their first restaurant in 2008, they combined Memphis' reverence for pork with their own Italian culinary training. The chefs' strength is consistent execution of an ambitious menu, down to the last detail; it's no wonder they earned a spot on Food &amp; Wine's 2013 Best New Chef list. Hog &amp; Hominy A second, more casual concept from Ticer and Hudman earns a spot on the list for its wood-fired pizzas like the Red Eye -- with pork belly, celery leaves, and a fried egg -- along with a menu of sweetbreads, collard greens, short ribs, meatballs, and an unforgettable peanut-butter pie. Chez Philippe Located inside the historic Peabody Hotel Downtown, Chez Philippe has provided Memphis with precise, graceful fine dining for decades. The ornate dining room and top-notch service live up to the quality of food, ordered in seasonal three-, five-, or eight-course dinners paired with an extensive wine list. Alcenia's Prepare to be greeted at the door by owner Betty Joyce "B.J." Chester-Tamayo with a big, back-cracking hug at her Uptown soul food restaurant (named after her Mother). She'll take your order, cook it herself in the small kitchen, and probably deliver it to your table, too, before selling you some bread pudding to go. Going to Alcenia's for lunch or for chicken-and-waffles brunch is an immersion in Southern hospitality and home-cooking. Charles Vergos' Rendezvous Arguably the most famous barbecue restaurant in the city, Charles Vergos' Rendezvous started out as a family sandwich shop in the late '40s. Since then, the Vergos family's Greek dry rub ribs have become an integral part of the city's barbecue identity. Also, don't pass up the cheese and sausage plate! Las Tortugas Deli Mexicana Far from the usual Tex-Mex, Pepe Magallanes and his son Jonathan have brought authentic Mexico City cuisine to an unassuming shopping center just outside the Memphis city limits. There's a line out the door most days for lunch for the supremely fresh fish tacos, guacamole, tortas, elote, and aguas frescas. Bounty on Broad Having opened in late 2014, Bounty's already a hit with scores of Memphians who are as eager for new eats and drinks as they are to visit the up-and-coming Broad Avenue neighborhood. Tables will share dishes like the addictive creamed kale with polenta, mushroom and citrus salad, fresh oysters on the half shell, scallops with pears and pearl onions, and the sublimely moist Chicken "Under a Brick." The Bar-B-Q Shop Yes, there are three barbecue restaurants on this list, but that's just the tip of the smoky, tender, irresistible iceberg. Yes, locals will argue about which joints are the best for all eternity, but the Bar-B-Q Shop on Madison Avenue holds its own for its fall-off-the-bone, tender ribs. The secret is the Vernon family's 50-year-old sauce recipe, a thick, vinegar-based elixir that adorns pork ribs, beef brisket, barbecue spaghetti, barbecue bologna, and pulled pork sandwiches on Texas toast. Ask any five Memphians their favorite BBQ establishment – it's likely you'll end up with five different answers. It's good to question the natives and your fellow students for their favorite spots. Perennial favorites (in alphabetic order, of course) within a five-mile drive of Memphis Law include the following: The BBQ Shop - 1782 Madison Avenue - (901) 272-1277 Central BBQ - 2249 Central Avenue - (901) 272-9377 Charles Vergos' Rendezvous - 52 S 2nd Street - (901) 523-2746 Cozy Corner -745 N Parkway - (901) 527-9158 Interstate - 2265 S 3rd Street - (901) 775-2304 Neely's - 670 Jefferson - (901) 521-9798 Payne's - 1762 Lamar Avenue - (901) 272-1523 Top's Bar-B-Q - 1286 Union Avenue - (901) 725-7527 About Administration &amp; Staff History Virtual Tour ABA Disclosures Diversity Diversity Home TIP Student Diversity Committee Scholarships Facilities Facilities Overview Virtual Tour Floor Plans Photo Gallery News &amp; Events Law School News Faculty News On Legal Grounds Blog ML-Memphis Law Magazine Events Calendar Communications Office Directions Contact Media Resource General Contact Info Faculty &amp; Staff Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .