#http://www.memphis.edu/bitm/faculty/judithsimon.php
Judith Simon - BIT - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Business Information and Technology Welcome About Admissions Programs Courses Faculty Research FCBE Faculty Lloyd Brooks Judith Brown Jasbir Dhaliwal Mark Gillenson Wade M Jackson Brian Janz Bill Kettinger Naveen Kumar Richard Kumi Euntae "Ted" Lee Jong Seok Lee Robin Poston Sandra Richardson Margaret Schultz Judith Simon Thomas Stafford Chen Zhang Home BIT Faculty Judith Simon Judith Simon Professor, DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS INFORMATION AND TECHNOLOGY Phone 901.678.5932 Email jsimon@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.4151 Office 308 Fogelman Administration Building Office Hours By Appointment About Judith Simon Dr. Judith C. Simon earned her bachelor's and doctoral degrees at Oklahoma State University, with her MBA from West Texas State University (now West Texas A &amp; M University). Additional education includes certificates from the AACSB Faculty Development Institute and from professional courses on information systems topics. She worked for a manufacturing corporation in Texas for six years and has served as a consultant to large and small organizations. Teaching areas have included many of the department's graduate and undergraduate classes. Dr. Simon's publications include nine textbooks by various leading publishers such as John Wiley &amp; Sons and Prentice Hall, as well as numerous other instructional materials, professional journal articles, and proceedings at national conferences. She also provides organizational training on information security topics. Current research interests focus on issues related to strategic management of innovative technology and information security management. Professional organization memberships include the Society for Information Management and the Association for Information Systems. Education Doctor of Philosophy, Oklahoma State University Master of Business Administration, West Texas University Bachelor of Science, Oklahoma State University Interests Teaching Interests Information Security Management; IT Strategic Management; Cyber Ethics Research Interests Information Assurance Management; Global IS Issues, IT Workforce Trends Selected Research Jain, R. P., Poston, R. S., and Simon, J. C., "An Empirical Investigation of Client Managers Responsibilities in Managing Offshore Outsourcing of Software-Testing Projects," IEEE Transactions in Engineering Management, 58(4), November 2011, 743-757. Jain, R.P., Simon, J.C., and Poston, R. 2011. "Mitigating Vendor Silence in Offshore Outsourcing: An Empirical Investigation," Journal of Management Information Systems (27:4), pp. 261-298. Abstract Simon, J. C., Poston, R. S., and Kettinger, W. J. 2009. "Creating Better Governance of Offshore Services," Information Systems Management (26:2), pp. 110-122. Abstract Poston, R. S., Kettinger, W. J., and Simon, J. C. 2009. "Managing the Vendor Set: Achieving Best Pricing and Quality Service in IT Outsourcing," MIS Quarterly Executive (8:2), pp. 45-58. Abstract Bullen, C., Abraham, T., Gallagher, K., Simon, J. C., and Zweig, P. 2009. "IT Workforce Trends: Implications for Curriculum and Hiring," Communications of the AIS (24:1), pp. 70-72. Abstract Bullen, C., Abraham, T., Gallagher, K., Kaiser, K., and Simon, J. C. 2007. "Changing IT Skills: The Impact of Sourcing Strategies on in-house Capability Requirements," Journal of Electronic Commerce in Organizations (5:2), pp. 24-46 Simon, J. C., Kaiser, K., Beath, C., Goles, T., and Gallagher, K. 2007. "Information Technology Workforce Skills: Does Size Matter?" Information Systems Management (24:7), pp. 345-360. Simon, J. C., Wilkes, R. B., and Brooks, L. D. 2006. "A Comparison of Faculty and Undergraduate Students' Perceptions of Online Courses and Degree Programs," Journal of Information Systems Education (17:2), pp. 131-140. Zweig, P., Kaiser, K., Beath, C., Bullen, C., Gallagher, K., Goles, T., Howard, J., and Simon, J. C. 2006. "The Information Technology Workforce: Trends and Implications 2005-2008," MIS Quarterly Executive (5:2), pp. 47-54. Abstract Abraham, T., Beath, C., Bullen, C., Gallagher, K., Goles, T., Kaiser, K., and Simon, J.C. 2006. "IT Workforce Trends: Implications for IS Programs," Communications of the AIS (17), pp. 1147-1170. Abstract Faculty Lloyd Brooks Judith Brown Jasbir Dhaliwal Mark Gillenson Wade M Jackson Brian Janz Bill Kettinger Naveen Kumar Richard Kumi Euntae "Ted" Lee Jong Seok Lee Robin Poston Sandra Richardson Margaret Schultz Judith Simon Thomas Stafford Chen Zhang BIT News Publications, recognitions and spotlights about faculty and students of the BIT department. BIT Events Find out what's happening at the department and visit our weekly colloquium. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .