#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/other/2015FSCMS2710002.pdf
Course Syllabus SCMS 27 10 00 2 Business Statistics Tuesdays and Thursdays , 5:30 p.m. 6:55 p.m. Fall Semester, 2015 3.0 Credit Hours (Last updated: 8/22 /2015) Instructor: Wendy Barnes McEntee E - mail: wmbarnes@memphis.edu Office: FCBE Room 359 Twitter: @WBMcEntee LinkedIn: Wendy McEntee (search) Office Hours: Wednesdays, 12:00 p.m. 2:00 p.m. Appointments can be made for other times via email. I strongly encourage you to email me for an appointment before showing up during office hours. First consideration will be given to students who schedule an appointment. Course Overview Business Statistics I is an introduction to the basic statistical procedures necessary for collection, summarization, analysis, and interpretation of business and economics data. Topics include two classes of statistical methods: descriptive and inferential. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: There are no official pre - requisites or co - requisites for this co urse. Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : Statistics for Managers Using Microsoft ® Excel, Seventh Edition by David M. Levine, David F. Stephan, and Kathryn A. Szabat Pearson Education Inc , 201 4 , ISBN: 978 - 0 - 13 - 306181 - 9 Location of Course Materials : All course material can be found in yo ur textbook, will be given out during class, or will be located on the course website, which is found through . Page 2 Course Objectives : This course is an introduction to the basic conce pts used to collect, summarize, analyze, and interpret business and economics data. Topics are divided into descriptive and inferential statistical methods. The course provides coverage of topics including collection and presentation of data, measures of c entral tendency and variability, probability theory, sampling distributions, estimation of parameters, hypothesis testing, and experimental design and analysis of variance. Emphasis on decision making technology is made by extensive use of MS Excel in dev eloping decision - aids to facilitate decision making process for a variety of important and real - world managerial problems. After completing this course, students are expected to have an understanding of the following concepts as well as a beginning famili arity with their application in business practi ce : - Describ ing data using descriptive and inferential statistics - Perform ing statistical analysis and interpret ing the results - Mak ing inferences about a population from the sample data - C onstructing evidence - based decisions using statistical analyses and well - reasoned statistical arguments Students will attempt to put their understanding of these concepts to use through exams and class assignments. By completing these activities, students will have the opportunity to develop a ba sic, working knowledge of statistical concep ts and their use in business . Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman Colleg e. You should take the time to become familiar with the overall learning objectives as a student in the BBA program : Course Methodology : This is an on - ground class and will be taught using the textbook and online resources. Class time will be sp ent hearing lectures, engaging in discussion, and participating in group activities. You NEED a book for this class! Do not try to get through b y relying on PowerPoint slides as y ou w ill most likely be disappointed. Page 3 Grading and Evaluation Criteria Yo ur performance in this course will be evaluated using exams, assignments, and class participation . Your accumulated points for the semester will determine your grade. Some work is to be submitted through the course dropbox, some in class, and some in both places. Please follow the proper submission procedures for each assignment. Unless otherwise specified, all written work should be in 12 point Times New Roman font with one inch margins. Proper grammar (i.e., spelling, capitalization, punctuation) is requi red. Outside sources should be cited appropriately. Each course requirement will be detailed in separate instructions. Please note: All course requirements listed here are Final Course Grades : A total o f 7 00 points will be allocated over a variety of different activities during this class. Grades for this class will be assigned as follows: Grade Percent Range Points Range A Range 90% - 100% 630 7 00 B Range 80% - 89% 560 629 C Range 70% - 79% 4 90 559 D Range 60% - 69% 420 489 F Below 60% Below 420 The plus/minus grading system will be used in this course. Course Topics : Part One: Descriptive Statistics Textbook Readings: Chapter 1 Defining and Collecting Data Chapter 2 Organi zing and Visualizing Data Chapter 3 Numerical Descriptive Measures Part Two: Inferential Statistics Textbook Readings: Chapter 4 Basic Probability Chapter 5 Discrete Probability Distributions Chapter 6 The Normal Distribution and Other Continuous Distributions Chapter 7 Sampling Distributions Chapter 8 Confidence Interval Estimation Chapter 9 Fundamentals of Hypothesis Testing: One - Sample Tests Chapter 10 Two - Sample Tests Page 4 List and Schedule of Formal Assessed Activities : More detailed explanations of class activities can be found on the course website. Exams ( 400 points total): Exam 1 Thursday, September 17, 2015 at 5:30 p.m. (100 points) Exam 2 Thursday, October 8, 20 15 at 5:30 p.m. (100 points) Exam 3 Tuesday, November 3, 2015 at 5:30 p.m. (100 points) Exam 4 Tuesday, November 24, 2015 at 5:30 p.m. (100 points) Assignments (350 points total): Assignment 1 Tuesday, September 1, 2015 at 5:30 p.m. (50 points) Ass ignment 2 Tuesday, September 22, 2015 at 5:30 p.m. (50 points) Assignment 3 Thursday, October 15, 2015 at 5:30 p.m. (50 points) Assignment 4 Thursday, November 5, 2015 at 5:30 p.m. (50 points) Assignment 5 Thursday, December 1, 2015 at 5:30 p.m. (5 0 points) Class Engagement and Participation (50 points total): On - going over the semester . Includes both in - class and online participation. Optional Final Exam (100 points): To be given in - class, Thursday , December 10 , 2015 This exam is optional and wi ll be used to replace your lowest test grade. Should you miss an exam for any reason, this is your only opportunity to make - up the points. Final Exam Schedule : The final exam period for this class will take place on Thursday, December 10 , 2015, at 5:30 p.m. The final exam for this class will be scheduled according to the academic calendar website . Course Policies E - MAIL: The best way to contact me is through email. I am committed to responding to your emails within 48 hours unless extenuating circumstances exist. All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all official course correspondence a t this email account. Any inability to receive Attendance: Attendance at all class meetings is highly e ncouraged, alth ough role will not be taken . A class engagement and participation score is assigned as a part of the course requirements. This score will take into consideration both in - class participation and online participation. Page 5 It is hard to participat e in class if you are not in attendance or checking the website regularly . You are responsible for all material covered in class as well as the material in the textbook. Some of the exam questions will come directly from class discussions. Adding/Droppin g : If you have questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to this page on the . Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes rega rding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a Should your professor have evidence Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Participation: A n engagement and participation grade for this class is assigned. W e w ill all find class to be more interesting and discussion livelier when all students are involved. You are expected to prepare for class. Students will be called upon to answer questions and give opinions. Classroom or Online Behavior: The following procedures are outlined here in order to help provide the best classroom experience possible for you to master the course material. Please make every effort to abide by these procedure s for the benefit of yourself and your classmates. - Come to class on time. If you arrive late, please try to minimize the disruption to your classmates while you find a seat. - ny reason is disruptive, no matter how quiet you try to be. - Turn off your cell phone. Texting in class is not acceptable. - During the course of the semester, the class schedule may change. It is your responsibility to be aware of any changes that may occur. Check the course website frequently. - Feel free to use electronic devices for note - taking and general classroom use. This is a privilege, not a right. Therefore, if using any sort of electronic device during class time, it is expected that you will be usi ng it for class purposes only. - Classroom lectures and discussion may not be audio - recorded without prior permission from the instructor. Page 6 Late Assignments: Late assignments will not be accepted. If you miss assignments, exams , or any other in - class activit ies you will not be allowed to make them up. Please note that lack of access to the Internet is not considered an acceptable excuse for not completing coursework. Extra Credit: Students who find that their performance in this class is not what they want should come see me early in the course before time becomes too short to find a way to solve their problems. Opportunities for extra points may be available, but only to those who are present and actively participating in class. Reporting Illness or Absen ce: While class attendance is not mandatory, please send me an email, as a courtesy, to let me know if you are going to miss class for any reason. Inclement Weather: In the event that inclement weather requires the cancellation of classes at The Univer sity of Memphis, local radio and television media will be immediately notified. Additionally, The University of Memphis has established an Inclement Weather Hotline at 901 - 678 - 0888 as well as Tig erText , an emergency alert text messaging service to students, faculty and staff. This optional service is used in the event of an on - campus emergency, an unscheduled university closing, or a delay or cancellation of classes due to, for instance, inclemen t weather. Click Here for information on TigerText. Syllabus Changes: The instructor reserves the right to make changes as necessary to this syllabus. If changes are necessitated during the ter m of the course, the instructor will immediately notify students of such changes both by individual email communication and posting both notification and nature of change(s) on the course bulletin board in ecourseware. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance