#http://www.memphis.edu/coe/scholarships/
Scholarships - COE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. College of Education About Departments Degrees Scholarships Research Alumni Faculty Home COE Scholarships COE Scholarships Unless otherwise noted, College of Education Scholarships are awarded at the end of the spring semester for the following academic year. Students must be fully admitted to a program in the College of Education at the time of application. **NEW** To apply, log in to your MyMemphis account and click on the "Account$" tab. The Tiger Scholarship Manager is in the Scholarship Office channel. Please upload a one to two-page essay indicating how you meet the qualifications for the particular scholarship or explain what effect this scholarship will have on your future plans. You may upload your essay by clicking on any "Add a New File" link or in any text box on the general application. Thanks to the generous support of alumni and friends, the College of Education was able to provide more than $50,000 in scholarship awards for the 2012-2013 academic year to undergraduate and graduate students from various departments and program in the college. Each award is distributed based on criteria established by the donor, but most scholarships require the completion of a standard application packet that includes a general application and a brief essay. Alpha Delta Kappa, Alpha Chapter/Mary A. Suggs Memorial Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $1,000 Number of Annual Awards: 1 Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate, Female, Tennessee Resident, Junior or Senior in College of Education with desire to teach The scholarship was first established in 1976 by the Alpha Chapter of Alpha Delta Kappa, an international honorary organization of women educators, to honor the memory of Shelby County educator Mary A. Suggs. It is awarded each year to a female student who is a junior or senior majoring in Education with a desire to teach. In addition, the recipient of this scholarship must be a resident of Tennessee, enrolled full-time and have at least a 3.0 cumulative GPA. Financial need will be considered along with other requirements. Ernest C. Ball Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $500 - $1000 Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate or Graduate, Concentration in Early Childhood Education In consideration of his desire to assist students pursuing a career in the area of Early Childhood Education, Mr. Ernest C. Ball established this scholarship in 1984. Ball, a 1919 graduate of what was then known as the West Tennessee Normal School, went on to be Superintendent of Memphis City Schools for 21 years. To be eligible for the award, a student must be seeking an undergraduate or graduate degree with a concentration in Early Childhood Education. Preference will be based upon academic ability and financial need. Sam Boswell Leadership Award Individual Award Amount: $500 Number of Annual Awards: 1 Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate, Full-time Sophomore, Junior or Senior in the College of Education Family and friends established this scholarship to honor the memory of Samuel T. Boswell (BBA '75, MS '78) and to support the programs of the College of Education at the University of Memphis. Recipients of this award will be enrolled full-time as a sophomore, junior or senior in a program leading to an undergraduate degree within the College of Education, will have a cumulative GPA of at least 2.75, and be in good academic standing. This student will have demonstrated leadership qualities and community involvement. Financial need may be considered but is not a requirement. Cox Family Memorial Scholarship Fund Individual Award Amount: Varies Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate, Full-time Junior or Senior in the College of Education 3.25 GPA Ellen Davies-Rodgers Educational Endowment Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $500 - $4,000 Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate or Graduate, Concentration in Early Childhood Education As one of her many contributions to education, Ms. Ellen Davies-Rodgers, a 1923 graduate of the West Tennessee Normal School, began a scholarship fund to provide financial assistance to deserving students who wish to work in the area of Early Childhood Education. Recipients of this award will be pursuing a degree in an undergraduate or graduate program within the College of Education with a concentration in Early Childhood Education and have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0. Dockery - Faros Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $500-$2100 Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate or Graduate, Concentration in Physical Education The Memphis Junior Chamber of Commerce established this scholarship to memorialize Rex Dockery and Chris Faros and to assist deserving students in the area of Physical Education. Recipients will be a junior or senior undergraduate student or a graduate student seeking a degree with a concentration in Physical Education. They must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.5 and show demonstrated leadership abilities. Sara P. Eaton Scholarship Individual Award Amount:Up to $1,000 Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate or Graduate, Concentration in Elementary Education The Sara P. Eaton scholarship serves to honor her memory and provide funding for Arkansas students pursuing a degree with a concentration in Elementary Education at the College of Education at the University of Memphis. Recipients of this scholarship will be from either Crittenden or St. Francis County in Arkansas. George W. Etheridge Education Alumni Individual Award Amount: $1,000 - $2,200 Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Pursing an Undergraduate or Graduate degree from the College of Education The University of Memphis, College of Education Alumni Chapter established this scholarship in honor of Dr. George W. Etheridge. This award is available to full-time students, both graduate and undergraduate, who have at least a 3.0 cumulative GPA. Recipients will have demonstrated service and leadership to the department, college, university and professional community. Financial need will be considered as part of the selection process. George W. Etheridge Early Childhood Education Memorial Individual Award Amount: $1,000 - $1,600 Number of Annual Awards:Varies Minimum Eligibility:Undergraduate or Graduate, Concentration in Early Childhood To honor the memory of an 'outstanding professor and educator' a scholarship was established for students in Early Childhood Education by Ira A. and Barbara K. Lipman. Recipients of this scholarship will be pursuing a degree within the College of Education with a concentration in Early Childhood Education. Dr. Burl E. Gilliland Memorial Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $1,000 - $2,700 Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Graduate, Enrolled in Counseling Psychology Dr. Burl E. Gilliland was a respected, accomplished scholar who was instrumental in the development of the PhD in Counseling Psychology program in the College of Education. In his memory, annual awards are made to full-time graduate students pursuing a degree in Counseling Psychology within the College of Education at the University of Memphis. Preference will be given to students who demonstrate a need for financial assistance. Learn More . Dr. Bobby G. Greer Graduate Fellowship in Rehabilitation Counseling Individual Award Amount: Varies Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Graduate, Full-Time, 3.25 GPA George T. and Betty Johnson Graduate Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $2,500 Number of Annual Awards: 2 Minimum Eligibility: Graduate student enrolled in any graduate program in the College of Education, overall combined GPA of 3.5 This scholarship was established by George T. Johnson in consideration of his desire to support deserving graduate students in the College of Education at the University of Memphis. Special consideration will be given to applicants who are returning to pursue a master's degree after significant work experience. Kiwanis Club of East Memphis Memorial Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $1,000 - $2,200 Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate or Graduate, Concentration in Special Education To honor its former members, the Kiwanis Club of East Memphis established a living memorial known as the Kiwanis Club of East Memphis Memorial Scholarship. Recipients of this scholarship shall be residents of Shelby County and undergraduate or graduate students enrolled a degree program with a concentration in Special Education and have a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.50. Eunice B. Ordman Scholarship Individual Award Amount: Up to $3,000 per semester Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility :Graduate or Undergraduate student, pursing licensure in Early Childhood or Elementary Education, Teaching All Learners, or Physical Education Teacher Education; special consideration will be given to candidates from groups that are underrepresented in k-6 classrooms The vision of the Ordman Fund is to increase diversity among early childhood and elementary school teachers. Since teachers serve as role models, all students benefit from having a diverse group of people entering the profession. Applicants must be admitted to the Teacher Education Program in the College of Education at the University of Memphis and have declared a concentration in early childhood, elementary education, teaching all learners or physical education teacher education. Special consideration will be given to candidates from groups that are underrepresented as teachers in K-6 classrooms (e.g. in terms of gender, race, or ethnicity). Learn more about eligibility and application criteria for the Ordman Scholarship. The Harold W. Perry Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $1,000 - $2,500 Number of Annual Awards: 2 Minimum Eligibility:Undergraduate or Graduate, Concentration in Special Education The Harold W. Perry Scholarship was established by the Cerebral Palsy Council for West Tennessee. Recipients of the scholarship will be an undergraduate or graduate student enrolled in a degree program with a concentration in Special Education and have a minimum GPA of 2.50. Preference will be given to students who desire to work with individuals with multiple disabilities including at least one handicap of a physical impairment. Raines Family Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $1,000 - $2,000 Number of Annual Awards: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Must be pursing an Undergraduate or Graduate degree in the area of Early Childhood Education from the College of Education. Must be admitted to the Teacher Education Program (TEP). Undergraduate GPA 3.0 - Graduate GPA 3.25. The Raines Family Scholarship was established to honor the memory of Evelyn “Irene” and James Athel Raines, parents of University of Memphis President, Dr. Shirley C. Raines. This scholarship recognizes their life-long support of education and their commitment to helping others, both professionally and as caring community members. Mildred A. Reeves Scholarship for Clinical Nutrition Individual Award Amount: $1,000 - $2,700 Number of Annual Awards:Up to 3 Minimum Eligibility:Graduate, Enrolled in Graduate Program in Clinical Nutrition Mildred A. Reeves established a scholarship for Clinical Nutrition out of a desire to support deserving students at the University of Memphis. Awards will be made to students enrolled full time in the Clinical Nutrition graduate program in the College of Education and have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.25. Elma Roane Scholarship Individual Award Amount:$2,000 - $4,000 Number of Annual Award: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate or Graduate Female, Enrolled in Physical Education Program Friends and colleagues made this scholarship available to honor Ms. Elma Roane for her accomplishments and contributions to the University of Memphis women's athletics and to award scholarships to students pursuing a career in health, physical education, recreation and allied fields. To qualify for this award, recipients must be female, a U.S. citizen, enrolled full time as a junior or senior undergraduate or graduate students. Undergraduate applicants must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.75 and graduate applicants a minimum of 3.25. Preference may be given to student athletes participating in women's varsity or club sports or majoring in physical education. Elizabeth &amp; Harold Robinson Scholarship Individual Award Amount:Varies Number of Annual Award: Varies Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate or Graduate, Full-Time, 3.0 GPA Dr. Mary Ann Smith Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $700 Number of Annual Awards: 1 Minimum Eligibility: Enrolled in final semester of the Master of Science in Clinical Nutrition and Dietetic Internship/Residency in the College of Education. Minimum cumulative GPA of 3.25 . A dedicated educator and respected member of the field of nutrition, Dr. Mary Ann Smith founded our master’s degree program in Clinical Nutrition with a Dietetic Internship and Residency. The Dr. Mary Ann Smith Scholarship in Clinical Nutrition was established by her family and friends to honor her legacy. Eligible students are enrolled in their final semester of the Master of Science in Clinical Nutrition and Dietetic Internship/Residency in the College of Education with an interest in pediatric nutrition. Minimum cumulative GPA of 3.25. Turetzky Family Student Teaching Scholarship Individual Award Amount: $1,000 Number of Annual Awards: 2 Minimum Eligibility: Undergraduate or Graduate, Student Teacher To support the Office of Clinical Student Teaching and its students, Dr. Joel A. Turetzky (MA '64) and Mariette K. Turetzky (MA '65) established a scholarship that is made available during the fall and spring semesters of each year. In order to be eligible for this award, a student must be a U.S. citizen, enrolled as an undergraduate or graduate and must be doing their clinical student teaching. A minimum GPA of 3.25 for undergraduate applicants and 3.50 for graduate students is required professional education courses. Becky and Martin Zummach Book Scholarship Individual Award Amount:$500 Number of Annual Award: 1 Minimum Eligibility: Graduate Apply to our Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Fall Deadline: July 1, 2015 (domestic); May 2, 2015 (international) Apply to our Masters and Doctoral Programs Earn your Masters Degree from any of our four departments or take your education to the next level with a doctorate degree. COE Online Earn a degree on YOUR time. Contact Us Have questions? Call or email today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .