#http://www.memphis.edu/mediaroom/releases/apr15/ccfa.php
CCFA Adds Two Distinguished Professionals to Faculty - Media Room - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UofM Media Room Publications Resources This Week UofM Magazine News Releases Contact News Releases Latest News Releases October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 News Releases Archive 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Home Media Room News Releases CCFA Adds Two Distinguished Professionals to Faculty CCFA Adds Two Distinguished Professionals to Faculty Contact: Kimberly Rogers 901.678.4164 krogers@memphis.edu April 21, 2015 - Two departments in the University of Memphis College of Communication and Fine Arts have named distinguished members to their faculty – Tom Shadyac, successful Hollywood director, and Kevin Sharp, director of Dixon Gallery and Gardens. Shadyac is the new filmmaker in residence in the Department of Communication, and Sharp has been appointed joint faculty member by the Department of Art. Shadyac's resume includes films starring Jim Carrey, Robin Williams and Eddie Murphy in the hit movies Ace Ventura: Pet Detective, Patch Adams and The Nutty Professor . Shadyac has been teaching at the U of M since 2013, donating his services, time and resources. "The filmmaker in residence title is a small act we can make to recognize the remarkable effort and philanthropic resources that he has provided and continues to offer," said Leroy Dorsey, chair of the Department of Communication. Shadyac's course, Storytelling and Life, is a popular one, often filling up within minutes of the start of registration. Initially the class was set up for 25 students. Since its inception, it has grown and this spring was moved to a 95-seat classroom to accommodate student expansion. The popularity of the class is attributed to his hands-on, real world sensibility to the arts, which energizes his students and the faculty. He encourages the University's mission of engaged scholarship by having his students participate in community service-related projects for area schools. Shadyac's appointment is a 10-year renewable one. In addition, he continues to teach at Colorado University, flying to Memphis weekly for his one-night, special topics course. Sharp will hold a six-year appointment as joint faculty member, and will teach and serve on thesis/dissertation committees. Hired in 2007, Sharp's administration has led to many significant contributions to Dixon. The annual budget has increased more than $1 million, more than 300 works of fine and decorative art have been added to the permanent collection, and he led a successful $4.5 million campaign to endow a Dixon directorship. In addition, he expanded the visibility of Dixon through collaborations with museums such as the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts in Richmond, Speed Art Museum in Louisville, Petit Palais in Paris, France, and Saint Louis Art Museum. Before joining Dixon, Sharp served as director of Visual Arts at Cedarhurst Center for the Arts in Mt. Vernon, Ill., curator of American Art at Norton Museum of Art in West Palm Beach, Fla., and research curator at the Art Institute of Chicago. "We are very pleased to welcome Kevin Sharp to our faculty," said Richard A. Lou, Department of Art chair. "Mr. Sharp has brought tremendous vision to the Dixon Gallery and Gardens that has produced a wonderful vitality with the Dixon's direct engagement with the contemporary arts community and the underserved populations in the region. It has been inspiring to observe all of these transformations take place in the very short time that he has been here." For more information about Shadyac's appointment, call the Department of Communication at 901-678-2565. For more information about Sharp's appointment, call the Department of Art at 901-678-2216. News Releases Latest News Releases October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 News Releases Archive 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Music Performance Calendar Find out where the music is Art Museum Learn about the latest exhibits Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/2/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .