#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/econ/2015FECON7100002.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus FCBE 7100 - 002 Economics for the Global Executive Fall Semester, 2015 3.0 Credit Hours Instructor: Cyril F. Chang , PhD Phone : 901.678.3561 E - mail: cchang @memphis.edu Office: FCBE #312 URL: Office Hours: Tuesdays, 4:30pm 5:30pm and by appointment. I. Course Overview Consumer behavior, managerial economics and strategy, market structure in a global The Graduate catalog . Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: Knowledge of undergraduate Principles of Economics, basic Statistics, and Algebra are helpful but not required. Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : Our main textbook is Managerial Economics , 13th Edition, by James McGuigan, R. C. Moyer, and Frederick H. DE B. Harris. There will also be journal articles and handouts to supplement the textbook. A supplemental book is Naked Economics by Charles Whee lan. This fun - to - read book blends economic concepts into headline news and top stories and i s used to as a gateway into the more technical form of analysis pr esented in the main textbook. Recommended Texts (and Related Materials) : It is recommended (but not required) that students have a ccess to at least one periodical that includes business news ( Wall Street Jo urnal, Bloomberg , etc. ) p. 2 Location of Course Materials : C ourse ma teri als (lecture notes, extra readings , news, etc.) are located on my UMDrive: 0Econ%20Readings/ Course Objectives : Understand the fundamentals of markets; Identify the dete rminants of supply and demand; Understand and apply marginal analysis for both consumers and firms; Appreciate the business environment, including the roles of market structure & business cycles in a global context; Understand business strategy and game theory; and Learn to apply pric ing tactics and strategies Fogelma Learning Outcomes for MBA : This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the M BA degree offered by the Fogelman College of Business and Economics . You should take the time to become familiar with th e overall learning objectives in the EMBA Program: df . Course Methodology : Lectures, group learning, and self development . of Students : In general, you should assist the instructor in creating a positive, supportive environment for learning by staying engaged in the course and actively participating in classroom and online discussions. Student's Expectations of the Professor : W ell - organized and engaging learning experience, r esponse to emails within two (2) business days, and feedba ck on all work submitted within 7 - 10 calendar days. II. Grading and E v aluation Criteria : Final course grades are earned according to the following scale : Point Range Assigned Grad e 90 - 100 Points A 8 0 - 89 Points B 70 - 79 Points C 60 - 69 Points D Under 60 Points F p. 3 Summary of Graded Activities : A ssessed activities and points earned will be distributed as follows: There will be a midterm and a final exam. There will also be a number of case reports assigned as homework or team projects. Your semester grade will rest on the following: Test scores (50%), case reports and homework assignments (40%), and class parti cipation (10%). The Instructor reserves the right to give plus - minus grad es within the grading scale shown in the preceding section . III. Course Topics Self - Study and Review Readings Before the First Day You are required to complete the following readings before the first day of class: Part 1 : Read the first 5 chapters of Naked Economics by Charles Wheelan. Visit my UMDrive here to take advantage of the readings posted there to get more out of the Wheelan book. You may also want to watch this Milton Friedman video that charming story that explains how something as apparently simple as a pencil is in fact the product of a very complex economic process based upon the division of labor, international trade, and comparative advantage. A more modern and up - t o - date version of the same story is here . Part 2 : Review of Supply, Demand and Market E quilibrium : If you have forgotten the basic supply and demand concepts from your undergraduate days or have never had a college - level econ course before, a bit of self - study will definitely help. You can read an Website or read this short piece here . Class 1: Saturday, August 29 Naked Economics - Discussion of Chapters 1 - 5 McGuigan, Moyer, and Harris, Ch. 1 Introduction and Goals of the Firm Assignment 1 Write a short, well - argued essay (about 500 - 600 words) that interprets a real - world business or economic event or experience through the lens of an economic concept or theory (See here for examples) . Indi vidual work and due September 3, 2015 . Class 2: Thursday, September 3 McGuigan, Moyer, and Harris, Ch. 2 - Fundamental Economic Concepts Supply, Demand and Market Equilibrium - A Review Assignment 2 Polo Golf Shirt Pricing, pp. 97 - 98 (Individual work, due Sept. 12 ) p. 4 Class 3: Saturday, September 12 McGuigan, Moyer, and Harris, Ch. 3 Demand Analysis Assignment 3 - Elasticity problems assigned ( Individual work and due Sept. 26 ) Class 4: Thursday, September 17 (online) Online discussion of demand analysis and Q&A for elasticity concept and problems Class 5: Saturday, September 26 Review for Midterm McGuigan, Moyer, and Ha rris, Ch. 4 Estimating Demand Class 6: Thursday, October 1 Midterm (Chapters 1 - 3) Fall Break: Oct. 10 - 13 , 2015 Class 7: Thursday, October 15 McGuigan, Moyer, and Ha rris, Ch. 4 Estimating Demand Assignment 4 - Empirical Estimation of Dema nd (Group work, due October 24 ) Class 8: Saturday, October 24 McGuigan, Moyer, and Harris, Ch. 5 Economics and Business Forecasting Assignment 5 The South Pole Ice Cream Ca se (Individual work, due Nov. 7 ) Assignment 6 - Business Forecasting Project (Group work, due Nov. 19 ) Class 9 : Thursday, October 29 (online) McGuigan, Moyer, and Harris, Ch. 6 Managing in the Global Economy Class 10: Saturday, November 7 McGuigan, Moyer, and Harris, Ch. 7 Production Economics McGuigan, Moyer, and Harris, Ch. 8 - 9 Cost Analysis and Applications Assignment 7 Cost Problems assigned (Individual work and due Nov. 21 ) Class 11: Th ur s day, November 12 McGuigan, Moyer, and Harris, Ch. 8 - 9 Cost Analysis and Applications McGuigan , Moyer, and Harris, Chs. 10 - 13 (Market Structure and Game Theory) Class 12: Thursday, November 1 9 (5:30pm 7:30pm) Presentations: All groups present their forecasting projects (Assignment 6) Class 13: Thursday, November 21 McGuigan, Moyer, and Harris, Ch. 14 Pricing Techniques and Analysis Practice problems for final exam assigned Thanksgiving: Nov. 26 28, 2015 (no classes) Final Exam: Thursday, December 4 p. 5 IV. Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all o fficial course correspondence at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not re gularly responsibility. Attendance: May be t aken at each class start and end times. Th e Instructor reserves the right to use attendance data in determining final grades . The official policies regarding classroom misconduct of the University of Memphis and the Fogelman College of Business and Economics will be enforced. Details of these policies can be found here . A cademic Conduct and Integrity: The official policies regarding classroom misconduct of the University of Memphis and the Fogelman College of Business and Economics will be enforced. Details of these policies can be found following this link: . If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Adding/Dropping : I f you have questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to th is page on the . Inclement Weather: In the event that inclement weather requires the cancellation of classes at T he University of Memphis, local radio and television media will be immedi ately notified. Additionally, T he University of Memphis has established an I nclement Weather Hotline at 678 - 0888 as well as TigerText , an emergency alert text messaging service to students, faculty and staff. This optional service is used in the event of an on - campus emergency, an unscheduled university closing, or a delay or cancellation of classes due to, for instance, inclement weather . Click Here for information on TigerText. Syllabus Changes: The instructor reserves the right to make changes as necessary to this syllabus. If changes are necessitated during the term of the course, the instructor will immediately notify students of such changes both by individual email communication and posting both notification and nature of change(s) on the course bulletin board. V. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance