#http://www.memphis.edu/academiccoaching/quality_enhancement_plan/
Quality Enchancement Plan - Quality Enhancement Plan Academic Coaching for Excellence - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Quality Enhancement Plan Academic Coaching for Excellence Quality Enhancement Plan Academic Coaching Studies Coaches Useful Links Quality Enchancement Plan What is the QEP? QEP Goals QEP Assessment QEP Timeline Home Quality Enhancement Plan Academic Coaching for Excellence Quality Enchancement Plan Quality Enhancement Plan Academic Coaching for Excellence Has Been Chosen as the Quality Enhancement Plan at The University of Memphis! Beginning of fall 2015, the extension of academic coaching will be the Quality Enhancement Plan (QEP) for the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) accreditation. The University of Memphis’ Quality Enhancement Plan (QEP) is designed to improve students’ retention and success by implementing an academic coaching program for students who have been placed on Academic Warning and other student subpopulations who are at high risk for non-retention. The Academic Coaching for Excellence (ACE) program will pair at risk-students with an academic coach for individual bi-weekly meetings throughout a semester. Graduate students specializing in counseling-related fields and selected faculty and staff will receive professional development and mentoring to equip them with the tools necessary to guide students in the development of their academic and career goals. The three interrelated goals of the ACE program are: (1) to help students to develop a clear vision of their own goals and degree path, (2) to assist students in developing skills related to academic success, such as study skills, time management, and self-efficacy; and (3) to connect them to other university resources and support personnel as needed. These goals are accomplished through the following six student learning outcomes in which students will: (1) demonstrate an increase in academic self-efficacy; (2) identify and describe appropriate campus resources for psychosocial and academic needs; (3) demonstrate an ability to utilize technology tools for degree planning; (4) identify a career goal and academic pathway to that goal; (5) express a sense of connection and/or engagement to the institution; and (6) demonstrate adequate progress to degree completion. The QEP topic emerged from campus-wide discussions related to the institution's strategic plan as well as increasing student retention and success. Within this institutional context, the QEP Selection Committee carefully considered several proposed topics, and endorsed academic coaching as the QEP theme based upon the encouraging results of a pilot study that provided academic coaching to at-risk freshmen. Quality Enchancement Plan What is the QEP? QEP Goals QEP Assessment QEP Timeline Academic Coaching for Excellence Video See what other students are saying about ACE Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .