#http://www.memphis.edu/logo/web-guidelines/
UofM Web Guidelines - Brand Standards - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Brand Standards The Brand Brand Elements Stationery Templates Resources Web Guidelines Web Guidelines Content Design Navigation Social Media Meta Content Accessibility Web Content Security Violations Resources Home Brand Standards Web Guidelines Web Guidelines The University of Memphis web site is a major vehicle for presenting our campus to the world. It is part marketing tool, part information source, and is accessible to anyone in the world, anytime, anyplace. As such, official University web sites must present professional, relevant content in a consistently designed, easily navigable context. Following the guidelines presented here will: Build a strong, unified image for the University; Ensure that the content provided on University web sites is relevant and appropriate; Assist in making the user experience pleasant; and Help campus web sites communicate more effectively with their audiences. Content Content is the most important part of a web site — a site's reason for existing. Content on University of Memphis web sites should adhere to the following guidelines. Text Optimization Content displayed on web sites should be written specifically for the web as a medium. Content that has been written for print does not always translate well to the web. The following are some ways to optimize your text for web: Keep it brief. Short sentences without extraneous words work best. If the topic warrants, use the pyramid structure by keeping summary information on primary pages, then linking to pages with in-depth information. "Chunk" content into categories, and display the different content chunks on separate pages or clearly separate them on one page. Make text scannable by breaking text out into bulleted lists, bolding important terms and using headings. Relevance Web users are on a mission to find information. Make it as easy as possible for your users to find information on your site—keep content on an individual web page relevant to its page title. Avoid including additional information that is unrelated to a page's main topic—create a new page and link to it. Do not include links to pages that have not yet been constructed or upload pages that are "under construction." Every page should contain useful information, and pages should be fully formed before they are uploaded and linked. Timeliness Keep your web pages up to date. Remove time sensitive information promptly after it expires. Where applicable, use a date of last update mark so users will know that content on your page is fresh. Appropriateness Remember, your document will be accessible to anyone on the Internet. Your document represents you, your department and the University of Memphis, and it should be professional and consistent with the rest of the University's web sites. On UofM web sites, do not post material that might be reasonably considered abusive, profane, harassing, or sexually offensive. Please see the violations section for information pertaining to consequences. Multimedia (sound, video, animations, Flash) Multimedia on University web sites should be used as a content element, not as a design element. Examples of multimedia as content include: Sound files for instructional purposes Podcasts Interactive training sites Instructional video Examples of multimedia as design include: Introductory Flash "splash" pages Background music embedded in a page Photography UofM web developers are encouraged to use photography on their sites. Optimize your photographs for web viewing by sizing them to the exact height and width at which they will be displayed. Setting size parameters within the HTML code or through a program like Dreamweaver will most likely distort the photograph, increase load time for the page, and could result in your page not displaying as expected. Photography should be appropriate to the subject matter of your web site. If you have photography needs, please contact the University Photographer at rgcsntno@memphis.edu. Design A web site's design can enhance or hinder the user experience. In addition, the design assists in bringing continuity across the entirety of the University's web sites. Color Blue and gray are the official colors of the University of Memphis. The closest HTML code approximations for the official colors are #0D3182 for blue and #888C8F for gray. Logo Usage When the University of Memphis wordmark appears on a web site, it must do so in accordance with Brand Standards . The wordmark is the only official University mark approved for non-athletic and non-alumni web sites. The University seal and the secondary logo must not appear on any web site. The only exception is on the Brand Standards web sites where both marks are shown for illustrative purposes. Fonts The University's web sites use Trebuchet MS as the default font. Navigation While content is the most important part of the web, visitors will not be able to easily access content if the site has poor navigation. To ensure a positive user experience, the following steps are recommended: Use a menu that directs users to the main topics of your site. Do not include every page on your site in the menu, unless your site has a small number of pages. Too many links can overwhelm users. Include clearly marked links to the unit's home page and to the University's home page. Social Media View the UofM Social Media Handbook Meta Content Meta content is vitally important to web sites as this is a primary tool that search engines use to gather results. Examples of meta content are: page title keywords page description alt parameters within &lt;img&gt; tags for images Page titles are required for UofM web sites, and alt parameters within &lt;img&gt; tags are an accessibility requirement. Use keywords and page descriptions in the header sections of web pages to ensure proper indexing and classification by search engines. Accessibility Widely accepted standards exist for making web content accessible, primarily for disabled users. Accessibility allows for people to visit your site with devices other than a web browser, such as a screen reader. For a good summary of things you can do to ensure your site is accessible, visit the Tennessee.gov Accessibility Guidelines site or the web Accessibility Initiative's Quick Tips to Make Accessible Web Sites . Web Content Security Web pages containing or collecting sensitive or confidential information must be hosted on a secure web server (https). The content of web pages viewed on normal, unsecured web server URLs (http) transmit information in clear text and could be intercepted and read by an intermediate party. Examples of University information that must use secure, encrypted web URLs include student IDs, passwords, and credit card information. Violations If it comes to the University's attention that a web page violates University policy (see policies in resources section), then the page's webmaster or author will be notified and asked to remedy the problem. If the problem is not remedied, the University will sever the link between the problem page and the UofM main pages. In some instances, this may entail severing the complete unit link. Resources TBR 1-08-00-00: Use of Technology Resources UofM Policy 1483: Use of Copyrighted Materials UofM Policy 1535: Acceptable Use of Information Technology Resources UofM Policy 1419: Use of University Seal, Logos, and Indicia Brand Standards Guide Web Security Guidelines Important Notice World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) Section 508 Accessibility Requirements Data Security Policy Web Guidelines Content Design Navigation Social Media Meta Content Accessibility Web Content Security Violations Resources Marketing Toolkit Tools for Your Marketing Needs FAQ Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Contact Information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .