#http://www.memphis.edu/tep/
TEP - TEP - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Office of Teacher Education and Student Support Services Admission to TEP Advising Clinical Practice Graduation Teacher Licensure Home TEP Teacher Education Program (TEP) To become a teacher in Tennessee you must be licensed by the Tennessee Department of Education . The state approves programs and sets requirements for which Tennessee institutions can offer teacher preparation programs. The University of Memphis offers many undergraduate and graduate degree programs that prepare students for their initial teacher license in an array of Pre K-12 school subjects . If you have any interest in becoming a teacher we encourage you to click on the Advising button above to learn more about the programs we offer. You can also call the front desk of the Office of Teacher Education and Student Support Services at 678-2377 to schedule an appointment to meet with someone who can assist you in obtaining your educational goals. The State of Tennessee has reciprocity agreements with many other states which means if you move you may have little to do to transfer your license. If you go to you can find the licensure requirements of every state and additional information about salary, reciprocity and other facts associated with being a teacher in the state you choose to investigate. Admission to the Teacher Education Program (TEP) All students seeking initial teacher licensure through the University of Memphis and the College of Education must complete a two step admission process to be accepted fully into the Teacher Education Program (TEP). Students applying to TEP must pass standardized tests and meet other admission requirements (e.g. 3.0 grade point average for full admission at the undergraduate level) to prove they have the potential to be high quality teachers that can pass our degree requirements as well as pass the state's teacher license requirements. The College of Education has very high expectations for both professionalism and performance. Why Be A University of Memphis READY2TEACH Teacher Candidate? READY2TEACH is THE TEACHER PREPARATION PROGRAM AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS. Being a teacher is the most important job society has to offer: the education of its young. A teacher experiences life in a way that no other professional can. If you decide to become a teacher, you will touch the lives of hundreds of people, many of whom you will cherish and always remember. The University of Memphis Ready2Teach Teacher Preparation Program,a nationally accredited program, is looking at the future of PreK-12 education. We have raised admission/exit standards, redesigned our curriculum to be practitioner oriented, built partnerships so our candidates complete their yearlong Residency in the classrooms of the best teachers and our candidates must demonstrate they can teach by submitting a successful edTPA, a nationally scored teacher performance assessment that is modeled after the National Board of Professional Standards. Why be a University of Memphis Teacher Candidate? Because your program will make you Ready to Teach Day 1. Praxis Exams Test dates, state requirements and study help. edTPA Information about submission and score reporting dates, and more. Ready2Teach Tennessee Board of Regents Teacher Education Program Scholarships &amp; Awards A list of scholarships &amp; awards available at all levels of the TEP. Follow Us Online Twitter Facebook Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .