#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/wmst.php
Women's and Gender Studies Certificate - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Women's and Gender Studies Certificate Women's and Gender Studies Certificate Program JOY CLAY, PhD Associate Dean, Interdisciplinary Studies Room 107, Scates Hall 901.678.3370 joyclay@memphis.edu I. Description of Program The Women's and Gender Studies Program offers a graduate certificate program for students seeking work beyond the bachelor's level, whether for self-enrichment or to enhance a master’s or doctoral degree program. Program objectives are: (1) development of interdisciplinary understanding of the social, political, and cultural roles of gender; (2) an appreciation of and the ability to synthesize theoretical perspectives on gender and race from both the humanities and the social sciences. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. Graduate Certificate Program in Women’s and Gender Studies The Graduate Certificate in Women’s and Gender Studies is an interdisciplinary program open to students currently admitted to any graduate program at the University of Memphis. It is also available to graduate students enrolled at another institution, as well as to individuals holding a graduate degree who wish to pursue further professional credentials. The program draws on the expertise of faculty from different departments and colleges, including the Colleges of Arts and Sciences, Education, and Business; therefore, the academic program for each student will be individually crafted in consultation with the Women’s and Gender Studies advisors. The certificate provides recipients with a specific and documented knowledge of Women’s and Gender Studies. Not only an advantage to those pursuing advanced degrees in related fields, the certificate program satisfies the demands of a labor market increasingly oriented toward those trained in managing diversity and services for women. A. Admission to the Program Students currently admitted to a graduate program at the University of Memphis or other university, as well as students already holding a graduate degree, may apply for admission to the Graduate Certificate Program in Women’s and Gender Studies. For students enrolled in a graduate program, a minimum undergraduate GPA of 2.8 is required for admission. Students must apply to both the certificate program and the Graduate School. To apply, students submit: Transcript of undergraduate degree program and transcripts of prior and current graduate study A letter describing reasons why the student is interested in pursuing a graduate certificate in the area of Women’s and Gender Studies and how the program corresponds with prior experience and anticipated career plans GRE scores are required and are an important factor in admission A minimum score of 550 on the TOEFL and a minimum score of 50 on the Test of Spoken English (for students whose native language is not English) B. Program Requirements The certificate program requires completion of twelve (12) semester credit hours. Three (3) credit hours must be met by satisfactory completion of either SOCI 7421 Racial and Social Inequality or SOCI 7422 Race/Class/Gender. Nine (9) remaining hours will be selected in consultation with the Women’s and Gender Studies advisors and prior to enrolling in the class to assure the courses include or treat centrally material relevant to the Certificate students. Course content may vary depending on the instructor and will not always be pertinent to the study of women and gender. Select at least one course from the humanities group and one course from the social science group (courses from graduate programs that incorporate women's and gender issues, such as in the courses below, will be considered for inclusion as an approved elective): Humanities Courses: COMM 6364 Voices/American Women COMM 6856 Women and Film ENGL 7451 Women and Literature ENGL 7469 African American Women Writers HIST 6056 Sex/Desire/Modern Europe HIST 6213 Women/Gender/Latin America HIST 6289 African Women’s History HIST 6831 History of the American Family HIST 6851 History Women in America HIST 6853 African American Women HIST 6863 History of Childhood in America HIST 7060/8060 Women/Gender/Historiography HIST 7061/8061 Studies Women/Gender History MUHL 6013 Women and Music PHIL 6441 Recent Continental Philosophy PHIL 7020 Seminar on Major Figure WMST 7320 Women and Multicultural Expression Social Science Courses: ANTH 6551 Culture/Sex/Childbirth COUN 7723 Human Sexuality COUN 7751 Gender Issues in Counseling COUN 7752 Counseling GLBT PSYC 7219 Social and Personality Development SOCI 7212 Multiracial Feminist Theory SOCI 7410 Sociology of Gender SOCI 7421 Racial and Social Inequality SOCI 7422 Race/Class/Gender SOCI 7853 Gender and Health Students are encouraged to take most of their courses at the 7000 level but up to two courses (6 hours) at the 6000 level are permissible. Because the program is interdisciplinary, at least three (3) hours of coursework must be taken outside of the major department and from the list of courses provided. In order to continue in the program, students must maintain at least a 3.0 GPA. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .