#http://www.memphis.edu/history/focus_afam_southern.php
Focus Area on African-American and Southern History - Department of History - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of History Why History? Undergraduate Graduate Online Faculty HERC GAAAH Home Department of History Focus Area on African-American and Southern History Focus Area on African-American and Southern History The History Department at the University of Memphis is especially strong in African-American and Southern histories. While these are distinct fields of inquiry and students may work exclusively within one or the other, our program provides a unique opportunity to study at the intersection of two histories that have informed each other across the centuries in myriad ways, large and small. The center of our attention is generally the nineteenth and twentieth century U.S., but our collective interests transcend political borders, geography, and time, enabling students to pursue research that is as global and deep as it is African-American and/or Southern. Departmental strengths in the histories of labor, race, gender, politics, women, and the economy open up further lines of inquiry and emphasis. Thus while Southern and African-American experiences represent the focal points of our scholarship, opportunities abound for students to find their own intellectual space between and within two dynamic fields of study that have their own long and tangled histories. That our history program allows for such creative reconsideration of Southern and African-American history owes much to the intellectual strengths and range of our faculty. Study here introduces students to scholars like Beverly Bond, whose research focuses on African-American women in the urban South over the long nineteenth century; Charles Crawford, whose scholarship focuses on local and oral histories; James Fickle, whose research focuses on biracial unions and organizational efforts in the South; Scott Marler, whose research interests include Southern business, economic, and legal history; and Susan O’Donovan, whose research focuses on the productive and political lives of African-Americans in slavery and freedom. Other faculty scholarship transcends regional boundaries. For instance, Aram Goudsouzian’s research probes black popular culture and the black freedom struggle from both local and national perspectives, and Sarah Potter studies African-American family life in modern America and is particularly interested in the interplay between gender, class, and the meanings ascribed to racial difference. Dennis Laumann’s work on colonialism in West Africa, Guiomar Dueñas-Vargas’s work on race and gender in nineteenth-century Columbia, and Andrew Daily’s research on the intellectual and cultural history of the black diaspora in the Caribbean and modern Europe give this focus area a global dimension. Our full-time instructor Colin Chapell rounds out the focus area by drawing attention to the intersection between religion and gender in the American South. History Happenings The department reports, as they occur, significant happenings that involve our faculty, students, staff, and alumni. Newsletter The department newsletter is filled with interesting articles and information about our award-winning faculty and students. Event Calendar Plan to attend events of historical interest. Contact Us Contact the Department of History at The University of Memphis. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .