#http://www.memphis.edu/logo/resources/collateralcodingsystem.php
Collateral Coding System - Brand Standards - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Brand Standards The Brand Brand Elements Stationery Templates Resources Web Guidelines Additional Resources Affirmative Action Statements Software Standards Collateral Coding Standards Brand Guidelines Home Brand Standards Additional Resources Collateral Coding System Collateral Coding Standards Certain University collateral material is required to carry a production code and an affirmative action statement. The production code consists of a series of numerals and letters denoting that the piece is a University of Memphis project, and that project's number, the quantity of pieces printed and the identity of the printer. The preferred placement of this code is .125" to .25" from the bottom right edge of the back cover, and it should be typeset in 5 point Formata Bold Condensed. What is considered printed material for tracking and cost submitting purposes is defined below: Printed Materials used for communicating university related messages and paid for with State funds including: Magazines Booklets/Reports Newsletters Brochures / pamphlets when page count is greater than one Posters Any items that use a 4 color (or full color) process in bulk orders (200+) including: Postcards Flyers Promotional giveaway items printed on paper products What is not included is: Any item not paid for with State funds Stationery Academic-/Course-/Instruction-related materials Promotional giveaway items not printed on paper (e.g. T-shirts, plastic items, bags) Electronic productions (e.g. PDF files, web pages, electronic forms, electronic brochures, electronic newsletters, etc.) The cost of shipping and handling is not to be included Additionally, all collateral is required to carry an affirmative action statement. Placement within the publication is discretionary. The complete text and proper usage criteria of the four approved affirmative action statements are on the affirmative action statements page. Sample Affirmative Action Statement and Collateral Code The University of Memphis, a Tennessee Board of Regents institution, offers equal opportunity to all persons without regard to race, religion, sex, creed, color, national origin or disability. The University does not discriminate on these bases in recruitment and admission of students or in the operation of its programs and activities, as specified by federal laws and regulations. Designated coordinators for University compliance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 are the Vice President for Student Affairs and the Equal Opportunity Compliance Officer. Information in this document will be provided in alternate format upon request. The University of Memphis is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action University. It is committed to education of a non-racially identifiable student body. UOM169-FY1516/1.5M STARR-TOOF PRINTING 670 S COOPER ST MEMPHIS TN 38104 Additional Resources Affirmative Action Statements Software Standards Collateral Coding Standards Brand Guidelines Marketing Toolkit Tools for Your Marketing Needs FAQ Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Contact Information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .