#http://www.memphis.edu/academiccoaching/academic_coaching/
Academic Coaching - Quality Enhancement Plan Academic Coaching for Excellence - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Quality Enhancement Plan Academic Coaching for Excellence Quality Enhancement Plan Academic Coaching Studies Coaches Useful Links Home Quality Enhancement Plan Academic Coaching for Excellence Academic Coaching Academic Coaching Why Academic Coaching For Excellence? The development of the QEP was rooted in the institution’s strategic plan as well as campus-wide discussions related to improving retention and student success. In selecting and developing the QEP topic, the committees considered statewide trends in higher education, reviewed existing institutional data related to retention, and considered continuing initiatives related to academic coaching. Underrepresented minorities, Pell-eligible, and first-generation college students comprise a significant portion of undergraduates enrolled at the University of Memphis. Empirical evidence shows that this student population may be at high risk for non-retention. Successfully navigating college culture is difficult for even the most well-equipped students, but for underrepresented minorities, low-income, and first-generation students, the landscape may be particularly confusing. We believe that academic coaching may be a powerful retention tool for these groups of students as well as for students who are experiencing academic difficulty. The topic selected for the QEP, Academic Coaching For Excellence, directly aligns with the institution’s mission, values, and goals. The university mission describes the University of Memphis as a learner centered metropolitan research university with increased graduation rates among its highest priorities. Of the six university goals, the selected topic directly impacts the ability to achieve the following two goals: 1. Student Success: “Provide distinctive learning experiences that foster lifelong success.” 2. Access and Diversity: “Promote and sustain an accessible, vibrant community that values diversity.” How Academic Coaches Help The University of Memphis’ QEP is designed to enhance student success by improving students’ academic planning skills. The overall objective of the academic coaching program is to establish a relationship between the academic coach and the student that is conducive to the student seeking assistance and gaining guidance for effectively navigating college culture. Before addressing the student learning outcomes, it is important to define what is meant by “academic coaching” and how it will be operationalized on our campus. The National Academic Advising Association (NACADA) defines academic coaching as an interactive process that focuses on the personal relationship created between the student and the coach. The coach challenges the student to think about his or her personal and/or professional goals in order to relate them to his or her academic/educational goals. In the learning process, it is important for the coach to encourage the student to become more self-aware by understanding his or her strengths, values, interests, purpose, and passion. The QEP Development Committee refined this statement to develop the definition of academic coaching for our QEP: "Academic coaching is a one-on-one interaction with a student focusing on strengths, goals, study skills, engagement, academic planning, and performance." Academic coaches at the University of Memphis will address transition and academic issues by helping students develop strategies for learning and life management and by connecting them to other university resources and support personnel as needed. During the initial stages of the QEP, academic coaches will be graduate students and interns drawn from counseling-related fields, and they will meet regularly in one-on-one meetings with students to discuss issues pertaining to academic success. In later stages of the QEP, qualified university personnel will be provided comprehensive training in academic coaching and begin working with students in their respective units. The coaching sessions will help students to develop an individualized action plan focused on, but not limited to, time management, goal setting, and study skills. Coaches will also assist with academic planning by holding sessions where they help students work with technological tools, such as Degree Compass and UMDegree3 that promote course and major selection. The QEP Development Committee proposed a set of learning outcomes based on the objectives of the coaching program. Specifically, students who participate in a least eight sessions of academic coaching during the course of a semester will: 1. Demonstrate an increase in academic self-efficacy. 2. Be able to identify and describe appropriate campus resources for psychosocial and academic needs. 3. Demonstrate an ability to utilize technology tools for degree planning. 4. Identify a career goal and academic pathway to that goal. 5. Express a sense of connection and/or engagement to the institution. 6. Demonstrate adequate progress to degree program. Academic coaching relationships include: Initial assessment to gauge a student’s unique personal situation and academic needs. Items assessed initially include learning styles, habits of working, academic strengths and weaknesses, self or life management skills, and understanding of “how to go to college.” The assessment can be via Intake Interview, paper or online questionnaire, standardized assessments, or a combination of all. Individualized and SMART (specific, measureable, action-oriented, realistic, time-framed) goals at the beginning and end of semester sessions. To meet these goals, a coach works with the student to develop effective strategies tailored to the student’s unique needs. Regularly scheduled meetings to establish a safe climate and a supportive, collaborative relationship. Feedback and Self Reflection about “learning moments” and experiences to help student build motivation and self-efficacy. Academic Coaching for Excellence Video See what other students are saying about ACE Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .