#http://www.memphis.edu/mscm/faculty/mstaffrd.php
MARLA STAFFORD - MSCM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Marketing &amp; Supply Chain Management Welcome Programs Students Faculty PhD Students Publications FCBE Welcome Programs Students Faculty MKTG Faculty SCM Faculty PhD Students Publications Home MSCM Faculty MARLA STAFFORD MARLA STAFFORD Great Oaks Foundation Professor and Chair, Department of Marketing &amp; Supply Chain Management Phone 901.678.2499 Email mstaffrd@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2685 Office BA 302a Office Hours Website Biography Dr. Marla Royne Stafford is the Great Oaks Foundation Professor of Marketing, Senior Research Fellow with the Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics, Chair of the Department of Marketing &amp; Supply Chain Management and Affiliate Faculty in the School of Public Health. She received her Ph.D. from the University of Georgia, her MBA from Rollins College and her BA from the University of Arizona. Prior to joining the University of Memphis in 2001, Dr. Royne Stafford was associate professor of marketing at the University of North Texas. Before entering academia, she held positions with Tupperware Worldwide, Cardinal Industries and Philip Crosby Associates. Dr. Royne Stafford is immediate Past President of the American Academy of Advertising and past editor-in-chief of the Journal of Advertising , the leading journal in the advertising discipline. Prior to that, she twice served as guest editor of the Journal since then served as guest editor of a special issue of the Journal on Effective Health Messages . She has published (or has forthcoming) numerous articles in prominent journals such as the Journal of Retailing , Journal of Advertising , Journal of Advertising Research , Decision Sciences , Journal of Public Policy &amp; Marketing , Journal of the American Academy of Child &amp; Adolescent Psychiatry , American Journal of Public Health , Journal of Business Research , International Journal of Production Economics , Psychology &amp; Marketing , International Journal of Electronic Commerce , Journal of Current Issues and Research in Advertising , and several other publications. In 2008, she was recognized in the Journal of Advertising as the leading publisher in the top advertising journals. In 2009, she received the university-wide Distinguished Research in Social Sciences and Business Award. She is co-recipient of the Award for Best Article in the Journal of Advertising for 2002. She held the Suzanne Downs Palmer Professorship in 2005 and the First Tennessee Professorship from 2011-2014. Dr. Royne Stafford is co-editor of Advertising and Violence: Concepts and Perspectives , (2014), and Advertising, Promotion and New Media , (2005), both with Sharpe Publishing. Dr. Royne Stafford is a member of the Senior Advisory Board of the Journal of Advertising . She also serves as a member of the Editorial Review Board of several journals including the Journal of Advertising Research , the Journal of Current Issues and Research in Advertising , and the Journal of Consumer Affairs . She has served as track chair for the American Marketing Association, the Academy of Marketing Science, the Society for Marketing Advances, and the Southwestern Association of Allied Disciplines and co-chaired the 2014 American Academy of Advertising Conference as well as the 2009 Consumer Culture and the Ethical Treatment of Children Conference at Children's Central at Michigan State University. Research Selected Publications Lister, Cameron, Marla B. Royne, Hannah Payne, Ben Cannon, Carl Hanson, and Michael Barnes (Forthcoming), "The Laugh Model: Reframing and Rebranding Public Health through Social Media," American Journal of Public Health . Royne, Marla B., Susan D. Myers, George Deitz and Alexa Fox (Forthcoming), "Risks, Benefits, and Competitive Interference: Consumer Perceptions of Prescription Drug vs. Dietary Supplement Advertising," Journal of Current Issues &amp; Research in Advertising . Royne, Marla B, Stephanie Ivey, Marian Levy, Alexa K. Fox and Susan Roakes (Forthcoming), “Marketing Active Transportation to School to Improve Children’s Health: Utilizing Parental Perspectives from an Inner-City Environment,” Health Marketing Quarterly . Davis, Brennan, Marla B. Royne Stafford and Chris Pullig (2014), “How Gay-Straight Alliance Groups Mitigate the Relationship between Gay-Bias Victimization and Adolescent Suicide Attempts,” Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry , 53 (December), 1271-1278. Royne, Marla B., Alexa Fox, George Deitz and Tyler Gibson (2014), “The Effects of Health Consciousness and Familiarity with DTCA on Perceptions of Dietary Supplements, Journal of Consumer Affairs , 48 (3), 515-534. Kees, Jeremy, Marla B. Royne and YoonNa Cho (2014), “Regulating Front-of-Package Nutrition Information Disclosures: A Test of Industry Self-Regulation versus Other Popular Options,” Journal of Consumer Affairs , 48 (1), 147-174. Smith, Rachel, George Deitz, Marla B. Royne, John Hansen, Marko Grünhagen, and Carl L. Witte (2013), “A Cross-Cultural Examination of Online Shopping Behavior: A Comparison of Norway, Germany and the U.S.,” Journal of Business Research , 66, 328-335. Royne, Marla B., Jennifer Martinez, Jared Oakley, and Alexa Fox (2012), “The Effectiveness of Benefit Type and Price Endings in Green Advertising,” Journal of Advertising , 41 (4), 85-102. Kowalczyk, Christine and Marla B. Royne (2012), “Are Products More Real on Reality Shows? An Exploratory Study of Product Placement in Reality Television Programming,” Journal of Current Issues &amp; Research in Advertising , 33 (2), 248-266 Deitz, George, Susan D. Myers and Marla Royne Stafford (2012), “Understanding Consumer Response to Sponsorship Information: A Resource-Matching Approach,” Psychology &amp; Marketing . Royne, Marla B., Marian Levy and Jennifer Martinez (2011), “Public Health Implications of Environmental Concern and Willingness to Pay for an Eco-Friendly Product,” Journal of Consumer Affairs , 45 (2), 329-343. Myers, Susan D., Marla B. Royne and George Deitz (2011), “Direct to Consumer Advertising: Exposure, Behavior, and Policy Implications,” Journal of Public Policy &amp; Marketing . Royne Stafford, Marla B., Tim Reilly, Stephen J. Grove and Les Carlson (2011), “The Evolution of Services Advertising in a Services-Driven National Economy: An Analysis of Progress and Missed Opportunities,” Journal of Advertising Research . Bienstock, Carol C. and Marla B. Royne, (2010), “Technology Acceptance and Satisfaction with Logistics Services,” International Journal of Logistics Management , 21 (2), 271-292. Royne, Marla B. and Susan W. Myers (2008), “Recognizing Consumer Issues in DTC Pharmaceutical Advertising,” Journal of Consumer Affairs , 42 (1), 60-80. Bienstock, Carol C., Marla B. Royne, Dan Sherrell and Thomas F. Stafford (2008), “An Expanded Model of Logistics Service Quality,” International Journal of Production Economics , 113 (May), 205-222. Poston, Robin and Marla B. Royne (2008), “Rating Scheme Bias: Using Ratings in E-Commerce,” Journal of Organizational and End User Computing , 20 (4), 45-73. Stern, Barbara B., Marla B. Royne, Thomas F. Stafford and Carol C. Bienstock (2008), “Consumer Acceptance of Online Auctions: An Application and Extension of the TAM,” Psychology &amp; Marketing , 25 (7), 619-636. Information in Industrial Purchasing Decisions: Applying an Economics of Information Framework,” International Journal of Physical Distribution and Logistics Management , 37 (5), 389-408. Rotfeld, Herbert J. and Marla Royne Stafford (2007), “Toward a Pragmatic Understanding of the Advertising &amp; Public Policy Literature,” Journal of Current Issues and Research in Advertising , 29 (1), 67-80. Teaching Dr. Royne Stafford teaches Advertising and Sales Promotion (MKTG 3140) and Services Marketing (MKTG 4230). Welcome Programs Students Faculty MKTG Faculty SCM Faculty PhD Students Publications Majors &amp; Minors See how a MSCM degree can benefit you! MSCM Internship Program Want to gain “real world” work experience related to your academic studies? Look no further! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .