#http://www.memphis.edu/abroad/j1_students/how_to_register.php
How to Register for Classes - Study Abroad - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Study Abroad Programs Students J-1 Students Faculty Funding Resources News About J-1 Students Partner Institutions J-1 Student Application Process How to Register for Classes Student Life Home Study Abroad J-1 Students How to Register for Classes How to Register for Classes After you have been accepted into the University of Memphis exchange program, each incoming J-1 exchange student will receive an email from the UofM Study Abroad Office assigning an advisor. Your assigned advisor will assist you with registration, housing, required materials to submit, and any other questions you may have. Search for Available Classes See what's being offered and begin forming an idea of what you might take. Class offerings are available online, usually one month before registration opens. UofM students should login to the myMemphis portal and search the semester's class offerings using the Look Up Classes feature . If you are not an admitted student, use the Class Schedule Search (Dynamic Schedule) to search classes. Please note that J-1 exchange students can only enroll in classes that are offered on the UofM Main Campus. This will be indicated as "Univ of Memphis, Main Campus" on the class listing. J-1 exchanges cannot take classes located on the Lambuth Campus, the Millington Center, or other off campus locations. J-1 exchange students also cannot register for online classes. Login and Register for Classes Register online through the myMemphis portal as early as possible for the best course selection; once you are in the portal, look for the Registration Tools channel on your Student tab. Also: Refer to the Registration Quick Guide for an overview of online registration. If you encounter problems trying to register, refer to our Errors and Problems page . If you need a permit to register for a particular section, please email a comprehensive list of the classes to your assigned advisor. Each class listed should include the full course information. For example: Principles of Marketing - 80968 - MKTG 3010 - 001. Your advisor will reach out to appropriate academic department to request the course permit(s). Once the permits have been issued you will be notified by your advisor. Print your personal class schedule after you have registered for classes. Check it for accuracy. Look especially at time, days, room, and campus location. Be sure to register for a minimum of 12 US credit hours if you are undergraduate student and 9 US credit hours if you are a graduate student. After you arrive at the UofM, you will meet with your assigned advisor during the orientation day to confirm your class registration. Please note that students who are required to take the TB test upon arrival in Memphis will not be able to register for classes until they have taken the TB test at the UofM student health center. To view a list of countries exempt from the TB test requirement please go to the student health center webpage . If you are required to take the TB test, please arrive on the early arrival date as stated in the arrival information letter sent by the UofM study abroad office. J-1 Students Partner Institutions J-1 Student Application Process How to Register for Classes Student Life Log-In Log-In to your application Search Programs Search Study Abroad programs Scholarships Search scholarship opportunities for Study Abroad Contact Us Email, call or schedule appointments Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .