#http://www.memphis.edu/herff/current/graduationinfo.php
Graduation Info - Herff Home - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Herff College of Engineering Future Students Current Students Alumni Research Departments About Current Students Undergraduate Graduate Home Herff Home Current Students Graduation Info Graduation Information ATTENTION: All students must file their intent to graduate forms by the graduation filing deadlines indicated in the academic calendar. Semester Deadline Spring 15 11/12/14 Summer 15 4/08/15 Fall 15 7/15/15 Students who miss the deadline for the intended semester of graduation will have to wait for the next semester to graduate. Note that the deadline for December graduation is in July when most faculty are not available. If you plan on graduating in the Fall semester, file for graduation during you last Spring semester before the faculty leave for summer to ensure meeting the deadline. Graduating from the Herff College of Engineering In order to be awarded a Bachelor of Science degree from the Herff College of Engineering, a number of requirements must be met. In general, the requirements to be met are: General Education (GenEd) requirements must be satisfied. Some programs may stipulate which courses are to be used to satisfy particular GenEd categories. See your advisor for specifics. Program Requirements for your particular major must be satisfied. Grade Point requirements must be satisfied. In order to graduate from the University, you must have a minimum 2.00 grade point average (overall and UofM GPAs). Residency Requirements, both University and College, must be met. A student will satisfy residence requirements for graduation by earning at least twenty-five (25) percent of credit hours required for the degree at the University of Memphis. At least thirty (30) of the final sixty (60) hours required for the degree must be completed at the University of Memphis as upper division credit in the Herff College of Engineering. A student transferring credits from a two-year college or institution must complete, as a requirement for the baccalaureate degree, a minimum of sixty semester hours in an accredited senior institution. Testing may be required at either the University, College, or program level. Check with your advisor and/or graduation analyst to determine if there are any testing requirements that you need to meet in order to graduate. File Your Intent to Graduate! Graduation is not automatic and you must file your intent to graduate by the deadlines. Check the dates and deadlines calendar for the filing deadline for your intended semester of graduation. You must complete the Intent to Graduate Form through the Commencement Office by the published deadline. You also need to see your advisor to file your College of Engineering Degree Application. Check the Commencement Office web site to fill out commencement attendance cards, diploma mailing cards, check commencement program proofs, get cap and gown information, etc. Pay Any Outstanding Fees !!! If you have any outstanding financial obligations to the University, you will not receive your diploma and you will not be able to request transcripts. Current Students Undergraduate Graduate Visit Herff See what Herff has to offer YOU! Give to Herff Shape the future of engineering today! Herff Faculty &amp; Staff Herff Faculty &amp; Staff E-Day E-Day Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .