#http://www.memphis.edu/fl/newsletter.php
Gazette Newsletter - FL - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures About Programs Languages People Study Abroad Scholarships Home FL Gazette Newsletter Gazette Newsletter Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures November 13, 2015 Student Reminders The German section will have an information session on the summer 2016 study abroad programs in Eichstätt and Bremen on Friday, November 13 at 1:00 pm in Jones 243. There will be an information session on the summer 2016 study abroad program in China next Monday, November, 16 at 12:30 pm in Jones 241. The French section will have an information session on the summer 2016 study abroad program in Lille on Monday, November 16 at 2:30 pm in Jones 249. Study Abroad is holding a Global Race in recognition of International Education Week on Monday, November 16 at 2:00 pm in the UC, Memphis Room A (304 A). Ten teams of 2-3 students will compete in the Global Race for a chance to win vouchers for study abroad. The prizes are a $500 voucher for study abroad for first place, a $250 voucher for study abroad, and a $100 voucher for study abroad. Completed team applications should be turned into 102 Brister Hall on Monday by 4:30 pm. For more information, contact tigersabroad@memphis.edu . The Chinese program will have an essay contest on Friday, November 20 from 1:30 to 2:30 pm at FedEx Café. All students who currently enrolled in CHIN 1010, CHIN 2010, CHIN 3301 and CHIN 4304 are eligible to participate. Events The Department is co-sponsoring the final event in the Marcus Orr Center for the Humanities's Fall Lecture Series . Emanuelle Oliveira-Monte , Professor of Luso-Brazilian and Afro-Brazilian Literature at Vanderbilt University, will present "Obama is Brazilian: (Re)Signifying Race Relations in Contemporary Brazil" on Thursday, November 19 at 6:00 pm in the UC Theater. There will be a reception at 5:30 pm. The lecture and reception are free and open to the public. Thomas Schneider , Professor of Egyptology and Near Eastern Studies at the University of British Columbia, will present "Egyptology in Nazi Germany: Ideology and Careers in a Humanistic Discipline" on Tuesday, November 17 at 7:00 pm in the Fountain View Suite (room 350) in the University Center. This talk is the tenth Annual William J. Murnane Memorial Lecture . There will be a reception starting at 6:15 pm. This event is sponsored by the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology and the Department of History, in association with the Tennessee Chapter of the American Research Center in Egypt. The lecture and reception are free and open to the public. The Japanese Film Festival, organized by the Japanese Culture Club (JCC), continues Friday, November 13, with Wolf Children. All films in the festival will be shown in Japanese with English subtitles in the Psychology Auditorium from 5:00 to 7:30 pm. The last film of the festival will be Robo-G shown on Friday, November 20. Opera Memphis will present Mozart's opera Die Zauberflöte on November 20 and 21 at 7:30 pm at the Germantown Perfoming Arts Center (GPAC). For more information, visit . Faculty Activities The department was very well represented at the recent annual conference of the Tennessee Foreign Language Teaching Association , held in Franklin. Will Thompson , Associate Professor of French and Chair, was coordinator and panelist for a session on "Issues in Post-Secondary Foreign Language Education in Tennessee." He also serves as the TFLTA secretary and webmaster. Errol O'Neil l, Assistant Professor of French, presented "Technologies for L2 Writing: Do They Work?" Jennifer Johnston , Instructor of Spanish, co-presented the Spanish workshop "Hispanic Studies through Film and Literature." She also co-presented, with Dustin Williams , adjunct instructor of Spanish, the session "Engaging in Higher Level Thinking Skills through the Use of Authentic Materials." Finally, Jennifer Johnston was one of six candidates elected to serve on the TFLTA board for 2016-2018. Jean Rittmueller , Adjunct Instructor in Latin, presented "An Analogical Mode of Thought: Metaphor in an Easter Proclamation from Vatican, Biblioteca Apostolica, Reg. lat. 49" at the 3rd Annual Symposium on Medieval and Renaissance Studies at St. Louis University, June 14-17. Jean Rittmueller also presented "The Threefold Death Motif in a praeconium paschale from BAV, Reg. lat. 49" at the 15th International Congress of Celtic Studies at the University of Glasgow, July 13-17. Events Calendar The Department website now has an Events Calendar that lists events by day for the coming week: Please send Gazette items to Melanie Conroy at mrconroy@memphis.edu Events Including Language Fair, Film Festivals, Lectures, and other activities Student Resources Language Media Center, Language Tables, Placement Testing and Tutoring Newsletter Get the News from Foreign Languages &amp; Literatures Contact Us! Email, location and hours for the main office. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/12/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .