#http://www.memphis.edu/academiccoaching/studies/
Studies - Quality Enhancement Plan Academic Coaching for Excellence - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Quality Enhancement Plan Academic Coaching for Excellence Quality Enhancement Plan Academic Coaching Studies Coaches Useful Links Home Quality Enhancement Plan Academic Coaching for Excellence Studies Important Findings from the Pilot and Follow Up Studies Pilot Study 1. Students who attended at least 8 sessions showed significant increases in their GPA. 2. Target students earned more credit hours than a control group of students not participating in academic coaching. Follow Up Study A. Freshman on Academic Warning These students were required by policy to meet with an academic coach on a bi-weekly basis. For those students who fulfilled the requirement of meeting with an academic coaching every other week, they averaged a 2.50 GPA. If a student met with a coach less than what was required (0-6 times throughout the semester), their GPA average was a 1.29 GPA. Therefore, those who met with their academic coach bi-weekly scored 1.21 higher on their GPA than those who did not: Fall 2014 Freshmen on Academic Warning Prior Semester GPA Fall 2014 GPA Met bi-weekly 0.67 2.50 Failed to meet bi-weekly 0.79 1.29 If you were to compare the freshmen AW students from Fall 2014 who received academic coaching to Freshmen AW students from Fall 2013 that did NOT receive academic coaching, you’ll find that the Fall 2014 group averaged a full point better than the previous year: Prior Semester GPA 1st Semester GPA Retention Rate Fall 13 Academic Warning 0.81 1.43 61% Fall 14 Academic Warning 0.67 2.50 83% Academic coaching has a large impact on student success. Not only do student who attend regular academic coaching sessions achieve significantly higher GPA's, but they also stay in school at higher rates. Fall 14 Academic Warning Student's Retention Rates Six or More Coaching Interventions 83% Less than Six Interventions 55% B. ACE Scholars ACE Scholars represented first-time freshmen who were on the lower end of the admissions index. These students were offered the opportunity to meet with a coach on a weekly basis. The assessment on this program found that if the students met with an academic coach at a minimum of 5 times, then their average GPA was a 2.52. If a student met with a coach fewer than five times, then their GPA was a 1.86. ACE Scholars Average ACT Average HSGPA Fall 2014 GPA 5 or more meetings 18.80 2.81 2.52 Less than 5 meetings 19.60 2.71 1.86 Academic Coaching for Excellence Video See what other students are saying about ACE Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .