#http://www.memphis.edu/abroad/students/earning_credits.php
Students - Study Abroad - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Study Abroad Programs Students J-1 Students Faculty Funding Resources News About Students Getting Started Health and Safety How to Apply Deadlines Earning Credits Home Study Abroad Students Students UofM Study Abroad Credit Transfer Policy Faculty-Led Programs Students participating in a faculty-led study abroad program will enroll into the companion course(s) with the CRN provided by the faculty leader prior to the program. Students must enroll into the companion course adhering the standard enrollment period of the University of Memphis for the term the program takes place. Community members participating in a UofM faculty-led program must enroll into a Professional/Continuing Education course. Non Faculty-Led Programs Students participating in a semester or short term study abroad program that is not taught by a UofM faculty member must follow the follow procedure for obtaining transfer credits. Procedure for Obtaining Credit Transfer Approval: Before departure: Students obtain course descriptions of all the courses they plan to enroll in at the host institution and have them translated into English, if necessary. Students take the course descriptions and the transfer credit request form to their academic and/or faculty advisor for approval. Students take course descriptions and transfer credit request to the graduation analyst of their college for approval. Undergraduate students take course descriptions and the Transfer Credit Request Form with the signatures of the academic advisor and graduation analyst to Ms. Dru Welch ( dwelch@memphis.edu ) in the Undergraduate Admissions Office, Room 201 Wilder Tower Building for final approval and submission. Graduate students will submit either the completed Master's Credit Transfer Form or Doctoral Credit Transfer Form to Graduate School Academic Coordinator, Michelle Stout ( mstout@memphis.edu ), Room 215 Administration Building. During the course of the study abroad program: Students should keep all documents relating to the courses from the host institution abroad including syllabi, reading lists, papers, returned examinations, evaluations, and notes from each course. If students do not obtained approvals before departure because course information was not available, they can start the approval process via email after registering with the host institution. Student should request the host institution transcript be mailed to the University of Memphis Study Abroad Office after completing the study abroad program: The University of Memphis Center for International Programs 102 Brister Hall Memphis, TN 38152 After returning from the study abroad program: The Study Abroad Office notifies students once official host institution transcripts have arrived. It could take one to six months for transcript to arrive at the University of Memphis. After students confirm the transcript is correct they are given a copy. The study abroad office then forwards the transcript to Undergraduate Admissions Office or the Graduate School to complete the transfer process. Undergraduate students are advised to meet with Ms. Dru Welch ( dwelch@memphis.edu ) in the Undergraduate Admissions Office, Room 201 Wilder Tower Building and graduate students to meet with Michelle Stout ( mstout@memphis.edu ), Room 215 Administration Building to ensure the transfer process is complete. If any course changes occur while abroad students must complete an updated Transfer Credit Request Form following the process stated above. Please note: After completing the transfer process students' official UofM transcript will reflect that a student studied abroad, the time frame, how many credits earned, and the grades earned. Students cannot request "pass/fail" for the credits earned while studying abroad. Students applying to graduate or professional school should keep in mind that the original transcripts from your study abroad program may be required for the application process. Students should contact the study abroad office well in advance of the application deadline in regards to requesting an official transcript. Students Getting Started Health and Safety How to Apply Deadlines Earning Credits Log-In Log-In to your application Search Programs Search Study Abroad programs Scholarships Search scholarship opportunities for Study Abroad Contact Us Email, call or schedule appointments Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .