#http://www.memphis.edu/philosophy/
Department of Philosophy - Philosophy - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Philosophy BA Graduate People Research News &amp; Events Resources SJP Contact Home Philosophy Welcome About the Department of Philosophy The Department of Philosophy at the University of Memphis is committed to providing students, the profession of philosophy, and the community with innovative and high-quality educational programs, scholarship, and service, which enhance the development of philosophy as a discipline and the quality of the local, as well as global, intellectual environment. Overview As part of the University's General Education Program, the Department strives to imbue students with skills involved in critical thinking and problem solving and an appreciation of their human and cultural heritage. At the Baccalaureate level, the Department provides courses which introduce students to subdivisions within the discipline. At the Masters level, the Department emphasizes specific and applied aspects of the subdivisions which prepare graduates to continue the study of philosophy and enhance their intellectual lives. The focus of the Doctoral program is training professional philosophers who can teach courses and contribute to high-quality scholarly work in at least one of the subdivisions of philosophy. Pluralism For several decades there has been a deep schism in the American philosophical community between "continental philosophy" and "analytic philosophy." That this schism has been detrimental to the discipline is now widely recognized, and the University of Memphis Department of Philosophy, along with a few other philosophy departments around the country, seeks to engender an appreciation of both traditions in our students. The history of philosophy is an important component of our program because it serves as the common language of the two traditions. Diversity In addition to overcoming the divisions of these traditions, the University of Memphis Department of Philosophy seeks to promote inclusiveness (in terms of race and gender) in all facets of the Department. Because feminism and race theory are areas of philosophy where the boundaries separating analytic and continental philosophy are regularly crossed, we have found that our commitments to philosophical pluralism and to diversity complement one another. Adopting this kind of inclusive stance in which a plurality of philosophical methodologies and styles are respected and encouraged is the centerpiece of the University of Memphis program. It is evident in the curriculum, and in the research and scholarly activities of the faculty. The high level of research productivity and the conscientious training of students advance both the reputation of the Department and the vitality of the profession. Goals The goals of the Department include the following: continued development of the existing degree programs, maintenance and enhancement of general education courses, maintenance and enhancement of the national and international recognition of the faculty, service to the profession and the community through sponsorship and contribution to public programs and publications, and, above all, continued development and enhancement of an inclusive environment in which all program participants can thrive. The Department's achievements in cultivating an inclusive and pluralistic environment constitute its uniqueness. Our success in this regard is recognized throughout the global philosophical community, and other programs have attempted to emulate our practices as a result. It is our hope that the students who complete our programs will spread this mission to all other environments they inhabit. Apply to the Graduate Program Want to pursue a MA or PhD in Philosophy? Find out how to apply. Online B.A. Want to pursue your college degree and manage your busy lifestyle? Experience online classes at the UofM. Pre-law Advising Are you interested in a career in the legal profession? Consider a degree in Philosophy! Support the Department Find out how you can support the Department of Philosophy. Follow Us Online Facebook Events Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/28/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .