#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/ccfa/jour.php
JOUR Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning JOUR Courses JOURNALISM (JOUR) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: JOUR 6800-09. Special Topics in Journalism. (3). Intensive study of a single critical issue or current topic. Topics may vary. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours. JOUR 7200-09–8200-09. Special Topics in Journalism. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in online class listings. JOUR 6120 - Advanced Reporting (3) Writing and reporting news and in-depth feature stories about topics, such as government, courts, education, science, trends and community-wide issues. The emphasis is on using public records and national sources as well as key local sources. JOUR 6124 - Comptr Assistd Reportng (3) Advanced use of computer technology and investigative techniques to access, analyze, and develop database information in combination with traditional news reporting. JOUR 6140 - News Design (3) Advanced skills and techniques for design of printed media, including magazine and newspaper design. Emphasis on story and page design, graphics, headlines and other display typography. Approaches to print design presentation on digital platforms. JOUR 6301 - Event Management/HPRM & PR (3) (Same as HPRM 4301). Development, execution and evaluation of events that support strategic communication practices; emphasis on advertising and public relations tactics for non-profit, for profit and communitybased initiatives and organizations. PREREQUISITE: students must have completed 60 hours of coursework. JOUR 6328 - Strategic Adv Campaigns (3) Development of an integrative campaign and its execution in include all advertising and promotion applications. (Sp). JOUR 6421 - Crisis Comm in Public Relation (3) Explores theories and research related to public relations communication before, during and after a crisis; examines the fundamentals of organizational communication, crisis management and strategic planning. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 4410. JOUR 6431 - Music Promo/Public Relations (3) Examines publicity and promotion of artists and events within the music industry. Focuses on music journalism; advanced writing of collateral material, hosting events, planning, preparing and working events for artists in various capacities. PREREQUISITE: students must have successfully completed 75 credit hours. JOUR 6440 - Public Rel Campaigns (3) Application of theory, research data, and problem-solving techniques in development of comprehensive public relations strategies. JOUR 6500 - Web Publish I: html/CSS (3) Introduction of web design software of Dreamweaver; development of website projects; incorporation of target audience analysis and web usability; presentation of website projects from servers. JOUR 6526 - Advanced Digital Imaging (3) Advanced skills and photojournalism techniques for still photography and video; emphasis on action, sports, fashion, food, and portraits. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3526. JOUR 6550 - Web Publish II/: html/CSS (3) Creation and development of website projects; systematic training in writing html codes; focused learning of cascading style sheet (CSS); final production of a multimedia project. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 6500. JOUR 6560 - Interactive News (3) Creation and development of interactive news story for web using Flash and its ActionScript; integrating writing, reporting, designing and presenting audio, video, slideshows elements in production of multimedia story. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 4500. JOUR 6700 - Mass Communication Law (3) Origin and development of legal principles affecting freedom of expression and provisions of laws of libel, slander, copyright, and other statutes limiting communication in fields of publishing and broadcasting. JOUR 6702 - Mass Media/Diversity/Society (3) Advanced study of critical problems faced by mass media, with exploration of complexities that cause them. JOUR 6708 - Mass Media Ethics (3) Classical approaches to ethics presented with their application to the day-to-day considerations that journalism, public relations, and advertising professionals must face in working with employers, local publics, and a larger society dependent on a free flow of accurate information. JOUR 6712 - Mass Media & Cultures (3) International communication, flow of news and propaganda; role in national development and international affairs; growth and impact of global journalism, television news, advertising, and public relations; comparison of media systems. JOUR 6900 - Multimedia VisualCommunication (3) Planning, development, design and execution of a project for print and digital display, including data visualization, illustration, branding, video and photography. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3900, or permission of instructor. JOUR 6920 - Data Visualization (3) Visual presentation of quantitative and spatial information. Examines the planning, design, and preparation of statistical graphs, charts, timelines, diagrams, and maps. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3900. JOUR 7000 - Media Writing/Editing (3) Information gathering, writing, and editing skills necessary for any field within journalism and mass communication through lectures, discussions, and exercises that meld theory to technique; both laboratory writing and field assignments. JOUR 7002 - Pro Seminar (1) Self-paced, online orientation for incoming master's students, addressing skills and issues relevant to graduate studies in mass communication. Grades of S/U, IP will be given. JOUR 7015 - Advanced Media Writing (3) Designed to help students become more precise as well as versatile writers by diagnosing their writing, polishing their grammar and editing skills, and teaching them to write with clarity, cohesiveness, and conciseness. JOUR 7025 - Law Mass Communication (3) Laws and regulations affecting mass media with attention to social and political forces that shape the law; exploration of First Amendment theories as well as the constitutional framework of the legal system; in-depth legal research in the student's selected area of interest. JOUR 7050 - Mass Comm Theory (3) Key concepts and development of theories offered to explain operation and effects of mass communication media; multidiscipline overview of theories dealing with advertising, broadcasting, print, and public relations messages, media, and effects. JOUR 7075 - Mass Comm Res Methods (3) Familiarization with content analysis, survey research, data analysis, and field studies as practiced by reporters, editors, and public relations decision makers; modern research techniques and class project using computer analysis. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 7050 JOUR 7100 - Entrepreneurial Media (3) Examines business models and new media tools that can encourage entrepreneurial thinking and planning in various fields of mass communication, as well as the theory and practices of traditional media management. Subjects will include assessment, organization and strategy, budgeting, decision-making, and other functions in advertising, news, and public relations. JOUR 7125 - Research in Mass Comm. History (3) Examines the scholarship surrounding the major events, personalities, and issues that have shaped the development of mass media, with special emphasis on the history of American journalism/mass communication. JOUR 7209 - Advanced 901 Meeman Strategies (3) Student members of Meeman 901 Strategies, the student-run public relations firm, will gain hands-on expereience by developing creative projects for campus and community clients at the U of M Crews Center for Entrepreneurship. Lecture/Lab. PREREQUISITES: this course is available to select journalism majors from advertising, news and public relations concentrations. by permit only. JOUR 7300 - Mass Comm Literature (3) Review of scholarly publications, books, periodicals, and databases in advertising, public relations, and news media. JOUR 7320 - Mass Media & Diversity (3) Research and analysis of the relationship among mass media, women, and minorities. JOUR 7330 - Social Media Theory & Practice (3) Examination of research and theory on the impact of social and new media on journalism, public relations, and advertising, and applying these core concepts to the real-world use of digital tools. Active use of blogs, RSS feeds, Twitter, widgets, social bookmarking, mapping, and other Web 2.0 tools to produce and curate content and interact with other professionals in the field. JOUR 7340 - Advertising Management (3) How to articulate the strategic process of advertising management, to understand the factors influencing media management decisions, to strategically evaluate functioning advertising management strategies, and identify, formulate and defend advertising decisions grounded in media management issues. JOUR 7350 - Advanced Multimedia Reporting (3) Recent research findings in news reporting, writing and editing principles; practical experience in preparing finished news reports suitable for publication or dissemination in professional-level mass medium. JOUR 7375 - Integrated Communication (3) Integration of advertising, direct mail, public relations, and other strategic communication tools to produce a singular message that reaches every target audience segment; emphasis on application of theories to a particular case study. JOUR 7400 - PR Principles & Issues (3) Contemporary social trends, public relations roles and responsibilities, and applicable public relations theory. JOUR 7420 - Strategic Publc Reltns Writing (3) Examination of strategies and forms of public relations communication, including traditional publicity, owned media, shared media, paid media and promoted media. JOUR 7440 - Orgnztnl Public Reltns (3) How organizations maintain rapport with their publics and the mass media by effectively communicating long-range goals. JOUR 7450 - Public Relations Mgmt (3) Development and management of public relations practice, department, or consultancy through study of planning and decision-making techniques; aspects of public relations practice that differ significantly from other enterprises; development of proposals and presentations; and management of financial and human resources. JOUR 7460 - Health News and Promotion (3) Advanced seminar that examines and critiques the literature on health communication in two specific areas: news about health and its impact on individuals, and health promotion campaigns. JOUR 7600 - Media Internship (3) Work in practical assignments at a media organization under supervision of qualified practitioners. PREREQUISITE: Permission of the department's coordinator of graduate studies. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. JOUR 7650 - Journalism Startup Practicum (3) Students will engage in a semester-long project that will involve building a business plan, developing prototypes or products, creating content, and/or making advertising or public relations materials and strategies for media-related startups. Project will be determined in consultation with instructor. PREREQUISITE: permisssion of the department's coordinator of graduate studies. JOUR 7700 - Individual Research (3) Projects on non-thesis related topics of special interest to the student, ending in a completed research article or report. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. JOUR 7800 - Directed Indiv Readings (3) Preparation of literature review for master's thesis with extensive bodies of writing in topic areas. May be taken to prepare scholarly papers on subjects of individual interest. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. JOUR 7996 - Thesis (1-6) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. JOUR 7998 - Professional Project (1-6) Completion of supervised professional project in student's area of expertise. Repeatable to maximum of 6 hours; only 3 hours applicable to degree. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. JOUR 8025 - Law Mass Communication (3) Laws and regulations affecting mass media with attention to social and political forces that shape the law; exploration of First Amendment theories as well as the constitutional framework of the legal system; in-depth legal research in the student's selected area of interest. JOUR 8050 - Mass Comm Theory (3) Key concepts and development of theories offered to explain operation and effects of mass communication media; multidiscipline overview of theories dealing with advertising, broadcasting, print, and public relations messages, media, and effects. JOUR 8075 - Mass Comm Res Methods (3) Familiarization with content analysis, survey research, data analysis, and field studies as practiced by reporters, editors, and public relations decision makers; modern research techniques and class project using computer analysis. JOUR 8100 - Entrepreneurial Media (3) Examines business models and new media tools that can encourage entrepreneurial thinking and planning in various fields of mass communication, as well as the theory and practices of traditional media management. Subjects will include assessment, organization and strategy, budgeting, decision-making, and other functions in advertising, news, and public relations. JOUR 8125 - Research in Mass Comm. History (3) Examines the scholarship surrounding the major events, personalities, and issues that have shaped the development of mass media, with special emphasis on the history of American journalism/mass communication. JOUR 8300 - Mass Comm Literature (3) Review of scholarly publications, books, periodicals, and databases in advertising, public relations, and news media. JOUR 8320 - Mass Media & Diversity (3) Research and analysis of the relationship among mass media, women, and minorities. JOUR 8330 - Social Media Theory & Practice (3) Examination of research and theory on the impact of social and new media on journalism, public relations, and advertising, and applying these core concepts to the real-world use of digital tools. Active use of blogs, RSS feeds, Twitter, widgets, social bookmarking, mapping, and other Web 2.0 tools to produce and curate content and interact with other professionals in the field. JOUR 8340 - Adv Advertisng Practice (3) Planning and design of advertising campaigns and tactics with primary emphasis on implementation. JOUR 8350 - Adv News Practices (3) Recent research findings in news reporting, writing and editing principles; practical experience in preparing finished news reports suitable for publication or dissemination in professional-level mass medium. JOUR 8375 - Integrated Communication (3) Integration of advertising, direct mail, public relations, and other strategic communication tools to produce a singular message that reaches every target audience segment; emphasis on application of theories to a particular case study. JOUR 8400 - PR Principles & Issues (3) Contemporary social trends, public relations roles and responsibilities, and applicable public relations theory. JOUR 8420 - Strategic Publc Reltns Writing (3) Examination of strategies and forms of public relations communication, including traditional publicity, owned media, shared media, paid media and promoted media. JOUR 8440 - Orgnztnl Public Reltns (3) How organizations maintain rapport with their publics and the mass media by effectively communicating long-range goals. JOUR 8450 - Public Relations Mgmt (3) Development and management of public relations practice, department, or consultancy through study of planning and decision-making techniques; aspects of public relations practice that differ significantly from other enterprises; development of proposals and presentations; and management of financial and human resources. JOUR 8460 - Health News and Promotion (3) Advanced seminar that examines and critiques the literature on health communication in two specific areas: news about health and its impact on individuals, and health promotion campaigns. JOUR 8700 - Individual Research (3) Projects on non-thesis related topics of special interest to the student, ending in a completed research article or report. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. JOUR 8800 - Directed Indiv Readings (3) Preparation of literature review for master's thesis with extensive bodies of writing in topic areas. May be taken to prepare scholarly papers on subjects of individual interest. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .