#http://www.memphis.edu/admissions/pdfs/checklist-4.pdf
STEP 1 - I j oined the True Blue Tigers Mailing List at: Date joined: I visited the International Students Office web site to be come more familiar with issues and processes international students will have to address at : I reviewed options for housing at : I v iewed the Online Campus Photo Gallery at: ns/slideshows/index.htm I r eviewed the Academic Programs that most interest me at: ugcatalog/collegeprog I am m ost interested in: 1 st Choice: 2 nd Choice: I r eviewed the Undergraduate Catalog at: I learned about Campus Life at: STEP 2 - APPLY FOR ADMISSION I r eviewed Admission Requirements at: I r eviewed Residency Information at: ions/international/residency.php I understand that the Office of Admissions will determine my residency based on the complete Tennessee Board of Regents policy at: TBR Re sidency Policy I know the deadline for submitting an application for: Fall is - May 1 Spring is - September 1 5 Summer is - February 1 I understand that early submission of my application is encouraged due to the time required for additional documents to be requested and sent to the Office of Admissions. I am ready to apply at: .edu/admissions/international/apply_intl.php STEP 3 WHAT TO EXPECT I r eceived notification (either e - mail or letter) that my application has been received. Upon receiving an application, I realize it may take 1 - 3 business days before it can be reviewed by the Office of Admissions . I realize that the Office of Admissions requires other documents before a decision can be made regarding my appl ication . I understand that I will receive notification (either e - mail or letter) informing me what is required before an admission decision can be made. I have received my admission decision letter from the Office of Admissions. STEP 4 AFTER ACCEPTANCE I realize that after acceptance as an international student, I will receive an I - 20 form containing my SEVIS number, sent to my permanent mail address. I understand this process is necessary in order to assist me securing an F - 1 visa. I understand that I must have my SEVIS number prior to scheduling a consulate appointment. To expe dite the process of receiving my SEVIS number, I understand that I may e - mail the International Student Office at csnunis@memphis.edu before actually receiving my I - 20 . I have rev iewed the web site detailing w hat to expect when I arrive in the US at: http: // . To get better acquainted with the University of Memphis campus, I scheduled to tour the campus at: . I understand that prior to classes beginning, I must check - in with the International Student Office with my passport and I - 20 in hand. I understand I must attend a half day orientation hosted by the International Student Office. I reviewed the Advisor Locator form at: My advisor is: I understand that I must speak with an advisor prior to registration f or information on recommended courses and course prerequisites . In order to register for class, I understand that I will need to initialize my U of M account by going to: . My activation account code was provided in my acceptance letter. Once activated, I can register at: . site at: . I will have my ID Card made at Orientation or in room 115 Wilder Tower . I have review ed the Campus Card web site for information at: I understand p arking i s included in tuition and fees. payment deadlines at: http:// .memphis.edu/ bursar NOTES: International Undergraduate - Tiger Tracks Check List ADMISSIONS Wilder Tower Room 101 (901) 678 - 2111 Submit your application for admission early . The deadlines for submitting an application are May 1 for fall, Septem ber 1 5 for spring, and February 1 for summer . You will receive an acknowledgement that we have received your application and fee. You will then be notified of required documents needed to process your application. After all documents are received and the application has been processed, you will be notified of the admission decision. PLACEMENT TESTING Brister Hall Room 1 12 (901) 678 - 2028 After admission, some students will need to take a placement examination before choosing classes. All students will be required to take the ALEKS Math Placement Test. The appropriate office will contact you if the test is required. ADVISING & REGISTRATION Advising will be determined based on into. S tudent s will meet with the advisor in the department of their major. S tudents should refer to their acceptance letter for the most current information regarding who they should contact for advising. Registration should take place as soon after advising as possible. You will register for your classes by using myMemphis, the U of M online registration system. Students who register early get the best schedules, so you should complete all admission requirements as early as possible. INTERNATIONAL STUDENT OFFICE Brister Hall Room 102 (901) 678 - 4271 Provides advice on immigration, employment, taxation, cultural adjustment, and other practical issues effecting international students. Responsible for maintaining University compliance with the United States Student and Exchange Visitor System (SEVIS). The ISO coordinates insurance information required of all international students. As an international student you will be required to attend a half day orientation hosted by the International Student Office. FEE PAYMENT Wilder Tower Room 115 (901) 678 - 5579 You will be notified via your UofM email account when your electronic invoice is available online. web site for additional information. International Undergraduate - Tiger Tracks Locator