#http://www.memphis.edu/history/focus_global.php
Focus Area on Global History - Department of History - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of History Why History? Undergraduate Graduate Online Faculty HERC GAAAH Home Department of History Focus Area on Global History Focus Area on Global History Approaching historical study from a global perspective and conducting research that crosses boundaries and disciplines promotes a synthetic understanding of the continuities and transformations that have shaped the development of human societies and cultures. Global history investigates the interactions and exchanges between human societies and incorporates numerous approaches — empires and colonization, the emergence of religions, philosophy, and science, migration and diaspora, slavery, peace and war, economic and technological change, popular culture and media, and ecological and environmental shifts — that can neither be captured nor comprehended within the national borders that have traditionally defined advanced historical study. Global history also embraces multiple temporalities, whether studying one particular moment or the entirety of human history. The University of Memphis’s global history program features a strong base of faculty working in different eras and areas, from ancient Egypt to 21st-century Europe, and representing diverse theoretical and methodological perspectives. Our department’s particular strengths in global history include women, gender, and sexuality; military and diplomatic history; migrations, diasporas, and slavery; economics and global trade; the history of ideas, including the history of religion and the history of medicine; environmental history; and the study of space and place. Catherine Phipps specializes in the history of Japan and the development of its transnational networks in the modern era. Her research and teaching interests include the Japanese empire in Asia, port cities, regional economies, comparative imperialism, and historical geography. As many environmental issues are inherently global, Yan Gao’s work on climate change, geological transformation, disease transmission, natural resource management, and the rise of ecological and environmental ideas explore human-nature interactions within the larger processes of social and economic transformation, creating an ecological niche in the field of global history. Dennis Laumann, a specialist in West African history, teaches courses that examine African history within a global context and writes on imperialism, colonialism, and Marxism. Robert Yelle’s research covers the history of religion, with special emphasis on Hinduism, British Protestantism, and theories of secularization. Beverly Tsacoyianis teaches Modern Middle Eastern History, and fits her regional expertise into the global history focus area through her teaching and research in migration, diaspora, and conflict as well as the cross-cultural transmission of medical, scientific, technological, and religious practices. Andrei Znamenski’s work focuses on Russia, the indigenous peoples of Siberia/Alaska and Mongolia, and their religions; he offers a cross-cultural comparative perspective that integrates the history and anthropology of Europe, indigenous Northern Asia, and indigenous North America. Guiomar Dueñas-Vargas's work explores issues of colonization, state formation, Latin America and the international division of labor, the Cold War, the slave trade and black societies, eugenics, international migration, and transnational feminism and women’s movements. Courtney Luckhardt's research and teaching focuses on medieval cultural and religious history, particularly in Late Antiquity and the early Middle Ages, looking at medieval travel, communication, and connectivity, Mediterranean Studies, and cross-cultural exchange. Andrew Daily works in the areas of French history, the Caribbean, and colonial, imperial, and postcolonial history, with a particular emphasis on the shared cultural and intellectual history of Europe and its empires. Scott Marler teaches the history of the Atlantic World, c. 1440-1888, with a strong emphasis on slavery, as well as the global history of capitalism. Susan O’Donovan works in the area of slavery and emancipation, fields of study that have long defied national as well as disciplinary boundaries. Her current research reveals the transnational lives of enslaved Americans and she offers courses that explore the transatlantic slave trade, women in Atlantic slavery, and emancipation as a historical and global problem. History Happenings The department reports, as they occur, significant happenings that involve our faculty, students, staff, and alumni. Newsletter The department newsletter is filled with interesting articles and information about our award-winning faculty and students. Event Calendar Plan to attend events of historical interest. Contact Us Contact the Department of History at The University of Memphis. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .