#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/collections/hooks-papers.php
Dr. Hooks Papers - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections Special Collections About the Collections Dr. Hooks Papers Fayette County Archives Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks Special Collections Dr. Hooks Papers Dr. Hooks Papers In 1998, Hooks donated his personal papers to the University of Memphis. The collection is housed in Special Collections at the University of Memphis. Archivist, Valerie Jean Love, with the assistance of Deborah Compton-Holt, Sara Smith, and Leah C. Wells, processed the collection. To make this collection accessible to Internet audiences around the world, the Institute is currently seeking to digitize portions of it. The collection spans Dr. Hooks' professional career, including his years as the Executive Director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), from 1977 to 1992, and his tenure as the first African American appointed to the Federal Communications Commission, from 1972 to 1978. The Hooks papers comprise 397 boxes of materials. The collection is divided into two parts, further divided into series and subseries. PART ONE (Boxes 1-222) Series I contains Religious Materials from Hooks' career as a Baptist minister, spanning 1949-1972. These materials comprise records from the two churches that Hooks pastored: Greater Middle Baptist Church in Memphis, TN; and Greater New Mount Moriah Baptist Church, in Detroit, MI, and include church bulletins, correspondence, event programs, and financial records, as well as programs from national Baptist conventions. Series II consists of records from Hooks' years on the Federal Communications Commission, from 1972-1977, and contains correspondence, newspaper clippings, FCC dockets, intern applications, and speeches. Series III pertains to Hooks' years as Executive Director of the NAACP, from 1977-1992, and comprises the bulk of materials in the collection. Series III is divided into six subseries: General Activities; Administrative Files; Financial Materials; Legal Files; The Crisis Magazine Materials; Branch Files. General Activities comprise calendars, clippings, conferences, correspondence, correspondence cogs, events, memoranda, people files, press releases, programs, reports, speeches, subject files, travel documents, and other materials. The General Activities subseries provides information regarding the policies and activities of the NAACP under the leadership of Hooks. The calendars provide schedules by year of Hooks' travel, speaking engagements, and conference schedules. The newspaper clippings contain articles about Hooks, the NAACP, or other subjects of interest to Hooks at the time. The clippings files include a small number of letters to the editor written by Hooks himself. The Conference materials pertain to the NAACP's Annual Convention, including planning memos, programs, speeches, and ephemera. The Correspondence files are perhaps the largest grouping in the collection, and comprise 57 linear feet of incoming and outgoing correspondence, including letters from Presidents George H.W. Bush, Bill Clinton, and George W. Bush, as well as members of Congress and the Supreme Court. The correspondence files also contain help requests sent to the NAACP, (some materials may be restricted), as well as constituent opinion letters, and occasionally hate mail. The correspondence logs provide an account by date of incoming mail received and whether or not a response was sent. The events files contain programs and planning materials for NAACP events and other activities which Hooks participated in. The memoranda files contain NAACP memoranda by year, mostly memoranda sent by Hooks to his staff members. NAACP press releases are arranged by year and document NAACP activities, programs, and political positions. The General Activities series also includes materials pertaining to NAACP programs and initiatives, such as the National Economic Development and Incubator Projects of the 1980s, the National Housing Development Corporation, and youth and college programming. The reports files contain working drafts and final copies of NAACP branch and program reports, as well as executive and annual reports for the organization as a whole. The speech files contain speeches given by Hooks, arranged by year, as well as Hooks' speech research files. The people files and subject files contain additional research files, including materials on affirmative action, South Africa and the NAACP's efforts to end apartheid, racism in sports, and the Rodney King trial, among others. The subject files contain clippings, memoranda, and press releases. Administrative Files comprise Board of Trustees materials, as well as personnel and staff files. The Board of Trustees materials include meeting agendas, memoranda, minutes, and miscellaneous. The Board of Trustees materials also include documents regarding Hooks' suspension by the chairwoman of the NAACP, Margaret Bush Wilson in 1983. The personnel files contain resumes and job applications sent to Hooks, as well as NAACP employee manuals and job descriptions. (Some materials may be restricted.) The staff files contain memoranda and materials pertaining to individual staff members at the NAACP. Financial Materials include NAACP budgets, as well as correspondence and memoranda from the Gil Jonas Company, the consulting and fundraising firm for the NAACP. It also includes fundraising activities, such as Radiothon and Christmas Seals campaigns. Legal Files contain legal help requests sent to Hooks and the NAACP (some materials are restricted) as well as records of court cases which the NAACP was involved with. The Crisis Magazine Materials include correspondence, memoranda, page proofs, and other materials relating to the publication of The Crisis, including a full run of the magazine while Hooks served as publisher, which all contain publisher's notes written by Hooks, and often include photographs and essays regarding Hooks as well. NAACP Branch Files are divided by region: Region I (the West Coast) Region II (New England and the Mid-Atlantic States), Region III (the Midwest), Region IV (the Plains States and Rocky Mountains), Region V (the South), Region VI (the Southwest) and Region VII (Washington DC and surrounding states). The Branch files contain membership lists, event programs, and state conference materials. Series IV pertains to Hooks' activity outside of his professional life, including his involvement in civic and fraternal organizations, and retirement activities. Hooks served as Supreme Chancellor of the Order of Knights of Pythias, an international, non-sectarian fraternal order established in 1864. Series IV also contains materials regarding the founding of the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change at the University of Memphis, in 1996. Series V comprises materials pertaining to Hooks' wife and secretary, Frances Dancy Hooks, and includes correspondence, speeches, and the files of organizations that she was involved with, such as Children with Learning Disabilities. Series V also contains documents regarding the 1989 Miss America Pageant, for which she served as judge. Special Collections About the Collections Dr. Hooks Papers Fayette County Archives Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .