#http://www.memphis.edu/abroad/j1_students/student_life.php
Student Life - Study Abroad - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Study Abroad Programs Students J-1 Students Faculty Funding Resources News About J-1 Students Partner Institutions J-1 Student Application Process How to Register for Classes Student Life Home Study Abroad J-1 Students Student Life Student Life Carpenter Complex Student Housing The Carpenter Complex offers single students the chance to live in apartment or townhouse style accommodations. Wireless Internet service, cable and utilities are included in the rent. Convenient parking, landscaped grounds, private rooms and apartment amenities differentiate Carpenter Complex from traditional residence halls. Carpenter Complex is unique in that it operates year round. The contract for Carpenter Complex is an extended contract, so students may have access to their unit during times break periods. Please visit the Residence Life and Dining Services website for more information. We strongly recommend that students apply for Carpenter Complex housing because it is the only on-campus dormitory that offers extended stay, (i.e. open during fall break, spring break, holidays, etc.) If you choose to stay in a different facility, you will be kicked out of the dorms during any official school holidays or breaks. Please go here for a virtual tour of the Carpenter Complex Housing Facility. Housing Payment All students are responsible for paying their student housing fees. Full payment for your room is due at the time of arrival and can be paid in person, electronically on your MyMemphis account, or via fax. Please visit the UofM Bursar's office website for more information regarding payment method. If you cannot pay your rent in full for the semester, you need to ask the Bursar to put you on an "installment plan." This will allow you to pay your rent over time. There is a charge for this plan. For more information please see: memphis.edu/bursar/fees/installment.php . Please check with your credit card company prior to coming to the US to make sure you can make a payment for the entire sum of your housing. Student Life The University of Memphis has a wide variety of activities , events, services, and organizations falling into the following categories: Arts Cultural Political Academic/Professional Religious Volunteer Service Special Interest Sports Recreation International Student Association (ISA) The International Student Association (ISA) is a student organization that seeks to enrich the University of Memphis (UofM) community by connecting students who are interested in international affairs and learning and experiencing cultures of all kinds. ISA holds a number of cultural and social events throughout the year to allow international and local students to experience all that the UofM and the city of Memphis have to offer. ISA welcomes all students who are interested in interacting with peoples from diverse cultural backgrounds including those from the United States and from around the world. For more information visit the ISA Facebook page . Community Service Opportunities The Students Advocating Service (SAS) organization provides community service opportunities to the University of Memphis community. This includes programs such as Service on Saturday, Tutoring programs, and weekly service initiatives. You can find more information at the UofM community service website or contact SAS at sas@memphis.edu . Student Health Center The campus student health center emphasizes maintaining, restoring and/or improving the physical and emotional health and well being of students at the UofM. The Student Health Center is a walk-in clinic with no appointment is necessary. Student Health Center is staffed with Nurse Practitioners, Registered Nurses, Licensed Practical Nurse, Laboratory and X-ray Technologist, Health Educator, and various administrative support personnel. Living in Memphis There is so much to do and see in Memphis! Such as... • Annual events to attend like Memphis in May , The Beale Street Music Festival , The Delta Fair , various International and art events, and more! • Historic museums to tour such as the Sun Studio , Pink Palace Museum , Memphis Brooks Museum of Art , National Civil Rights Museum , Memphis Rock n' Soul Museum , Graceland , and more! • Be a fan on Memphis sports and watch the Memphis Grizzlies NBA Basketball Team , Memphis Redbirds Baseball Team , and many other teams play! • Visit the parks, gardens or zoo on a nice day such as Mud Island River Park , Memphis Zoo , Shelby Farms Park , Botanic Gardens , and more! • Watch a play at the famous Orpheum Theater , or see an Opera of Symphony at many of the other theaters around Memphis. For information on what's going on with Memphis music, food, arts, events, sports, people, and culture visit the I Love Memphis Blog , choose901.com , and the City of Memphis Visitors Website . Travel Approval All travel for J-1 exchange students, when not staying overnight in your assigned housing, must be pre-approved by the Study Abroad Office. If you are staying in Memphis but not sleeping in your assigned housing, please submit the online travel approval form two days in advance. If you are traveling outside of Memphis please submit the travel approval form one week in advance. International Travel: J-1 exchange students should check with the Study Abroad Office before making plans to travel outside the United States. Students are not permitted to travel to any country on the US Department of State Travel Warning List . All students who will be traveling outside the United States must bring their original DS 2019 to their advisor for a travel validation signature. J-1 Students Partner Institutions J-1 Student Application Process How to Register for Classes Student Life Log-In Log-In to your application Search Programs Search Study Abroad programs Scholarships Search scholarship opportunities for Study Abroad Contact Us Email, call or schedule appointments Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .