#http://www.memphis.edu/management/faculty/pwright.php
PETER WRIGHT - MGMT - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Management Welcome Programs Courses Faculty PhD Students Research FCBE Faculty Welcome Programs Courses Faculty PhD Students Research Contact Us Home MGMT Faculty PETER WRIGHT PETER WRIGHT Professor, Department of Management Phone 901-678-2434 Email pwright@memphis.edu Fax 901-678-2685 Office BA 318 Office Hours Before and after class and by appointment Website Biography Peter Wright holds the University of Memphis Endowed Chair of Excellence in Free Enterprise Management. He received his M.B.A. and Ph.D. from the Louisiana State University. He served as the owner and managing director of an industrial component firm with transactions across North America, Europe, Middle East, and Far East. He has consulted with Union Carbide, Eastman Kodak, Alcoa, as well as privately held firms. Professor Wright has published management and strategic management textbooks. His publications appear in leading journals, such as Strategic Management Journal, Academy of Management Journal, Academy of Management Review, Academy of Management Executive, Academy of Management Perspectives, Journal of Management, Strategic Organization, Harvard Business Review, Journal of Banking and Finance, Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science , among others. His writings have been published by Harvard Business School Press, Allyn and Bacon, Prentice Hall, Dame Thomson, Business Publications, Penguin, Hawthorn, Elsevier Science, Irwin, University of Southern California Press, Pearson, and Sage, among others. His academic publications have been reported by the CBS Television Evening News, the Washington Post, the Wall Street Journal, Business Week, the Economist, the Commercial Appeal , among others. His current research encompasses corporate governance, agency theory, tournament theory, valuation of firm investments, among others. Professor Wright is a member of the Academy of Management and the Strategic Management Society. Research Representative Publications Krug, J. A., Wright, P., &amp; Kroll, M., "Top Management Turnover Following Mergers &amp; Acquisitions: Solid Research To Date But Much To Be Learned," Academy of Management Perspectives , 28, 2014, pp. 147-163. Wright, P., Krug, J. A. &amp; Ma, R., "Levels of Resources and Enterprise Outcomes: The Case of Smaller Firms Based Abroad," Journal of Business and Entrepreneurship , 24: 2, 2013, pp. 69-78. Nelson, T., Singh, K., Elenkov, D., Ma, R., Krug, J., Davis, B., and Wright, P., "Theoretical Contributions to Governance of Samller Firms," Journal of Business and Entrepreneurship , 25, 2013, pp. 21-42. Elenkov, D., Wright, P., Pimentel-Kutz, J., Naoumova, L., &amp; Nabirukhina, M., "Subcultures in a Country, Work Values and Preferred Workplace Rewards: New Evidence from Russia," Journal of Strategic and International Studies , 13, 2013, pp. 32-43. Wright, P., Kroll, M., Walters, B. &amp; Ma, R., "Intersection of Upper Echelons and Corporate Governance: Ramifications for Market Response to Acquisition Announcements," Journal of Managerial Issues , 24: 4, 2013, pp. 433-449. Bryant, P., Fabian, F., Kinnamon, E. &amp; Wright, P., "Tailoring Entrepreneurial Education: Exploring Components of Entrepreneurship Education for Underrepresented Groups," Journal of Business and Entrepreneurship , 23: 2, 2012, pp. 1-24. Jackson, W.T., Elenkov, D., Davis, B., &amp; Wright, P., "Psychological Contracts in Enterprises," Journal of Organizational Culture, Communications and Conflict , 16: 1, 2012, pp. 133-154. Walters, B., Kroll, M., &amp; Wright, P. "The Impact of TMT Board Members Control and Environment on Post - IPO Performance," Academy of Management Journal , 53: 3, 2010, pp. 572-595. Wright, P., Kroll, M., Mukherji, A., &amp; Pettus, M. “Do the Contingencies of External Monitoring, Ownership Incentives, or Free Cash Flow Explain Opposing Firm Performance Expectations?” Journal of Management and Governance , 2009. Kroll, M., Walters, B., &amp; Wright, P. “Board Vigilance, Director Experience, and Corporate Outcomes,” Strategic Management Journal , 2008, pp. 363-382. Walters, B., Kroll, M., &amp; Wright, P. “CEO Ownership and Effective Boards: Impacts on Firm Outcomes,” Strategic Organization , 2008, pp. 259-283. Wright, P., Kroll, M., Krug, J., &amp; Pettus, M. Influences of Top Management Team Incentives on Firm Risk Taking, Strategic Management Journal , 2007, pp. 81-89. Lado, A., Boyd, N., Wright, P., &amp; Kroll, M., “Paradox and Theorizing Within the Resource-Based View,” Academy of Management Review , 2006, 31, pp. 115-131. Wright, P., Kroll, M., Lado, A., &amp; Elenkov, D. "Influences of Relative Rewards of Top Managers of Firm Performance," Strategic Organization , 3, 2005, pp. 311-335. Elenkov, D., Judge, W., &amp; Wright, P. "Strategic Leadership and Executive Innovation Influence: An International Multi-Cluster Comparative Study," Strategic Management Journal , 26, 2005, pp. 665-682. Wright, P., Ferris, S., Vaughn, M., &amp; Jackson, W. "Are Competitors Advantageous or Disadvantageous in Consolidated Versus Fragmented Industries?," Academy of Strategic Management Journal , 3, 2004, pp. 47-64. Chung, K., Wright, P., &amp; Kedia, B., “Corporate Governance and Market Valuation of Capital and R &amp; D Investments,” Review of Financial Economics , 2003, pp. 161-172. Desai, A., Wright, P., &amp; Chung, K., “Impact of Changes in Strategic Investments on Shareholder Returns: The Role of Growth Opportunities,” Journal of Applied Business Research , 2003, 19, pp.41-56. Wright, P., Kroll, M., &amp; Elenkov, E. “Acquisition Returns, Increase in Firm Size and Chief Executive Officer Compensation: The Moderating Role of Monitoring,” Academy of Management Journal, 2002, pp. 599-609. Wright, P., Kroll, M., Lado, A., &amp; Van Ness, B. “The Structure of Ownership and Corporate Acquisition Strategies,” Strategic Management Journal , 2002, 22, pp. 41-53. Wright, P., &amp; Kroll, M. “Executive Discretion and Corporate Performance as Determinants of CEO Compensation, Contingent on External Monitoring Activities,” Journal of Management and Governance , 2002, pp. 189-214. Wright, P., Ferris, S., &amp; Sarin, A., “An Agency Comparison of the Keiretsu and the Japanese Independent Firm,” Academy of Strategic Management Journal , 2002, 1, pp. 1-18. Kroll, M., Toombs, L., &amp; Wright, P., “Napoleon’s Tragic March Home from Moscow: Lessons in Hubris,” Academy of Management Executive, 2000, 14, pp. 117-128. Kroll, M., Wright, P., &amp; Heiens, R., “The Contribution of Product Quality to Competitive Advantage: Impacts on Systematic Variance and Unexplained Variance in Returns,” Strategic Management Journal , 1999, 20, pp. 375-384. Chung, K.H., Wright, P., Charoenwong, C., “Investment Opportunities and Market Reaction to Capital Expenditure Decisions,” Journal of Banking and Finance , 1998, 22, pp. 41-60. Wright, P., Kroll, M., &amp; Parnell, J., Strategic Management: Concepts and Cases , Prentice Hall (4th ed.), 1998. Wright, P. &amp; Ferris, S., “Agency Conflict and Corporate Strategy: The Effect of Divestment on Corporate Value”, Strategic Management Journal , 1997, 18, pp. 77-83. Kroll, M., Wright, P., Toombs, L., &amp; Leavell, H., “Form of Control - - A Critical Determinant of Acquisition Performance and CEO Rewards”, Strategic Management Journal , 1997, 18, pp. 85-96. Albanese, R., Franklin, J., &amp; Wright, P., Management , Dame/Thomson Learning, 1997. Wright, P., Ferris, S., Sarin, A., &amp; Awasthi, V., “The Impact of Corporate Insider, Blockholder, and Institutional Equity Ownership on Firm Risk Taking”, Academy of Management Journal , 1996, 39, 2, pp. 441-463. Wright, P., Ferris, S., Hiller, J., Kroll, M., “Competitiveness Through Management of Diversity: Effects on Stock Price Valuation,” Academy of Management Journal , 1995, 38, 1, pp. 272-287. Teaching Teaching areas include strategic management at the Ph.D. seminar, M.B.A., and undergraduate levels. Professor Wright has chaired the dissertation committees of fifteen Ph.D. students and served on the committees of six additional Ph.D. students. Service Service to the University, the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics, and to the Department of Management: University President's Chairs of Excellence Council Chair and committee member of University College Students Member of University Council for Graduate Studies Faculty Senate Representative Chair, College Ph.D. Program Committee Member of Teaching Excellence Fellowship Selection Committee Member of College of Business Teaching Excellence Award Committee Member of College of Business Tenure and Promotion Committee Member of College of Business Roles and Rewards Committee Chair, Department of Management Tenure and Promotion Committee Chair, Search Committee for Recruiting Faculty in Strategic Management Member of Management Graduate Programs Committee Service to Management Discipline Ad hoc reviewer, Strategic Management Journal Ad hoc reviewer, Academy of Management Journal Ad hoc reviewer, Academy of Management Review Ad hoc reviewer, Administrative Science Quarterly Ad hoc reviewer, Journal of Management. Ad hoc reviewer, Journal of Business Research Ad hoc reviewer, Journal of Management Studies Ad hoc reviewer, Southern Management Association Reviewer, National Academy of Management Editorial Board, American Business Review. Special Issues Editor, Business Perspectives Associate Editor, Journal of Management in Practice Editorial Board, Journal of Business Strategies Member, Strategic Management Society Member, Academy of Management Outside reviewer, Tenure &amp; Promotions decisions for various universities Faculty Welcome Programs Courses Faculty PhD Students Research Contact Us MGMT News &amp; Events Learn about current events happening in our department! Research Colloquia Keep up with the latest Management academic research in our upcoming seminars. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .