#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/pdfs/ms-school-admin-and-supervision.pdf
1 LEADERSHIP AND POLICY STUDIES MASTER'S DEGREE INFORMATION SCHOOL ADMINISTRATION AND SUPERVISION DEPARTMENT OF LEADERSHIP COLLEGE OF EDUCATION UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS BALL HALL 123 (901) 678 - 2369 VISIT OUR WEB SITE: leadership.memphis.edu A TENNESSEE BOARD OF REGENTS INSTITUTION AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION UNIVERSITY Revised 0 8 / 28 /14 ; maintained by Dr. Larry McNeal 2 School Principal, Assistant Principal, and School Supervisor Introduction The following information deals with the Master of Science (M. S.) in Leadership and Policy Studies with a concentration in School Administration and Supervision (SAS), which is offered by the Department of Leadership of the College of Education. Job opportunities Persons with this degree can be employed as a principal or assistant principal of an elementary, middle , or high school; as a supervisor in an elementary, middle, or high school ; or as a central office administrator. What is the work like? They have the opportunity to affect the lives of students, their parents, teachers, and other administrators. The number of persons supervised depends on the size of the school to which a person is assigned. Successful completion of responsibilities could lead to assignment to larger schools to positions in area offices, such as those in the Memphis City Schools or to positions in the office of the superintendent. Why is the COE/program nam e the best place to start? The program in following national standards and additional stipulations from the Tennessee Board of Education. Its professors are involved in the establishment of programs that are modeled after national programs and are exemplars to other institutions. Professors are on the creative edge of leadership theory. Their efforts are accredited the Tennessee Board of Education and NCATE, and there is conditional accreditation by the Educational Leadership Constituent C ouncil (ELCC). Students are involved with fieldwork and courses that deal with an introduction to educational leadership, school business management, school law, the principalship, the supervisory process, educational research, participatory governance, education and community, leadership exploration seminar, and race, ethnicity, and gender. The capstone courses that place students in the field are an internship and a culminating experience. Students completing this degree (36 hours) will have developed skills affecting leadership, change, and policy formation; will have had opportunities to analyze data and its relationship to organizational effectiveness; and will have achieved a vision of effectiveness for schooling that is shared by experts in the field. 3 How do our faculty work in this career community? Faculty members supervise all of the fieldwork embedded in the coursework and supervise the internships of all degree recipients. They are actively engaged in formative and summative ev aluation procedures administered throughout the program. One faculty member acts as a coordinator of each cohort. Faculty members have had experience have served in the role of principal, associate superintendent of schools, and s uperintendent of schools. Alumni profiles The following persons represent hundreds of students who have completed courses, achieved degrees, and hold leadership positions in the service area. Ms. Detris Anderson, Principal, Lucy Elementary School, Shelby County Schools Dr. Courtney Fee, Principal, Munford High School, Tipton County Schools Special Program Offered The Center for Urban School Leadership (CUSL) sponsors the Memphis Leadership Fellows Program (MLFP) Program, a yearlong leadership development program. CUSL has partnered with districts throughout the West Tennessee region, including, Shelby County Schools, Tipton County Schools, Fayette County Schools, Lauderdale County Schools, Jackson - Madison County Schools, and Memphis City Schools. Selection to MLFP requires nomination from a sponsoring school district. New Redesign Masters Program The Tennessee State Board of Education has approved a new Tennessee Learning Centered Leadership policy which mandates numerous and significant changes in the wa y that future educational administrators are licensed in the State of Tennessee. The new licensing program policy begins for new students at every Tennessee university in August 2009. The Redesigned Masters Program at The University of Memphis is uniquely organized to incorporate an internship under the guidance of a successful school leader, coaching from a business leader on management issues, coursework, and the completion of a project that addresses a meaningful issu e. The Redesigned Masters Program is sponsored by the university, local school districts, and community business leaders. Participants, nominated by the superintendents of participating school districts, emerge with a degree in school leadership and Tennessee certification for beginning administrators. Candidates in the Program are guaranteed a scholarship covering tuition and fees. The Redesigned Masters Program is particularly appropriate for individuals who 4 have demonstrated potential for lead ing programs of enhanced instruction, school reorganization, effective management, and participatory decision making. Activities are provided through the following components: a cohort group, intensive experiential learning orientation, coursework and seminar, and team problem solving. Faculty program coaches work with candidates to promote personal growth and development. Business persons coach participants in leadership and management practices and assist in networking between the education and business sectors. Exemplary practicing principals/administrators serve as site mentors for the clinical field experiences and act as mentor faculty for instructional activities. To be eligible, all candidates must be employed as teachers or hold other certified positions in their nominating districts. During the final semester of the program, internships are completed with exemplary leaders in schools, central offices, and local business and community organizations. Admission to the Program Admission to the program requires nomination by the sponsoring school district, acceptance at the university level, and acceptance at the departmental level. Graduate School Requirements 1. An application to the Graduate School: . When filling it out, indicate that the major interest is Leadership and Policy Studies and that the concentration is School Administ ration and Supervision. Complete the application and submit it. A fee will be charged at the end of the application process. All requirements for admission or readmission to the university must be completed before registration is authorized. 2. An official report of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) score. Test scores are used to make decisions about admission. The written portion of the exam is required. For questions regarding GRE testing or other information regarding the Graduate School, call Graduate School Admissions at 901 - 678 - 2911. The Testing Center number at the university is 901 - 678 - 2428. [Verbal & Quantitative Scores] 3. Official transcripts of all prior undergraduate and graduate courses. After the required materials have been received by the Graduate School, a Departmental Recommendation Form will be sent to the Department of Leadership for evaluation. Selection Procedure Each nominated candidate submits an application packet, which includes a work artifact, resume, transcripts, GRE scores, letter of application, letter of nomination, 5 and letters of recommendations. The application procedure involves interview questions, a writing sample, and a simulation activity; the interview is conducted by a team composed of participating school districts and the School Administration and Supervision faculty. The deadline date for application packets to be received is usually set by the Department for June of each year. Scores are tabulated for each candidate and submitted to the sponsoring district. Final candidate selection decisions are made by the sponsoring districts. Please send all required information to: Ms. Cathy Wilhelm Ball Hall 123 Department of Leadership University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 - 3570 901 - 678 - 2797 ; FAX 901 - 678 - 0505 For additional information call or email: Dr. Larry McNeal, Professor, Program Coordinator, and Chair Lmcneal1@memphis.edu Ms. Cathy Wilhelm, MS., Department Administrator cwilhelm@memphis.edu Admission Notification Graduate Admissions will be notified about the decisions made by the department and the sponsoring school district. Graduate Admissions will send the official letter of admission. The department will send a letter to all applicants concerning the admission decisions. It may precede the letter from Graduate Admissions. The letter from the department will also include the name and instructions concerning the next steps to be taken. Program requirements 1. A minimum of 36 semester hours is required. 2. Students will take 9 hours of the departmental core: LEAD 7000, LEAD 7100, and EDPR 7521; and 27 required hours in the concentration. 3. Courses required are the following: LEAD 7004 and 7210; and LDPS 7110, 7120, 7131, 7140, 7141, 7150, 7330. 4. The following policies in the Department of Leadership are exceptions to the policies of the Graduate School: a. A maximum of 6 hours of transfer credit can be counted toward the 6 concentration in School Administration and Supervision. b. A maximum of 6 hours of course work can be validated in the concentration in School Administration and Supervision. Comprehensive Examination Each candidate will co mplete a comprehensive examination during the final semester of her/his program. All coursework, except for the culminating experience, must be completed before taking the examination. Licensure Application Information After the course work is completed, the applicant is responsible for assembling the following information to be submitted with the licensure application to Dr. Sutton Flynt, Licensing Agent, Ball Hall, Room 202, University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152. Dr. Flynt will forward the application to the state licensing agency. 1. The application (gray and yellow sheets); pick up in Ball 123 2. Praxis Exam results: the original copy, no photocopies accepted 3. An official transcript from each university attended with coursework not already on file with the Tennessee State Department of Education 4. A letter of employment stating that the applicant has been employed as a teacher for at least the past eight months 5. Evidence of a current teaching certificate