#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/esci.php
Earth Sciences - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Earth Sciences Earth Sciences DANIEL LARSEN, PhD Chair Room 111, Johnson Hall 901.678.4571 ANDREW M. MICKELSON, PhD Graduate Coordinator 901.678.4505 amicklsn@memphis.edu I. The Department of Earth Sciences offers graduate programs leading to the Master of Arts degree with a major in Earth Sciences and the Master of Science degrees with a major in Earth Sciences and concentrations in Archaeology, Geography, Geology, Geophysics, or Interdisciplinary Studies; the Doctor of Philosophy degree with a major in Earth Sciences; and a Graduate Certificate in Geographic Information Systems. A. Program Admission Admission to both the Graduate School and the department is required. To meet departmental requirements for admission, students must submit a letter of intent stating research interests and previous research experience, three letters of recommendation, and complete the GRE. Applicants are expected to have a bachelor's degree in geography; geological sciences; geophysics; some branch of the social, natural or physical sciences; computer science; engineering; or mathematics. Admission will be based upon a number of factors including academic records, GRE scores, work or research experience, and career plans as described in the letter of intent. Applicants to the PhD program should make direct contact with one or more faculty members to discuss mutual research interests. Admission to the program is not automatic upon meeting minimum departmental admission requirements. Students are selected from the pool of qualified applicants and the number selected depends on several factors including adequate faculty supervision, the availability of financial aid if requested, and the needs of the program. NOTE: Deadline for completion of submission is January 15 for the following fall semester and November 1 for the following spring semester. Summer school admission must be completed by April 1 for entrance into the Graduate School and the departmental program. Late submissions may be considered on an individual basis, but will normally be deferred to the following semester. Students seeking a PhD degree are placed at the time of their admission into either the masters or PhD program by the faculty, based upon careful examination of their academic background, demonstrated abilities, and stated preferences on bypassing the masters. If a student is admitted to the masters degree program, the degree must be obtained before proceeding to the PhD unless a bypass petition is submitted to the Graduate Coordinator and approved by the DES Graduate Program Committee prior to the end of the student's first year of graduate study. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MA Degree Program in Earth Sciences Program objectives are the attainment and development of depth of the Earth Sciences knowledge, and the ability to apply this knowledge to student's career development, in at least one of the following areas: (1) geography; (2) geology; (3) archaeology; (4) environmental sciences; (5) interdisciplinary studies. Students pursuing an MS degree may not apply to switch to the MA degree until their third year in the Earth Sciences program. A. Program Requirements Students may be required to make up deficiencies as determined by the student's graduate committee. Completion of ESCI 7000, and at least one of the following: ESCI 7301, 7310, 7701, 7800, and 7801. Additionally, other courses within Earth Sciences and/or outside the department as approved by the advisory committee to total a minimum of 36 graduate credits. Satisfactory completion of 3 credit hours of ESCI 6700 (Earth Sciences Internship) or ESCI 7990 (research in Earth Sciences). A minimum of 70% of the total required hours must be 7000 courses. No more than a total of 12 hours of workshop courses and independent study courses may be applied to a Master's degree. Successful completion of a written Comprehensive Examination. A written examination will be administered by the student's graduate committee after successful completion of 18 graduate credit hours of coursework, as determined by the student’s graduate committee. The examination will not exceed three hours in length and will cover basic material presented in courses taken since the student's enrollment in the DES graduate program. Successful completion of a public oral presentation regarding professional experience or internship as it links to the earth sciences. III. MS Degree Program in Earth Sciences Program objectives are: (1) ability to solve advanced Earth Science problems involving observations and measurements in the field and the laboratory; (2) attainment of advanced knowledge of Earth Science concepts and their application in one or more subdisciplines; and (3) preparation for professional employment or for entering a doctoral program in an Earth Science or a related field. A. Program Requirements A student may be required to make up deficiencies as determined by the student's graduate committee. Completion of at least 3 semester hours of graduate seminar coursework. Completion and successful defense of a thesis (ESCI 7996): at least 6 semester hours. NOTE: Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. Completion of ESCI 7000 and at least 1 of the following courses: ESCI 7310, ESCI 6515, ESCI 6521, ESCI 7801, ESCI 7301, or ESCI 6101. At least 22 hours of coursework at or above the 7000-level (including thesis). Successful completion of a written Comprehensive Examination. A written examination will be administered by the student's graduate committee after the end of the second semester and before the end of the third semester, as determined by the student's graduate committee. The student must have completed 18 graduate credit hours prior to taking the comprehensive examination. The examination will not exceed three hours in length and will cover basic material presented in courses taken since the student's enrollment in the DES graduate program. Concentration requirements: Archaeology concentration: Completion of 12 semester hours of archeology graduate coursework. It is recommended that these 12 hours include courses in archaeological theory, methods, and fieldwork. Completion of elective graduate coursework, in consultation with the student's graduate committee, to obtain a minimum total of 32 semester hours. Geography concentration: Completion of 12 semester hours of geography graduate coursework. It is recommended that these 12 hours include courses in: environmental and earth sciences; human-economic geography, and geographic techniques. Students not submitting acceptable undergraduate credit in quantitative methods or statistics will be required to take a quantitative methods or statistics course. Completion of elective graduate coursework, in consultation with the student's graduate committee, to obtain a minimum total of 32 semester hours. Geology concentration: Completion of 12 semester hours of geology graduate coursework Completion of elective graduate coursework, in consultation with the student's graduate committee, to obtain a minimum total of 32 semester hours. Geophysics concentration: Completion of 12 semester hours of geophysics graduate coursework. Completion of elective graduate coursework, in consultation with the student's graduate committee, to obtain a minimum total of 32 semester hours. Interdisciplinary Studies concentration: Completion of 12 semester hours of archaeology, geography, geology or geophysics coursework. Completion of elective graduate coursework, in consultation with the student's graduate committee, to obtain a minimum total of 32 semester hours IV. PhD Degree Program in Earth Sciences Program objectives are: (1) understanding in at least one of the major disciplines of earth science and principles and concepts of that discipline with a more in-depth knowledge in the chosen research focus or foci; (2) expertise in experimental design, data analysis, and oral and written presentation of research results; and (3) competitive for professional positions in the field earth sciences. A. Nature of the Program The doctorate prepares the student for a research career, primarily by establishing a broad knowledge of one of the basic areas of geography, geology, or geophysics, and through the experience of successfully completing a dissertation of original research. The prescribed examinations will permit the student to demonstrate mastery of his or her chosen fields of expertise. The individual curriculum will reflect the student's preparation and the demands of the dissertation topic selected, and will assure a strong general knowledge of Earth Sciences. B. Program Requirements Completion of a minimum of 72 semester hours beyond the bachelor's degree or a minimum of 40 semester hours beyond the masters degree. The courses to be completed shall be determined in consultation with the student's graduate committee. Satisfactory performance on the Qualifying Examination. The Qualifying Examination will be given at the beginning of the third semester of residence, on or before a date set by the discipline Graduate Coordinator. At least one week prior to the examination date, a PhD student will present to his/her committee an abstract describing a topic that involves original research. The abstract should be no longer than one page and must describe an original concept or approach to a research problem with a suspected positive outcome deduced by the student . The subject may or may not become part of the dissertation. The exam will begin by the student giving a 15 to 20 minute presentation of the material in the abstract. An oral exam, not to exceed two hours, will follow covering (primarily) the topic described in the abstract but the questions can and should broaden to other areas. Satisfactory completion of a Comprehensive Examination. The Comprehensive Examination will be given at the beginning of the fifth semester of residence, on a date set by the Graduate Coordinator. The purpose of the comprehensive examination is to determine the student's understanding of the chosen field of specialization ("depth") as well as general knowledge in earth sciences ("breadth"). The comprehensive examination will consist of a two-day (12 hours maximum) written examination followed no more than two days later by a two-hour oral examination. The oral examination will be used to clarify any points left in question by the written responses. A student should consult his or her dissertation advisor and graduate committee regarding the areas in which comprehension is expected. Submission of two manuscripts for publication in peer-reviewed journals or books. Completion and successful defense of a dissertation: (ESCI 9000) at least 9 hours. NOTE: Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. V. Graduate Certificate Program in Geographic Information Systems The Graduate Certificate Program in Geographic Information Systems is an interdisciplinary program open to students from departments in all colleges at the University of Memphis. The program draws on the expertise of faculty from different departments and colleges and includes elective courses from a wide variety of departments. The academic program for each student will be individually crafted by the student in consultation with members of the GIS Certificate Program Committee. The program is intended for students currently admitted to a graduate program at the U of M or another university or students holding a graduate degree with an interest in using GIS as a spatial problem-solving tool. A. Admission to the Program Students currently admitted to a graduate program at the U of M or other university or students already holding a graduate degree may apply for admission to the Graduate Certificate Program in Geographic Information Systems. For students enrolled in a graduate program, a minimum GPA of 3.0 is required for admission. In rare instances, students who have completed an undergraduate degree program but who have neither completed a graduate degree nor been admitted to a graduate program must apply to the Graduate School for admission as Non-Degree Seeking students; they will be considered for admission on an individual basis. Students must apply to both the certificate program and the graduate school. To apply, students submit: transcript of undergraduate degree program and transcripts of prior and current graduate study; two letters of recommendation; A letter describing reasons why the student is interested in pursuing a graduate certificate in the area of geographic information systems and how the program corresponds with prior experience and anticipated career plans. GRE scores are required and are an important factor in admission. A minimum score of 550 on the TOEFL or 210 on the computer-based TOEFL and a minimum score of 50 on the Test of Spoken English (for students whose native language is not English) B. Program Requirements The proposed program requires completion of 12 semester credit hours. Nine of the 12 hours must be met by satisfactory completion of three core courses: ESCI 6515 Geographic Information Science, ESCI 6525 Analytical Geographic Information Science, ESCI 7998 Capstone GIS project Three credit hours of electives, selected per student's interest, with the approval of the GIS Certificate Advisory Committee In order to continue in the program, students must maintain at least a 3.0 GPA. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .