#http://www.memphis.edu/bitm/faculty/chenzhang.php
Chen Zhang - BIT - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Business Information and Technology Welcome About Admissions Programs Courses Faculty Research FCBE Faculty Lloyd Brooks Judith Brown Jasbir Dhaliwal Mark Gillenson Wade M Jackson Brian Janz Bill Kettinger Naveen Kumar Richard Kumi Euntae "Ted" Lee Jong Seok Lee Robin Poston Sandra Richardson Margaret Schultz Judith Simon Thomas Stafford Chen Zhang Home BIT Faculty Chen Zhang Chen Zhang Associate Professor, DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS INFORMATION AND TECHNOLOGY Phone (901) 678-5671 Email czhang12@memphis.edu Fax (901) 678-4151 Office 301 Fogelman Administration Building Office Hours By Appointment About Chen Zhang Dr. Chen Zhang is an Associate Professor of Business Information and Technology at the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics at the University of Memphis. Dr. Zhang's research primarily focuses on individual behavior in online communities especially in open source software development communities and other open innovation communities. She is also interested in the dynamics and the evolution of IT ecosystems as well as the strategic value of information and business analytics. Her other research interests include online information search behavior, requirements elicitation, and software project management. Dr. Zhang has published her research in Information Systems Research, MISQ Executive, IEEE Software, and proceedings of major international conferences such as International Conference on Information Systems (ICIS). She has taught courses in Applications Development, Computer Hardware and System Software, Data Communications and Networks, and Introduction to Business Microcomputer Applications. She holds a Ph.D. in Management Information Systems from Purdue University, a M.S. in Computer Science from Wright State University, an MBA from Bowling Green State University, and a B.S. in Economics from Beijing Normal University in China. Education Doctor of Philosophy, Purdue University Master of Science, Wright State University Master of Business Administration, Bowling Green State University Bachelor of Science, Beijing Normal University Interests Teaching Interests Applications Programming; Computer Hardware and Software; Systems Analysis and Design; Statistics and Business Analytics; Enterprise Architecture; Mobile Applications Development Research Interests Open Source Software Development; Open Innovations and IT Ecosystems; Strategic Value of Information and IT; Online Information Search Behavior; Software Development and Testing; Business Analytics Selected Research Zhang, C., Hahn, J. and De, P. 2013. "Continued Participation in Online Innovation Communities: Does Community Response Matter Equally for Everyone?" Information Systems Research (24:4), pp. 1112-1130. Kettinger, W.J., Zhang, C. and Chang K. 2013. "A View from the Top: Integrated Information Delivery and Effective Information Use from the Senior Executive's Perspective," Information Systems Research, Forthcoming. Meservy, T., Zhang, C., Lee, E., and Dhaliwal, J. 2011. "The Business Rules Approach and Its Impact on Software Testing: A Case Study," IEEE Software, 21 Sept. 2011. IEEE computer Society Digital Library. IEEE Computer Society, &lt; Abstract Onita, C., Lee, E., Zhang, C., and Kaleta, J. 2012. "Network Enabled Meta-Search Tool (NEST): An Answer to Harmonizing Knowledge Sourcing in a Company?" Journal of Information Technology Management (23:2), pp. 29-41. Kettinger, W. J., Zhang, C. and Marchand, D. A. 2011. "CIO and Business Executive Leadership Approaches to Establishing Company-Wide Information Orientation," MIS Quarterly Executive (10:4). Abstract Ambartsoumian, V., Dhaliwal, J., Meservy, T., Lee, E. T., and Zhang, C., 2011."Implementing Quality Gates throughout the Enterprise IT Production Process," Journal of Information Technology Management (42:1), pp. 28-38. Hahn, J., Moon, J. Y., and Zhang, C. 2008. "Emergence of New Project Teams from Open Source Software Developer Networks: Impact of Prior Collaboration Ties," Information Systems Research (19:3), pp. 369-391. Abstract Cox, M. T., and Zhang, C. 2007. "Mixed-Initiative Goal Manipulation," AI Magazine (28:2), pp. 68-73. Faculty Lloyd Brooks Judith Brown Jasbir Dhaliwal Mark Gillenson Wade M Jackson Brian Janz Bill Kettinger Naveen Kumar Richard Kumi Euntae "Ted" Lee Jong Seok Lee Robin Poston Sandra Richardson Margaret Schultz Judith Simon Thomas Stafford Chen Zhang BIT News Publications, recognitions and spotlights about faculty and students of the BIT department. BIT Events Find out what's happening at the department and visit our weekly colloquium. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/23/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .