#http://www.memphis.edu/cepr/counseling/rehab.php
Rehabilitation Counseling - CEPR - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Counseling, Educational Psychology &amp; Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Ed Psych &amp; Research Faculty Research Counseling Degree Programs Counseling-CMH (MS) Counseling-School (MS) Counseling-Rehab (MS) Counseling-Clinical Rehab (MS) Counseling (EdD) Educational Specialist (EdS) Admissions MS Application EdD Application EdS Application Certificate in Disability Studies Application Financial Assistance Mission Statement Current Students Practicum &amp; Internship Links to Counseling Resources General Campus Contacts Home CEPR Counseling Rehabilitation Counseling Rehabilitation Counseling concentration coordinator Steve Zanskas, Ph.D., CRC Patterson, Room 119D szanskas@memphis.edu 901.678.4021 Important Links Rehabilitation Counseling Program Plan Graduate Student Handbook Practicum and Internship Manual Evaluation Plan Program Outcomes Rehabilitation Counseling Concentration Requirements: 48 hours Mission Statement The mission of the rehabilitation counseling master's degree program at The University of Memphis is to prepare professional rehabilitation counselors to provide a full range of rehabilitation counseling services to facilitate the personal, educational, and vocational development of individuals with emotional, cognitive, physical, and neurological impairments. Program Overview The Rehabilitation Counseling Program is a nationally recognized training program that offers a 48-semester hour, CORE (Council on Rehabilitation Educations) accredited curriculum. Situated in an urban research university, we offer flexibility to both full-time and part-time students. Students are also able to sit for the national Certified Rehabilitation Counselor (CRC) certification exam during the last semester of their course work. The Profession of Rehabilitation Counseling Rehabilitation counselors utilize their skills and knowledge to assist individuals with intellectual, physical, and psychological disabilities become or remain self-sufficient and productive members of society. Rehabilitation counselors provide comprehensive counseling services that include individual assessment; individual, group, and family counseling; case management; career and vocational counseling; and job placement. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, employment of rehabilitation counselors is projected to grow 20 percent from 2012 to 2022, faster than the average for all occupations. Rehabilitation counselors are able to find employment in the following settings: State-federal rehabilitation agencies Private rehabilitation companies Private mental health counseling practices Community based mental health agencies Substance abuse programs Geriatric counseling and rehabilitation programs Hospital-based treatment programs Developmental disability agencies Head injury programs Group homes Community-based correction programs Veteran's administration medical centers Educational settings (high school and college/university) Employee assistance programs. Why is our program the best place to start? The University of Memphis Rehabilitation Counseling Program is ranked among the top 25 programs in the nation by US News and World Reports. We house the Center for Rehabilitation and Employment Research in a diverse metropolitan community. A few other reasons to consider pursuing a master's degree in rehabilitation counseling at The University of Memphis: Dynamic employment opportunities upon graduation Federal scholarships and paid internships Late afternoon and evening classes Supervised practicum and internship Close working relationships between students and faculty Immediate eligibility after graduation for CRC Certification Students who complete 12 additional credits and post-master's clinical experience are eligible to apply to become a Licensed Professional Counselor-Mental Health Service Provider (LPC-MHSP) in the state of Tennessee Nationally recognized faculty Our Faculty Dr. Steve Zanskas , CRC Dr. Dan Lustig, CRC Dr. Chrisann Schiro-Geist , CRC Dr. Douglas Strohmer , CRC Admission Requirements Applicants must apply to the Graduate School and the Department of Counseling, Educational Psychology, and Research . Please refer to the Graduate Bulletin for details. All applicants to the program must: Complete both the Graduate School and CEPR Department application Attain an acceptable score on the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) Furnish three letters of reference Submit a 500-1000 word typed written essay stating your reasons for seeking admission to the program and professional goals and objectives. Applicants to the program should be willing to have a personal interview with the admission committee. Program Deadlines Fall Semester Application Deadline: March 1st Spring Semester Application Deadline: October 1st Scholarship Opportunity The graduate Rehabilitation Counseling Program at The University of Memphis has been awarded a grant from The Rehabilitation Services Administration intended to fund the tuition, fees, and stipends for master's students each year of the next five years. The intent of the grant is to increase the number of rehabilitation counselors prepared to work in vocational rehabilitation settings. Rehabilitation counselors are counselors with a specialty in working with individuals that have a disability and their families. Students interested in this scholarship opportunity should complete the RSA Scholarship application . If you have any questions please contact Dr. Steve Zanskas at szanskas@memphis.edu for additional information. Counseling Degree Programs Counseling-CMH (MS) Counseling-School (MS) Counseling-Rehab (MS) Counseling-Clinical Rehab (MS) Counseling (EdD) Educational Specialist (EdS) Admissions MS Application EdD Application EdS Application Certificate in Disability Studies Application Financial Assistance Mission Statement Current Students Practicum &amp; Internship Links to Counseling Resources General Campus Contacts Admissions Current Students Student Organizations Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .