#http://www.memphis.edu/polisci/people/faculty_and_staff/eric-groenendyk.php
Eric Groenendyk - Political Science - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Political Science About Undergraduate Graduate JD/MA Program Internships People People Bios Awards and Kudos Home Political Science People Eric Groenendyk Eric Groenendyk Associate Professor Phone 901.678.3462 Email grnendyk@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2983 Office 419 Clement Hall Office Hours Call for Hours CV About Eric Groenendyk Professor Groenendyk joined the Department of Political Science in 2009. He teaches courses on American Government, Public Opinion, Political Behavior, Parties and Elections, Statistics, and Research Methods. His research examines the motivations that underlie citizens' political behavior. This has led him to do work on party identification, emotions, and motivated reasoning. His book, Competing Motives in the Partisan Mind, received Honorable Mention for the Robert E. Lane Award in 2014. Research Interests American Politics, Political Behavior, Public Opinion, Political Psychology, Party identification, Political Parties, Emotion in Politics, Motivated Reasoning, Research Methods Education Ph.D., University of Michigan, 2009; B.A., with Highest Honors in Communication Studies and Political Science, University of Michigan, 2001. Publications Groenendyk, Eric. (forthcoming) "The Anxious and Ambivalent Partisan: The Effect of Incidental Anxiety on Partisan Motivated Recall and Ambivalent." Public Opinion Quarterly . Groenendyk, Eric W. and Antoine J. Banks. (2014). "Emotional Rescue: How Emotions Help Partisans Overcome Collective Action Problems." Political Psychology (35)3: 359-378. Groenendyk, Eric W. (2013). Competing Motives in the Partisan Mind: How Loyalty and Responsiveness Shape Party Identification and Democracy . New York: Oxford University Press. Groenendyk, Eric W. (2012). "Justifying Party Identification: A Case of Identifying with the Lesser of Two Evils." Political Behavior 34(3): 453-475. Valentino, Nicholas A., Ted Brader, Eric W. Groenendyk, Krysha Gregorowicz, and Vincent Hutchings. (2011). "Election Night's Alright For Fighting: The Role of Emotions in Political Participation." Journal of Politics 73(1): 156-170. Groenendyk, Eric. (2011). "Current Emotion Research in Political Science: How Emotions Help Democracy Overcome its Collective Action Problem." Emotion Review 3(4): 455-463. Valentino, Nicholas A., Krysha Gregorowicz, and Eric W. Groenendyk. (2009). "Efficacy, Emotions, and the Habit of Participation." Political Behavior 31(3): 307-330. Groenendyk, Eric W. and Nicholas A. Valentino. (2002). "Of Dark Clouds and Silver Linings: Effects of Exposure to Issue Versus Candidate Advertising on Persuasion, Information Retention, and Issue Salience." Communication Research 29(3): 295-319. Experience Associate Professor in Department of Political Science, University of Memphis (Fall 2015 to present); Assistant Professor in Department of Political Science, University of Memphis (Fall 2009 to Summer 2015); Graduate Recruitment Coordinator for Department of Political Science, University of Memphis (Fall 2009 to present). People Bios Awards and Kudos Alumni and Friends Find out how you can support the Department of Political Science. News and Events Read about student and faculty awards and semester events. RSO/Clubs The Department of Political Science is affiliated with several UofM registered student clubs. Contact Main office contact and location information. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .