#http://www.memphis.edu/history/focus_wgf.php
Focus Area on Women, Gender, and Family History - Department of History - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of History Why History? Undergraduate Graduate Online Faculty HERC GAAAH Home Department of History Focus Area on Women, Gender, and Family History Focus Area on Women, Gender, and Family History Our focus area on Women, Gender, and Family history employs a wide range of departmental historians whose specializations vary across geographical and chronological divisions. As a group, we are particularly interested in understanding women’s lives in the past, as well as the many ways that gender shapes both individual experience and larger social institutions and ideals. Towards those ends, we conceptualize family relationships, reproduction, sexuality, and gender relations as intertwined. We also view these factors as crucial to understanding broad questions about race, labor, politics, religion, and health across time and place. This focus area includes a number of faculty members who work on the United States, as well as those who concentrate on the Ancient World, Latin America, Medieval Europe, and the Modern Middle East. We also build on the University’s strength in women and gender studies, including the Center for Research on Women, the Women's and Gender Studies Program, and a number of other departments and colleges across campus. Our faculty members’ scholarship and teaching interests expose students to a variety of approaches to the study of women, gender, and family in an array of historical contexts. We have a particular strength in this focus area among our American historians. For instance, Dr. Beverly Bond’s research and teaching interests center on the lives of African American women, with an emphasis on the social, political, and economic activities of African American women in the nineteenth century urban upper (trans-Appalachian) South. Dr. Susan O’Donovan’s research analyzes the gendered dimensions of work in slavery and freedom, an inquiry that has led her to reconsider black politics in the age of emancipation and, more recently, the multi-valanced politics of slaves. Dr. Margaret Caffrey is a women’s and gender historian whose research has dealt with questions of gender in everyday life. She has also considered the lives of American women, particularly those who were predominantly lesbian or bisexual. Dr. Sarah Potter’s work on family and sexuality history in the twentieth-century United States highlights the political dimensions of the family across race and class. The Women, Gender, and Family focus area also has a strong and important global dimension. For example, Dr. Guiomar Dueñas-Vargas’s research on Latin American women’s history focuses primarily on nineteenth-century Colombia. In her research and teaching, she examines themes such as women and the family, children in colonial times, and gender and the nation. Likewise, Egyptologist Dr. Suzanne Onstine is especially interested in investigating the lives of women, and in particular the ways in which women's lives intersected with religion, class, and ethnicity. Beverly Tsacoyianis works on the Modern Middle East, with research and teaching interests in gender, health, and colonialism in the Eastern Mediterranean, especially in Lebanon, Syria, and Egypt. Dr. James Blythe writes about the complex ideas of gender and family in medieval scholastic texts and teaches a course about medieval and Renaissance women and gender. This focus area is rounded out with a number of full-time instructors whose research and teaching revolves around questions of women, gender, and family. Dr. Chrystal Goudsouzian’s main areas of interest are family and private life in the ancient world. Within her field of Egyptology, she studies the ways in which myth and religious beliefs and practices both reflected and shaped ancient Egyptian conceptions of sexuality, gender, and the body. Dr. Christine Eisel’s teaching and research interests center on women in colonial British North America, with a particular focus on the ways women both resisted and supported masculine authority associated with formal institutions. Dr. Colin Chapell’s research examines the relationships between Protestant theology and gender construction in the American south, while his classes emphasize the importance of gender ideologies in American history. Dr. Michele Coffey considers racialized constructions of gender and gendered rhetoric as political tools utilized by diverse populations of southerners in efforts to mobilize in the 20th century. History Happenings The department reports, as they occur, significant happenings that involve our faculty, students, staff, and alumni. Newsletter The department newsletter is filled with interesting articles and information about our award-winning faculty and students. Event Calendar Plan to attend events of historical interest. Contact Us Contact the Department of History at The University of Memphis. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .