#http://www.memphis.edu/anthropology/student-life/inthefield.php
In the Field - Department of Anthropology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Student Life Resources Student Life News &amp; Events In the Field Student Directory Home Department of Anthropology Student Life In the Field Carolyn Trimble Community Empowerment through Cemetery Preservation My practicum focuses on empowering a historically marginalized community through the preservation of the historic Mt. Carmel and Hollywood Cemeteries located in the South Memphis neighborhood. I am using the Florida Public Archaeology Network's Cemetery ResourcesProtection Training (CRPT) as a model for training community volunteers to preserve, clean, maintain, and repair historic gravestones. To support these efforts, I am assisting a grassroots community group in forming a 501(c) 3 non-profit organization. Kyle Simpson I worked on a study sponsored by The Nature Conservancy in Tennessee, aimed at understanding public perceptions of forest health and common forest management techniques, e.g. herbicide treatments or prescribed burning, in urban natural areas. The project is focused on two state natural areas in Memphis: The Old Forest State Natural Area at Overton Park and the Lucius Burch Jr. State Natural Area at Shelby Farms Park. Each of these forested areas faces a potential threat from invasive plant species. Invasive plants are non-native plants that are able to outcompete native plants and "choke out" the forest. According to many, the removal of these plants is crucial to protecting the future health of the natural areas. Though the project extends beyond my practicum, I have spent the summer months writing a forest management best management practices report for The Nature Conservancy. The report was based in part on telephone interviews with park managers and ecologists at Forest Park in St. Louis, MO and Radnor Lake State Natural Area in Nashville, TN. I have conducted participant observation at park events like nature hikes and invasive species removal efforts. Finally, in an effort to understand people's ideas of nature, forest health, and the removal of invasive species, I have spent time surveying in each park and have interviewed some key stakeholders and am in the process of conducting a series of focus groups with park user groups and advocacy groups. This practicum experience is part of a larger project led by Dr. Keri Brondo. The study will continue through May 2015. Sanne Roijmans I completed my practicum with Southern Growth Studio , a strategic business growth firm specialized in market strategy and innovation. I worked as an Ethnographic Researcher on a project for a big children's research hospital. With a multidisciplinary team we conducted research onto the fundraising through fitness events to understand who the most important donors are, in order to give tangible and innovative solutions to increase donations. The research was done along the lines of the Design Thinking Method - a creative method that is often used in the world of innovation and design. Besides gaining experience and knowledge and further developing myself professionally, my practicum also allowed me to travel to New Orleans, Austin, and Nashville to conduct research. Steven Payne I worked for the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) on a campaign to unionize adjunct professors at private universities. I had previously worked for SEIU in Minneapolis, but never with adjunct professors. My dad was an adjunct while I was growing up, so I was already aware how difficult a job it was. I was shocked to learn some statistics about higher education - more than 50% of faculty are now part time, and wages are very low. Professors at one school I worked at earned less than the unionized janitors on campus. In Reclaiming the Ivory Tower, Joe Berry writes that part time faculty only earn an average $12,100 from teaching (7). Benefits are non-existent. At one school where we organized, adjuncts were the only group of people on campus who were not allowed to use the campus gym - something the university president changed once the union campaign began! Most adjuncts don't have offices, instead working out of their cars, as they rush from one university to another to teach. I worked as a researcher on these organizing campaigns, helping provide the background information and support necessary for a campaign. As a researcher, I was able to use many of the skills I learned from a data analysis class last Spring. Kevin Newton I worked through a consultancy agency with a major research hospital in Memphis, TN to categorize those who donate to their cause. This included conducting intercept interviews with both supporters and non-supporters, documenting relevant data from each interview, and analyzing this data for common characteristics within groups of interviewees. The end result was a clear list of personas including the research hospital's supporters and non-supporters for three different charity fitness events. We also offered guidance on how to increase current donations and possibly convert some members of the non-supporting personas into members of a supporting persona. One tangible implementation included that of a combined fitness training and donation program for at least one of the events researched. Lauren Haley This summer I conducted my practicum at the VA Hospital . I am currently working on a telephone support group for spouses of deployed soldiers. The support groups are designed to offer education, skills building, and stress management techniques as well as offer resources and support. I have been involved in data collection for a VA assessment to determine participants' perceptions of the project. I've also been conducting data analysis for a similar project that was conducted in 2012 called Spouse READI. The project dealt with helping spouses with reintegration issues following their service members' return home from deployment. I've been conducting data analysis on the qualitative data looking at the participants' perceptions of social support. Jenessa Gebers Over the summer, Jenessa Gebers (Dual, '15), completed her practicum with Uganda Village Project . She lived and worked in rural Iganga District, Uganda, with an interdisciplinary team which focused specifically on water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH). As a team they worked in several villages, conducting needs assessments, learning from Water and Sanitation Committee and Village Health Team members, facilitating meetings between community members and the District Water Office, and teaching WASH in schools. Additionally, Jenessa conducted research examining the barriers to water access where they were working, the health problems that arise from limited access, and the effectiveness of community-based solutions. She will present her practicum on December 1st at the Anthropology Department's Practicum Forum and also hopes to present a paper of her findings at the SfAA Annual Meetings in March of next year. Theo Davies I have been working on my practicum with Green Leaf Learning Farm , a program of the local non-profit Knowledge Quest . Green Leaf is a 2/3 acre, USDA-certified organic farm in the heart of South Memphis that educates students about urban agriculture and healthy eating. We developed a survey that I administered to different residents and community members of the Soulsville neighborhood in an attempt to gauge their current and future involvement in Green Leaf programming and urban farming. The next step is to pool together ideas for new programming via focus groups. Alicia Clark This summer I began my practicum with Memphis Teen Vision , a coalition working on teen pregnancy and teen parenting issues. I'm collaborating with the coalition's three working groups on separate projects including a parenting resource directory, research support for a comprehensive sex ed policy, and tools to support teen friendliness in clinics. I also continued working at the Center for Research on Women , contributing to the production of two program evaluations. Taylor Arnold This summer, in fulfillment of my practicum, I completed an internship at the National Farm Medicine Center (NFMC) in Marshfield, Wisconsin. My placement was part of the Occupational Health Internship Program (OHIP), which places teams of interns in unions or worker organizations throughout the US to work on occupational health projects in high-risk or under-served jobs. My internship partner was Ivanna Pereyra (BA, Salisbury University). Our main task was to work with the research team on the Seguridad en las Lecherías project, which is exploring a safety intervention for immigrant Latino workers in the dairy industry of Wisconsin. The Seguridad project is designed and being implemented by NFMC, Migrant Clinicians Network (MCN), and the Upper Midwest Agricultural Safety and Health Center (UMASH). We traveled to participating farms in Wisconsin and assisted in various forms of data collection such as questionnaires, interviews, focus groups, and training assessments. We also contributed to the Spanish curriculum design, safety trainings, and overall operations at NFMC. The experience was a great way to put classroom knowledge to practice and will serve as a springboard for my future research. Student Life News &amp; Events In the Field Student Directory Undergrads: Declare Anthropology your major! Join the Graduate Program Learn about applied and engaged anthropology! News and Events Find out what's happening in the Department of Anthropology Contact Us Main office location and numbers, undergraduate and graduate advising Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .