#http://www.memphis.edu/cepr/counseling/school.php
School Counseling - CEPR - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Counseling, Educational Psychology &amp; Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Ed Psych &amp; Research Faculty Research Counseling Degree Programs Counseling-CMH (MS) Counseling-School (MS) Counseling-Rehab (MS) Counseling-Clinical Rehab (MS) Counseling (EdD) Educational Specialist (EdS) Admissions MS Application EdD Application EdS Application Certificate in Disability Studies Application Financial Assistance Mission Statement Current Students Practicum &amp; Internship Links to Counseling Resources General Campus Contacts Home CEPR Counseling School Counseling School Counseling Concentration Coordinator Chloe Lancaster Ph.D. School Counseling Coordinator &amp; Counseling Admissions Coordinator The University of Memphis 300b Ball Hall Memphis, TN, 38152 (901) 678-4477 (office) (901) 310-4222 (home office) Important Links School Counseling Program of Study School Counseling Program of Study with College &amp; Career Certificate College &amp; Career Certificate Program of Study Ed.S Program of Study Graduate Student Handbook Practicum and Internship Manual Evaluation Plan School Counseling Portfolio Rubric Mission Statement The mission of the school counseling master's degree program at The University of Memphis is to prepare professional school counselors to implement developmentally informed, data driven, ASCA national model ® school counseling programs to support the growth of their student clientele across academic, career, and personal-social life domains. Program Overview We are a comprehensive school-counseling program that leads to licensure by the Tennessee State Department of Education as a School Counselor. Most schools require that counselors they hire be licensed or certified as school counselors by the state in which they are employed. Our academic program meets of exceeds the academic requirements for school counseling for all state departments of education and the United State Oversees Dependents Educational program. Within the program students learn counseling skills and develop competency to implement developmentally driven, evidence supported, school counseling programs aligned to The American School Counselors Association's National Model ®. Graduates of our program have the course work and skills to immediately operate effectively at any grade level they are assigned. Students without teaching experience Students who have not had 1 year of teaching experience in a K-12 setting are required by the state of Tennessee to participate in a preliminary school induction experience. In order to meet this requirement students must complete COUN 7790 "Independent Study Observation in Schools" (1 hr.) class, during their first or second semester of enrolment in the MS program. COUN 7790 consists of 40 observation hours accrued across all 3-school levels: Elementary, middle, and high school. To apply, complete the COUN 7790 application form , and turn it in to Dr. Cogdal by the practicum &amp; internship application due date. Students will also have to complete the Tennessee Bureau of Investigations background check . Finally students without teaching experience are required to complete a special education class (SPED 7000), unless they have completed a comparable class at the undergraduate or graduate level. MS Program Information 48-52 hour CACREP approved degree program 750 hours of field experiences at the elementary, middle, and secondary school levels. Options for public, private, and charter school field experiences Full &amp; part time program enrollment plans 2 or 3-year program completion options College and career counseling specialty Certification for out-of-state school counselors Re-certification options for in and out of State LPC-MHSPs Faculty Dr. Chloe Lancaster Dr. Dick James Adjunct faculty Dr. Jo Epstein Dr. Ann Taylor Program outcomes We are committed to ensuring our students receive the highest quality professional induction experience to prepare them to successfully adjust to dynamic school environments. Our graduates consistently score in the top 1/3 of students on the school counseling praxis exams. Our students are frequently commended by our partners in the schools for their high degree of knowledge, skills, and adaptability. In terms of employment outlook, the profession of school counselors is projected to grow 12 percent from 2012 to 2022. Our graduates successfully find employment across the country and locally they can be found across, public, private and charted school settings. Our annual CACREP report can be accessed here . Applications Applications to the program are due October 1st and March 1st of each year. To apply, prospective students must complete a department application and an application to graduate school. For a comprehensive list of program pre-requisites and the application process please refer to our Admissions page . School Counseling College and Career Certificate The University of Memphis's certificate in college and career counseling is an online and field based program designed to address contemporary issues related to career and college counseling in schools. The certificate focuses on developing technical skills and expertise to effectively prepare students to transition from high school to college or from high school to vocational programs. The curriculum is designed to offer insight into every facet of career and college planning, including the usage of assessment data, the college application and admissions process, financial aid panning, career counseling, and working with special populations. The program is committed to addressing contemporary issues influencing the field, by building awareness of social justice issues in the college going process and utilizing student achievement data as a lever to design programs that strategically target the achievement gap. Knowledge and technical expertise are enhanced by a comprehensive field experience that places students in area high schools and colleges, affording extensive opportunities to consolidate learning, and build professional competency. School Counseling College and Career Certificate Program Requirements The curriculum requires completion of 12 semester credit hours, offered online (9 hrs.) and in field based settings (3 hrs.). All coursework can be completed within one year of registering for the certificate. Because course offerings may alter to reflect the latest developments in the field, it is recommended that the certification be completed in a timely manner. COUN 7824 (3 hrs.): College Admissions Counseling COUN 7825 (3 hrs.): Strategies for College and Career Counseling in K-12 Settings COUN 7826 (3 hrs.): School Counseling to Close the Achievement Gap COUN 7827 (3 hrs.): Capstone Field-based Experience or COUN 7645/7646 (3hrs.): Practicum or Internship in Secondary School and College Setting (3 hrs.) (This course is only available for The University of Memphis MS &amp; Ed.D. Counseling Students) Who should apply? This professional certification is ideal for practicing and future school counselors who want to develop the skills to effectively assist students to pursue viable post secondary options. This certificate will also assist individuals aspiring to become school based college counselors or independent career counselors to develop the field specific knowledge to establish an exceptional college and career operation. Students enrolled in the MS school counseling program are encouraged to blend the certificate into their program of study. Graduation Requirements Students must complete all four required courses with a B average (3.00) or higher, for a total of 12 credit hours Certificate only students must submit a 'Graduate Certificate Program Completion Form' to your departmental advisors two-weeks prior to the Graduate School deadline for graduation (See attached PDF in email) Students are also required to apply to graduate with their certificate in their MyMemphis portal To review important gradate office deadlines and graduation requirements go to the Grad School. Admission to program Students currently admitted to a graduate program at the UofM Students at another university pursuing a graduate degree in the social or behavioral sciences Students already holding a graduate degree in the social or behavioral sciences Non-degree seeking students who hold a bachelor's degree or higher who meet the University of Memphis's graduate school requirements. For students enrolled in a graduate program, a minimum GPA of 3.0 is required for admission. An overall minimum grade point average of 2.75 is recommended for admission at the under graduate level Certificate Application Process: Certificate only students STEP 1: Apply to the certificate program Send the following documents to: Dr. Chloe Lancaster The University of Memphis 100 Ball Hall Memphis, TN 38152 Completed certificate application reviewed on a rolling admission basis (insert link) Two letters of recommendation from a current or previous employers, and, or a current or previous university instructor A sealed copy of official student transcripts Copy of state approved background check Link to TBI background check (See PDF attached to email) A letter addressing your reasons for applying to the certificate program that discusses how the program supports your prior interests and future career goals. STEP 2: Apply to graduate school as a certificate-seeking student In addition to these documents you must submit a separate application to graduate school here When completing the form you will be prompted to select your desired route--indicate that you are a certificate-seeking student STEP 3: Apply for graduation Complete all steps required as indicated on the Graduate School page Prerequisites to Apply to Graduate Complete the Graduate Certificate Program Candidacy Form two-weeks prior to the Graduate School deadline for graduation and return this form to: Dr. Chloe Lancaster The University of Memphis 100 Ball Hall Memphis, TN 38152 Students are also required to apply to graduate with their certificate through the MyMemphis portal To review important gradate office deadlines and graduation requirements go to the Grad School . Certificate Application Process: The University of Memphis M.S., ED.S. &amp; Ed.D. Only STEP 1: Apply to certificate program Students enrolled in the M.S., ED.S. &amp; Ed.D. in Counseling programs must complete a certificate application form (insert link): Completed applications should be submitted to Dr. Chloe Lancaster The University of Memphis 100 Ball Hall Memphis, TN, 38152 STEP 2: Complete change of status form If the candidate is currently in a Degree program, a change of status form must be completed first. This is NOT an application for first-time admission to Graduate School. This form is only for current degree seeking students wishing to change their degree program by adding the Certificate. It is very important that you indicate on the form that you intend to complete your current degree program. Failure to indicate your intention to complete your graduate degree can affect graduation. Return this form to the Office of Graduate Admissions STEP 3: Apply for graduation Complete all steps required as indicated on the Graduate School page Prerequisites to Apply to Graduate Complete the Graduate Certificate Program Candidacy Form two-weeks prior to the Graduate School deadline for graduation and return this form to: Dr. Chloe Lancaster The University of Memphis 100 Ball Hall Memphis, TN 38152 Students are also required to apply to graduate with their certificate through the MyMemphis portal To review important gradate office deadlines and graduation requirements go to the Grad School. Educational Specialists Degree If you already have a master's degree in another field, then the Educational Specialist degree is available and most likely a more efficient option for licensure. Because each case is different, if you already have a master's degree in another field, you will need to have your academic coursework analyzed by one of the school-counseling professors. All Educational Specialist programs are individually tailored to the particular needs of each student. If you already have a degree in counseling, but it is not a school counseling concentration, then non-degree status may be your best bet. When you have non-degree status you meet with the school counseling certification officer, who will determine what courses you need for licensure. EDs Application Professional Organizations: (embed links) American School Counselor Association (ASCA) American Counseling Association (ACA) Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP) National Board for Certified Counselors, Inc. Chi Sigma Iota International Honor Society for students, professional counselors and counselor educators. West Tennessee Counselors Association Advisory Board Each concentration has an advisory board comprised of faculty, students, alumni, and community partners who meet annually. The advisory boards are tasked with reviewing data from formative and summative sources, curricula audits, and providing program recommendations. Feedback from advisory committee is used to inform curricula modifications, and changes to program policies and protocols. Current Advisory Board Members Chloe Lancaster (Chair) Richard K. James (Co-chair) Nancy Kelley Randy McPherson Skip Ruzicka Ann Taylor Ray Payne Andrea Little Counseling Degree Programs Counseling-CMH (MS) Counseling-School (MS) Counseling-Rehab (MS) Counseling-Clinical Rehab (MS) Counseling (EdD) Educational Specialist (EdS) Admissions MS Application EdD Application EdS Application Certificate in Disability Studies Application Financial Assistance Mission Statement Current Students Practicum &amp; Internship Links to Counseling Resources General Campus Contacts Admissions Current Students Student Organizations Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/17/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .