#http://www.memphis.edu/polisci/people/faculty_and_staff/doug-imig.php
Doug Imig - Political Science - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Political Science About Undergraduate Graduate JD/MA Program Internships People People Bios Awards and Kudos Home Political Science People Doug Imig Doug Imig Professor Phone 901.678.2395 Email dimig@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2983 Office 427 Clement Hall Office Hours Call for Hours CV About Doug Imig Professor Doug Imig joined the Department of Political Science at the University of Memphis in 1998. He specializes in public policy and American politics. He is currently focusing on two projects: "Building and Sustaining a Culture of Voice for Children" with the support of The Urban Child Institute. This project will produce reliable information on children's policy, identify best practices for advocacy and policy change, and share that research with groups interested in improving the condition of children in order to build and sustain a wide-reaching culture of political voice for children. His second project is on "American Social Movements for Children" with support from The William T. Grant Foundation, The Urban Institute, and Grantsmakers for Children, Youth and Families. This project investigates the ways in which children become politically salient in the United States, how activists and advocates respond to political opportunities in their efforts to advance political agendas for children, and how those agendas change over time. Research Interests Social movements; Social policy; Community advocacy; Citizen involvement Teaching Interests Public policy; American politics Education Ph.D. Duke University 1991; M.A. Duke University 1986; BA St. Mary's College of Maryland 1984 Sample Publications Books Doug Imig and Sidney Tarrow, eds. Contentious Europeans: Protest and Politics in an Integrating Europe . 2001. Boulder CO: Rowman and Littlefield Press. Poverty and Power: The Political Representation of Poor Americans . 1996. Lincoln, Nebraska: The University of Nebraska Press. (Outstanding Book Award, Myers Center for the Study of Human Rights, 1997). Selected Articles and Book Chapters Doug Imig and Frances Breland, "Health and Science," 2010. A Cultural History of Childhood and Family in the Modern Age . Joe Hawes and N. Ray Hiner (eds.) Oxford, UK: Berg Publishers. 179-194. "Finding the European Public in Collective Action, reflections on 'The Europeanisation of Protests'" 2007. Debating the Democratic Legitimacy of the European Union . Beate Kohler-Koch and Berthold Rittberger (eds). Lanham, MD: Rowman and Littlefield. "Building a Social Movement for America's Children" 2006. Journal of Children and Poverty 12(1) 21 – 37. "Contestation in the Streets: European Protest and the Emerging Euro-politics," 2004. in G. Marks and M.R. Steenberger (eds.), European Integration and Political Conflict . New York: Cambridge University Press. 216-34. D.Imig and S. Tarrow. 2003. "Politischer Protest im europaischen Mehrebenensystem" Pp: 121-149 in Jachtenfuchs and Kohler-Koch (eds.). Europaische Integration (2). Opladen: Leske and Budrich. John Clapp, Doug Imig and Thom Reilly. 2001. "Creating Opportunities for Authentic Citizen Involvement: Neighborhood Services in the Las Vegas Valley," Journal of Applied Social Sciences Spring/Summer (25.2). Experience Professor University of Memphis 2004-present; Director of Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change, University of Memphis 2000-2004; Associate Professor University of Memphis, Political Science, 1998-2004; Resident Fellow The Urban Child Institute 2005-present; Visiting Scholar Harvard University, Program on Nonviolent Sanctions and Cultural Survival, Weatherhead Center for International Affairs, 1993-95; 1997-98. People Bios Awards and Kudos Alumni and Friends Find out how you can support the Department of Political Science. News and Events Read about student and faculty awards and semester events. RSO/Clubs The Department of Political Science is affiliated with several UofM registered student clubs. Contact Main office contact and location information. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .