#http://www.memphis.edu/cas/scholarships/departmental-scholarships.php
Departmental Scholarships - CAS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. College of Arts &amp; Sciences About Departments Research Scholarships Students Resources News Scholarships &amp; Funding Resources Departmental Not Discipline Specific Internships Assistantships Fellowships Link to Financial Aid UofM Scholarship Office Home CAS Scholarships Departmental Scholarships Departmental Scholarships The following scholarships are offered by departments in the College of Arts and Sciences. For more information about any of these scholarships, please contact the individual named for each department or visit the University of Memphis Scholarship page for more information. Army ROTC CONTACT: armyrotc@memphis.edu The Department of Military Science Website provides additional information on scholarships. Army ROTC-funded merit-based 2, 3, and 4 YR scholarships Special STEM and Language Scholarships University-funded Leadership Scholarships F or more information about this scholarship visit the Army ROTC Website. Biological Sciences CONTACT PERSON: Martha Brown Botany Book and Scholarship Fund Edward T. Browne Biology Scholarship Goldye Feinstone Endowed Fund Dr. Virginia M. Norton and Dan Norton Scholarship Priscilla S. Rushton Biology Scholarship Dr. Omar E. Smith Enrichment Fund Scholarship The Elizabeth K. Perryman Scholarship Chemistry CONTACT PERSON: Peter Bridson The Department of Chemistry Website provides additional information on scholarships. CIBA Specialty Chemicals Scholars Fund J. C. Williams Memorial Scholarship William H. Zuber Memorial Scholarship Computer Science CONTACT PERSON: Kriangsiri Malasri Peter I. Neathery Memorial Scholarship Peter I. Neathery Fellowship Fund [graduate] Visit the Department of Computer Science website for additional information. Criminology and Criminal Justice CONTACT PERSON: K.B. Turner Judge Kenneth A. Turner Scholarship The Jamille Kizer Book Scholarship The Association of Certified Fraud Examiners – Mid-South Chapter Book Scholarship Earth Sciences CONTACT PERSON: Daniel Larsen Julius Augustus Davies Anthropology Fellowship [graduate] Lounsbury Geology Scholarship Dr. Paul H. Sisco, Sr., Memorial Scholarship English CONTACT PERSON: Dale Williams [undergraduate]; Sarah Ellis [graduate] Emalie Appleton Brooks Memorial Endowed Scholarship [undergraduate] Elizabeth Phillips Memorial Scholarship [undergraduate] Mid-South Society for Technical Communication Scholarship [undergraduate or graduate] Graduate Research Award [graduate] Dr. Lawrence and Sarah Wynn Fellowship [graduate] Dr. Lawrence and Sarah Wynn Scholarship for the Study of Romantic and Victorian Literature [graduate] William and Martha Donigan Scholarship [graduate] Ruth and Henry Loeb Scharff Scholarship [graduate] Foreign Languages CONTACT PERSON: William J Thompson Mary Pettus Thomas Memorial Scholarship The Mary Pettus Scholarship is not awarded through the Tiger Scholarship Manager. Students should contact Dr. Thompson (see link above) for more information about the application process. History CONTACT PERSON: Karen Bradley Bob Baker Memorial Scholarship Paul R. Coppock Scholarship in History and Journalism [awarded every other year in History] Belle McWilliams Scholarship Ruth and Harry Woodbury Fellowship [graduate] International Studies CONTACT PERSON: Keri Brondo Memphis in May International Festival International Studies Scholarship Judaic Studies CONTACT PERSON: Robert A. Marczynski Bornblum Judaic Studies Teacher Training Scholarship Mathematical Sciences CONTACT PERSON: James Campbell R.P. and Dorothy Clark Scholarship Kaltenborn Mathematics Scholarship Mathematical Sciences Enrichment Fund Scholarship Philosophy CONTACT PERSON: Stephan Blatti Carroll Bowman Scholarship Craig R. Garrett Memorial Scholarship Spindel Dissertation Fellowship [graduate] Physics and Materials Science CONTACT PERSON: Jingbiao Cui Albert H. Woollett Scholarship Robert R. Marchini Scholarship Psychology CONTACT PERSON: Marion Powless Dr. Roland Frye Achievement Award [graduate] Scholarships &amp; Funding Resources Departmental Not Discipline Specific Internships Assistantships Fellowships Link to Financial Aid UofM Scholarship Office Apply now for an Undergraduate Degree in the College of Arts &amp; Sciences Pursue your dream of having a degree, broaden your career choices and gain the confidence you need to succeed! The College offers Master's and Doctoral Degrees Are you interested in a new profession? Would you like to enhance the knowledge and experience you already possess? Community Engagement We are committed to teaching and serving the Memphis and Mid-South community through our programs and events. Contact Us Dean's Office Contacts, Advising, Department Chairs... Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .