#http://www.memphis.edu/mediaroom/releases/mar15/fit.php
UofM Will Hold Spring Commencement May 10 - Media Room - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UofM Media Room Publications Resources This Week UofM Magazine News Releases Contact News Releases Latest News Releases October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 News Releases Archive 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Home Media Room News Releases UofM Will Hold Spring Commencement May 10 Strategic Renewal as the FedEx Institute of Technology Moves into its Second Decade March 17, 2015 - As the FedEx Institute of Technology moves into its second decade of operations as the front door to the University's research infrastructure and capabilities, strategic renewal and an expansion of its mission are in the works at the University of Memphis. President M. David Rudd's new vision for the Institute emphasizes a stronger technology focus, a national profile in terms of being at the forefront of technology developments and partnerships with global technology organizations. It includes serving as the spark to bring the latest technology innovations to the region, stronger community partnerships and an emphasis on improved opportunities for commercialization. He also sees the Institute as a key mechanism to help break down the traditional silos that can stifle interdisciplinary research and faculty collaborations at universities. New key areas of focus will include the expanding biologistics sector and cyber security testing, which has quickly emerged as a national security and business challenge. In both cases, it will be building upon capabilities that the University has put in place over the last decade. The push into biologistics will see the University's bioengineering, freight transportation, bioinformatics and biomaterials groups coming together to innovate in research and launch the first biologistics graduate program in the country. None of these constituent groups was in place when the FedEx Institute of Technology first opened its doors. In the case of cyber security testing, the University will be building upon two core competencies in which it has national strengths: systems testing and information assurance. Its Systems Testing Excellence Program is the nation's largest academic research group in software testing, and since 2006 has been helping the likes of FedEx and the U.S. Department of Defense to advance industry best practices through research and training. Similarly, its Center for Information Assurance has been one of the most active research groups at the University and enjoys designations as a National Center for Academic Excellence in Information Assurance Education and Research. The FedEx Institute of Technology will also be strengthening its relationships with regional chief information and technology officers. Dr. Rudd issued this call to technology leaders in the community: "If you are playing such a technology leadership role in your organization, please consider this your open invitation to connect with and be a part of the FedEx Institute of Technology as we work together to make Memphis a vibrant technology hub for the future." The reenergizing and strategic renewal of the Institute will see the University appointing Dr. Jasbir Dhaliwal, who currently oversees its portfolio of 111 graduate programs (that include doctoral, masters and graduate certificate programs), stepping up to lead as the U of M's new Chief Innovation Officer and Executive Director of the FIT. Consistent with an effort to enhance efficiency, Dr. Dhaliwal has agreed to continue to serve as interim dean of the Graduate School. As the new Chief Innovation Officer, he will report directly to the president, join the President's Council, and his appointment will see the University's nearly 4,000 doctoral and masters students becoming closely involved with the research and outreach activities of the Institute as it builds on past successes. Technology transfer efforts, led by Dr. Kevin Boggs, and supporting entrepreneurship, remain priorities which will be now be merged into the larger role of the Institute on campus and in the community. The Crews Center for Entrepreneurship will be seeking distinct new partnerships within the regional innovation ecosystem to boost technology commercialization by students and faculty. Dr. Dhaliwal noted that, "Besides forging a tighter technology relationship with FedEx, the Institute will also function as an additional catalyst to further energize University efforts to grow its funded research base given recent successes such as the NIH-funded Mobile Sensor Data-to-Knowledge Center of Excellence in mobile health. This will involve working closely both with internal research support services professionals led by Dr. Andy Meyers, the University's interim vice president for Research, and with external partners such as Memphis Bioworks, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital and others." Contact: Gabrielle Maxey 901.678.2843 gmaxey@memphis.edu News Releases Latest News Releases October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 News Releases Archive 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Music Performance Calendar Find out where the music is Art Museum Learn about the latest exhibits Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/2/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .