#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/programs/conferences.php
Conferences - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections Programs Overview Conferences Lecture Series Research Grants National Book Award Hooks African American Male Initiative (HAAMI) Hooks Graduate Assistants Hooks Scholars Hooks Fellows Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks Programs Conferences Hooks Annual Conferences The annual conferences of the Hooks Institute have become signature events in the university and greater community. Conferences are constructed around in-depth explorations of local or national problems that might provide strategies or tactics for addressing local concerns in Memphis. To encourage maximum attendance, the Hooks Institute does not charge conference participants a registration fee. The Institute believes that it is imperative that most, if not all, conference events remain free to the public to encourage social change at the grassroots. Hooks conferences and symposia have included the following: Toward a More Perfect Union: Civil Rights, Human Rights and Creating a New Age of Social Responsibility, April 18-20, 2012 This Civil and Human Rights Conference explored the civil rights activism of Dr. Hooks, the current state of civil rights activism and its relevance to life in America today, and the role of the Civil Rights Movement in shaping and defining issues being tackled by international human rights movements. Conference highlights included plenary addresses by Kevin Cassidy, communications and external relations officer for the International Labour Organization of the United Nations and Professor George Chauncey, Department of History, Yale University. In addition, Julian Bond, noted civil rights activist, delivered the keynote address. Distinguished panelists included Commissioner Mignon Clyburn, Dr. Birgit Speisshofer, Berlin, Germany, an environmental attorney and partner with the Gaemo Group, and Melanie Hudson, executive director of Children's Health Forum. Education as a Civil Right and Economic Driver: Empowering Individuals for the 21st Century and Beyond, April 8-9, 2010. National and local leaders gathered at the University of Memphis to explore the idea that a quality education should be a constitutional right and create economic opportunities for individuals and their communities. Sessions covered such topics as the critical role of science education in maintaining U. S. competitiveness, legal challenges and remedies for deficiencies in public education, the economic mobility created by a post-secondary education, and educational reform initiatives in Memphis. The Obama Phenomenon: Race and Political Discourse in the United States Today, April 3-4, 2009. The historic election of Barack Obama to the presidency of the United States and the implications of that event for the nation were the subjects of a major conference sponsored by the Hooks Institute at the University of Memphis. Scholars from around the nation explored expressions of thought and public reaction to persons and events associated with Obama's candidacy, including media images of Barack and Michelle Obama, the potential impact on minorities of President Obama's proposed public policy agenda, the use of Islamophobia against Obama, the question of the "post-racial society," and interpretations of the Obama candidacy by critical race theorists. The Fayette County, Tennessee Civil Rights Movement: How African Americans Changed Themselves, Their Community and Their Nation By DEMANDING THE RIGHT TO VOTE, OCTOBER 27-28, 2006. Fayette County civil rights activists, community members, and scholars gathered to honor movement activists and to hear lectures and commentary placing this movement into the historical context of other notable civil rights events and to discuss its relevance to issues of equality today. Southern Faith, Labor and Community Alliance Conference, July 2006. The architects of the 1968 Sanitation Workers Strikein Memphis gathered with union organizers, labor activists, clergy, and people of faith. The conference's goal was to promote unity of purpose among these groups with the hope of developing a common agenda for examining and working on labor issues. North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) Symposium, March 24-26, 2005. The Center for Research on Women at the University of Memphis and the Hooks Institute convened this multidisciplinary, international symposium that addressed social inequality and social justice activism, both locally within NAFTA's signatory countries and across borders. The Civil Rights Movement in Memphis, 2004. Leading Memphis civil rights advocates — Maxine Smith, Vasco Smith, H. T. Lockard, Russell B. Sugarmon, Jr. and Benjamin L. Hooks— discussed the prominent role the City of Memphis and its African American community leaders played in the fight for racial equality long before the tumultuous events of the 1960s. Hooks delivered the keynote address. The symposium also featured a display of civil rights era photographs by the acclaimed late Memphis photographer Ernest Withers. From Outsider to Insider Politics: African American Political Power and the Mayor's Office, 2004. David N. Dinkins of New York City, Richard G. Hatcher of Gary, Indiana, and Willie W. Herenton of Memphis discussed their experiences as the first African-American mayors of their respective cities and the broader implications of the transition in urban leadership for American society and democracy. Toward a New National Civil Rights Agenda, 2004. Current and former members of the United States Congress, including Mike Espy, Harold Ford, Jr., Harold Ford, Sr., Eleanor Holmes-Norton, and the late Stephanie Tubbs-Jones, focused on the current and future roles of African American elected officials in constructing a continuing national civil rights agenda. Programs Overview Conferences Lecture Series Research Grants National Book Award Hooks African American Male Initiative (HAAMI) Hooks Graduate Assistants Hooks Scholars Hooks Fellows Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .