#http://www.memphis.edu/imc/staff/omar-skalli.php
Dr. Omar Skalli - IMC - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Integrated Microscopy Center Light/Electron Microscopy Materials Science Services Fees Staff Home IMC Staff Dr. Omar Skalli Dr. Omar Skalli Director Phone 901.678.4233 Email oskalli@memphis.edu Fax Office 103A Life Science Building Office Hours By Email Appointment Dr. Skalli is a cell biologist whose research interest is the cytoskeleton, an intracellular network of filaments and tubules central to cell motility, cell division, cell shape determination, and organelle trafficking. The use of microscopy is central to Dr Skalli’s research, whether it is conventional light microscopy to examine by immunoperoxidase or immunofluorescence the distribution of specific proteins in tissues, or confocal laser fluorescence scanning microscopy to investigate the distribution, interaction and function of diverse cytoskeletal proteins in cultured cells. Dr. Skalli also uses electron microscopy to address questions related to the mechanisms by which cytoskeletal proteins assemble to form filaments and tubules. In addition to microscopy, Dr. Skalli expertise includes tissue culture, DNA cloning and expression in cells, as well as several biochemical methods such as Western blotting, protein purification, and immunoprecipitation. Dr. Skalli oversees the organization and the development of the Integrated Microscopy Center and assists users interested with projects involving cell culture methods and light microscopy with their experimental design, data interpretation and troubleshooting. Dr. Skalli is also Associate Professor in the Life Sciences Department, and teaches a graduate course on “Light Microscopy: Theory and Applications”. This course exposes students to the various modalities of light microscopy, ranging from classical bright field microscopy to state of the art methods such as super-resolution. The course also involves a practical component during which students are trained in histology and immunofluorescence staining methods and in using light, fluorescent and confocal laser scanning microscopes. Excerpts from Dr. Skalli CV Education 1982: MSc. (Biology), University of Geneva, Switzerland 1987: PhD (Molecular and Cellular Biology), University of Geneva, Switzerland 1988-1992: Postdoctoral Fellow, Dept. of Cell and Molecular Biology, Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago, IL Appointments 2010 - present: Director, Integrated Microscopy Center, University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 2015 - present: Professor, Biological Sciences, University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 2010 - 2015: Associate Professor, Biological Sciences, University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 2002-2010: Associate Professor, Cellular Biology and Anatomy, Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA 1996-2002: Assistant Professor, Dpt. of Anatomy and Cell Biology, University of Illinois at Chicago Medical school, Chicago, IL 1992-1996: Res. Assistant Professor, Dpt of Cell and Molecular Biology, Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago, IL Publications (Past 5 years, out of a total of 66 peer-reviewed publications and 10 book chapters) Quincy, Q. and Skalli, O. 2010. a-Actinin 1 and a-actinin 4 in astrocytoma cells: contrasting role in motility, common roles in antagonizing cell death and rhoA signaling. Exp. Cell Res. 316:1137-1147. Luna, G., Lewis, G. P., Banna, C. D., Skalli, O., and Fisher, S. K. 2010. Expression profiles of nestin and synemin in reactive astrocytes and müller cells following retinal injury: a comparison with GFAP and vimentin. Mol. Vis. 16: 2511-2523. Cardelli, J. and Skalli, O. 2010. Divide and invade: the dynamic cytoskeleton of glioblastoma cells. Chapter in: "Glioblastoma: Molecular Mechanisms of Pathogenesis and Current Therapeutic Strategies." Editor: S. Ray. Springer (New York). pp167-183. Quick, Q., Pan, Y., and Skalli, O. 2011. Role of Synemin in astrocytoma cell migration. Chapter in: “Tumor of the Central Nervous System. Vol. 5: Astrocytomas, hemangioblastomas, and ganglioblastomas”. Editor: M.A. Hayat. Springer (Dordrecht, Heidelberg, London, New York). pp 81-88. Pitre, A., Davis, N., Paul, M., Orr, A.W., and Skalli, O. 2012. Synemin promotes AKT-dependent glioblastoma cell proliferation by antagonizing PP2A. Mol. Biol. Cell. 23:1243-1253. Sabri, F., Boughter, J.D. Jr, Gerth, D., Skalli, O., Phung, T.C., Tamula, G.R., Leventis, N. 2012. Histological evaluation of the biocompatibility of polyurea crosslinked silica aerogel implants in a rat model: a pilot study. PLoS One 7:e50686. Epub 2012 Dec 12. Hamill, K.J., Hopkinson, S.B., Skalli, O., Jones, J.C. 2013. Actinin-4 in keratinocytes regulates motility via an effect on lamellipodia stability and matrix adhesions. FASEB J. 27:546-556. Skalli, O., Wilhelmsson, U., Örndahl, L., Fekete, B., Malmgren, K., Rydenhag, B., and Pekny, M. 2013. Astrocytoma grade IV displays three subtypes with unique expression profiles of intermediate filament proteins. Hum. Pathol. 44:2081-2088. Pekny, T., Faiz, M., Wilhelmsson, U., Curtis, M.A., Matej, R., Skalli, O., Pekny, M. 2014. Synemin is expressed in reactive astrocytes and Rosenthal fibers in Alexander disease. APMIS 122:76-80. Skalli, O., Boykins, L., Coons, L. Electron microscopy. 2014. Chapter in: “Biofouling Methods”. Dobretsov, S., Williams, D.N., and Thomason J. Edts. Wiley Blackwell publisher. Pages 26-43. Hamill, K.J., Hiroyasu, S., Colburn, Z.T., Ventrella, R.V., Hopkinson, S.B., Skalli, O., Jones, J.C. 2015. Alpha actinin-1 regulates cell-matrix adhesion organization in keratinocytes: consequences for skin cell motility. J. Invest. Dermatol. 135:1043-1052. Quick, Q., Paul, M., Skalli, O. 2015. Roles and potential clinical applications of intermediate filament proteins in brain tumors. Semin. Pediatr. Neurol. 22:40-48. Contact Us Main office contacts and locations Make a Reservation To reserve a session for IMC equipment, please login to our calendar using the user ID and password provided by the IMC staff. Division of Research and Sponsored Programs The RSP assists faculty and staff with the development of proposals to obtain research funding through externally sponsored programs. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .