#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/education/sped_backup.php
Special Education - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions Special Education Special Eduactaion (SPED) SPECIAL EDUCATION Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Deborah Lowther, Ph.D., Interim Chair Room 106D, E.C. Ball Hall In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: SPED 4101-10. Special Topics in Special Education. (1-3). Investigation in selected areas of special education. Topics are varied and in online class listings. SPED 4801-10. Workshop in Special Education (1-9). For professionals in field of special education. Intensive examination of current methodologies, research, issues and trends in various areas of exceptionalities. See online class listings for specific workshop title. SPED 2000 - Foundation/Exceptional Learn (3) Current research and practices concerning physical, cognitive, emotional, and social characteristics of individuals with exceptionalities; special education laws, educational needs, cultural diversity, inclusion in general education classroom. Field Hours: 4 SPED 2010 - Intro to Comm Disorders (3) Basic principles involved in developing a therapeutic approach to speech/language correction. SPED 2030 - Speech Language Phonetics (3) International Phonetics Alphabet and the principles of effective voice usage; emphasis on improving voice, diction, and diction characteristics through exercises in projection, articulation, and pronunciation. PREREQUISITE: admission to TEP. SPED 2060 - Speech Therapy/Public School (3) Role and responsibilities of speech teacher; legislative foundation of special education with emphasis on the IEP process and procedures. PREREQUISITE: admission to TEP. SPED 3002 - Indep Study Special Educ (1-6) Opportunity for self-directed study and/or research under supervision. PREREQUISITE: consent of department. SPED 3201 - Behv Supt Stdnt Diverse Set (3) Identification and education of students with behavioral excesses, including those who have been certified as seriously emotionally disturbed; causative factors, characteristics, appropriate educational placement alternatives and practices. Practicum (30 hrs.) with students with emotional/behavioral disorders and/or pervasive developmental disorders. PREREQUISITE: SPED 2000. SPED 3310 - Disorders of Speech (3) This course will provide students with some of the basic principles involved in developing a therapeutic approach ot speech correction. Eight (8) hours of field experience. PREREQUISITE: admission to TEP. SPED 3401 - Academic Support Diverse Lrns (3) Historical and current practices in providing services for students with learning disabilities and related learning problems; characteristics, current research-based instructional practices; special education teacher's role in implementing support services. Practicum (30 hrs.) with students with learning disabilities. PREREQUISITE: SPED 2000. SPED 3410 - Disorders of Language (3) Study of language disorders as reflected in deficiencies of symbolization and syntax. This course applies the theories of child development, speech and hearing science, and language development to provide intervention for children with language impairments. Eight (8) hours of field experience. PREREQUISITE: admission to TEP. SPED 3420 - Intro to Audiology (3) Introduction to the study of anatomy, physiology and pathologies of the auditory system which focuses on the theory and practice of results. PREREQUISITE: admission to TEP. SPED 3440 - Non Verbal Comm/Stdnt Disablty (3) Introduction to Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC) systems to provide opportunities to learn about communication techniques for students with severe speech and language impairments, hearing loss, physical disabilities, and cognitive impairments. Cultural differences in communication will also be discussed. SPED 3501 - Suprt Stdnt/Mental Retardation (3) Definitions, etiology, and characteristics associated with mild to severe mental retardation; examination of evaluation, services and strategies used in educational, prevocational, and transitional settings; access and use of assistive technology. Practicum (30 hrs.) with students with mental retardation. PREREQUISITE: SPED 2000. SPED 3610 - Speech Therapy Methods (3) Study of traditional and current approaches and instructional strategies for teaching preschool and school age learners with speech and language and hearing impairments. SPED 3800 - Methods I/Instruct/Literacy (3) Study of current best practices and methods for general and literacy instruction used in special education and inclusive classrooms. COREQUISITE: ICL 4020, 4021, ELED 3271, RDNG 4241. SPED 3801 - Practicum/Inclusive Settings (2-3) Planning and implementation of special education methods and materials with learners having mild disabilities. Practicum: 90 hours. COREQUISITE: SPED 3800, 3804. SPED 3802 - Ed Assessment/Inclusive Set (3) Tests and measurements used with learners having disabilities; diagnostic achievement testing as related to instructional planning. Includes other major assessment instruments and procedures used in evaluation of mild to severe exceptionalities. Field Hours: 4. PREREQUISITE: SPED 2000. COREQUISITE: ICL 4001, ELED 3242, SPED 3803, RDNG 4241. SPED 3803 - Classroom/Behavior Management (3) Advanced strategies for managing social behaviors of learners with mild to severe disabilities; techniques for eliminating maladaptive behaviors, managing aggressive and antisocial students, and teaching appropriate social skills. Field Hours: 8. PREREQUISITE: SPED 2000. SPED 3804 - SPED Methods II. Content Area (3) Study of best practices and methods for mathematics, social studies, and science instruction currently used in special education and inclusive settings; curriculum for transition and daily living skills; assistive technology for education. Field Hours: 8. COREQUISITE: SPED 3801, ELED 3251, 3261, ICL 4908. SPED 4000 - Meth/Mat Modrt/Severe Dis (3) Curriculum, methods, and materials applicable to special educational needs of learners with moderate to severe disabilities; emphasis on educational and vocational skills that facilitate normalization and independent living. PREREQUISITE: SPED 3800, 3801. COREQUISITE: SPED 4001. SPED 4001 - Modrt/Sevr Dsblty Practicum (3) Planning and implementation of special education methods and materials with learners having moderate to severe disabilities. PREREQUISITE: SPED 3800, 3801. COREQUISITE: SPED 4000. (S/U). SPED 4010 - Anatomy/Physiology Spch/Hear (3) This course will provide functional background in the anatomy and physiology of hearing, speech, and swallowing, which will allow the student to communicate with speech-language pathologists and related professionals in public school setting. SPED 4050 - Diagnostic Proc/Therapy Technq (3) Designed to develop proficiency in administering and interpreting diagnostic procedures in speech and language disorders with specific methods and materials for remediation. PREREQUISITE: admission to TEP. SPED 4111 - Intro/Appl Behav Analysis (3) Principles and procedures of applied behavior analysis with emphasis on application to change human behavior. SPED 4112 - Assess/Measure/Appl Behav Anly (3) Methods involved in conducting and interpreting common behavioral assessments, measuring behavior, and data analysis using single subject designs. SPED 4113 - Appl Behav Intervent/Strateg (3) Overview of the instructional strategies developed from applied behavior analysis including Direct Instruction, Precision Teaching, Discrete Trial Training, and others; knowledge and skills to provide effective instruction to students with disabilities. SPED 4114 - Practitioner Issues/ABA (3) Advanced concepts in Applied Behavior Analysis; ethical issues, behavior change systems, staff training, and professional conduct. SPED 4513 - Assistive Tech/Trans Instruc (3) Transition issues, life skills, vocational education to prepare students having significant exceptionalities for community living; legal and family concerns; effective transition programming; familiarity with available community resources and interagency collaboration; augmentative/alternative communication. PREREQUISITE: SPED 3501 or 4900. SPED 4601 - Student Phys/Health Dis (3) (3601). Educational and environmental modifications; accommodations to facilitate learning and vocational skills in general and special education; characteristics and etiology of mild to severe physical/health disabilities; supportive educational, medical, therapeutic interventions. Practicum (30 hrs.) with students with physical/health disabilities. PREREQUISITE: SPED 2000. SPED 4900 - Consultation Schl/Fmly/Cmty (3) Professional development issues which impact on educator interaction with students, parents and other professionals, including the development of communication and consultation skills. Practicum included. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .