#http://www.memphis.edu/history/history-happenings/events.php
Event Calendar - Department of History - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of History Why History? Undergraduate Graduate Online Faculty HERC GAAAH Home Department of History History Happenings Event Calendar Event Calendar August 2015 | September 2015 | October 2015 Some of the events listed here are not sponsored directly by the Department of History, but they are of interest to historians. August 2015 At this time there are no events scheduled for August. September 2015 10-12 September 2015 McKendree University, Lebanon, Illinois 37 th Annual Mid-America Conference on History For information, contact Dr Shelly Lemons, Department of History, McKendree University, 701 College Road, Lebanon, IL 62254 or email sllemons@mckendree.edu . 14 September 2015 7 pm Wunderlich Auditorium at Memphis University School, 6191 Park Avenue Meeting of the West Tennessee Historical Society Dr Charles Hughes, the new director of the Memphis Center and previously a Mellon Postdoctoral Fellow at Rhodes, is the author of Country Soul: Making Music and Making Race in the American South, a study of the music in the seemingly divided genres of country and soul that was produced by songwriters, musicians, and producers in the recording studios of Memphis and Nashville, Tennessee, and Muscle Shoals, Alabama--what Dr Hughes calls the "country-soul triangle." His presentation will show how the country-soul triangle gave birth to new ways of thinking about music, race, labor, and the South in the 1960s and 1970s. 18-20 September 2015 University of Colorado-Boulder Rocky Mountain Interdisciplinary History Conference Sponsored by graduate students of the Department of History at the University of Colorado-Boulder, the conference provides a congenial atmosphere for students to present papers, network with fellow graduate students, gain experience in public speaking, and attend a professional development panel. First-time presenters are especially encouraged to participate. Submissions in any discipline and national context are welcome. Possible topics include, but are not limited to: Regional, National, Transnational, or International History Diplomatic History History of the West Visual Culture and Art History Race, Ethnicity, and Cultural Identity Jewish Studies Gender or History of Sexuality History of Ideas Environmental History Asian History Presentations will be strictly limited to 15 minutes, so papers should be no more than 8 pages in length, not including endnotes and bibliography. Every paper will receive commentary by another graduate student, and a faculty member will moderate each panel session. Presentations will be followed by a question-and-answer session. There will be a small monetary award for the best conference paper. The deadline for submission of papers is 7 June 2015 . Apply online at . Submit the abstract submission form, a one-page abstract of the paper, and a current CV (all files should be uploaded in .pdf). The abstract should clearly express an original argument rooted in extensive primary-source research. Several small travel grants available. If you are interested in being considered for a travel grant include a short paragraph explaining why you need the grant. You will find a place to upload the paragraph on the abstract submission form. Professor Paul E. J. Hammer, associate professor of history at the University of Colorado-Boulder, will be the keynote speaker for the conference. 23-25 September 2015 Mississippi State University, Starkville, Mississippi The Fifteenth Amendment: From U.S. Grant to Lyndon B. Johnson’s Voting Rights Act Inaugural symposium hosted by the Ulysses S. Grant Presidential Library and Mississippi State University. Papers and panel submissions are due 1 April 2015. For more information, visit the website for the event . 23-27 September 2015 Sheraton Atlanta Hotel, Atlanta, Georgia 100th convention of the Association for the Study of African-American Life and History The theme is “A Century of Black Life, History, and Culture.” Two members of our Department of History will participate in roundtable discussions: Dr Aram Goudsouzian will be on the roundtable for “Sports History as Civil Rights History” Dr Chris Johnson will be on the roundtable for “Stokely Carmichael: His Life and Legacy” For more information, visit the website for the ASALH and the Facebook page for the convention . October 2015 1-3 October 2015 Eastern Kentucky University, Richmond, Kentucky 31st Ohio Valley Historical Conference The conference, sponsored by the History Department of Eastern Kentucky University, has as its theme “The Sixties: A Fifty-Year Retrospective.” Papers addressing this theme will be given preference, although a broad range of subjects, including regional, American, and non-American topics, and interdisciplinary panels and round tables are also welcome. Submission of complete panels is encouraged, but individual papers are accepted. Abstracts for papers should be approximately 200 words, typed, and single-spaced. Both paper presenters and commentators should upload a CV to the OVHC webpage . The abstract and CV should be received no later than 1 May 2015, to guarantee consideration. The Program Committee will announce selections and send out additional information as soon as possible. The OVHC webpage has complete information, including a flyer for the call for papers , textual information about the call for papers , information about the host city , and a map of the Eastern Kentucky University campus . A secure link for registration for the conference will be added later. The coordinator for the conference is Dr Thomas A. Appleton, who graduated with honors in history and foreign languages from then-Memphis State University in 1971. Dr Appleton received his PhD from the University of Kentucky, edited publications for the Kentucky Historical Society for many years, and since 2000 has been professor of history at Eastern Kentucky University. You may communicate with him by email at Tom.appleton@eku.edu or ovhc2015@eku.edu . 16 October 2015 Time to be announced 456 Patterson Hall 2nd Annual Shaheen Symposium This symposium on the theme of “Keepin’ it real: The Languages of Authenticity” anticipates the lecture to be delivered on 22 October 2015 by Dr Nicholas Watson , who will speak on the issue of vernacular translation of the Bible in the Naseeb Shaheen Memorial Lecture. The Naseeb Shaheen Memorial Lecture Committee of the University of Memphis English Department has issued a call for abstracts of proposed papers on a broad variety of issues involved in the use of the vernacular. Abstracts must be sent to the committee chair, Dr Cristina Maria Cervone ( cmcrvone@memphis.edu ), by 26 May 2015. 22 October 2015 Reception — 5:30 pm Lecture — 6 pm University Center Theatre Naseeb Shaheen Memorial Lecture Dr Nicholas Watson, professor of English at Harvard University, will speak on “The Word of God in the Mother Tongue, or, Why most of what we assume about the history of Bible translation is wrong.” The lecture series memoralizes the career of Dr Nasheeb Shaheen, who taught in the Department of English for forty years, until his death in 2009, teaching Shakespeare, English Renaissance literature, and the Bible as literature. He was an authority on Shakespeare's allusions to the Bible, documenting more than 1,200 references, and he collected English translations of the Bible made before the King James Version, particularly the Geneva Bible, so that he worked from the same Bibles that were available to Shakespeare. 29 October 2015 Lecture — 6 pm University Center River Room Reception to follow University of Memphis presents "An Evening with Winfield Dunn," the former governor of Tennessee. Our own Charles Crawford will be asking him questions and reflecting on the profound political transformations of the last forty years. This event is co-sponsored by The Department of History, The Department of Political Science, and University Libraries. History Happenings The department reports, as they occur, significant happenings that involve our faculty, students, staff, and alumni. Newsletter The department newsletter is filled with interesting articles and information about our award-winning faculty and students. Event Calendar Plan to attend events of historical interest. Contact Us Contact the Department of History at The University of Memphis. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/26/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .