#http://www.memphis.edu/libraries/instruction/instruct.php
Instructional Resources - Libraries - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Libraries About Services Resources Instruction Special Collections Technology Library Instruction Schedule a Tour Instruction Request Contact Us Home Libraries Library Instruction Instructional Resources Instructional Support Web in the Classroom Information Literacy Plagiarism Copyright Instructional Support Virtual Salt Robert Harris, Professor of English at Southern California College in Costa Mesa, has created a series of pages and links containing excellent advice on searching the Internet, teaching, writing, and other related topics. Ways faculty can help their students succeed in the UofM Libraries. Web in the Classroom WWW 4 Teachers This site, run by the South Central Regional Technology in Education Consortium, is mainly for K-12 teachers, but is also useful for college professors who need ideas to begin incorporating Web technology into their instruction. It includes a glossary of internet terms. Information Literacy American Library Association Presidential Committee on Information Literacy: Final Report This 1989 report defines and establishes a rationale for information literacy. In 1998 the committee issued A Progress Report on Information Literacy: An Update on the American Library Association Presidential Committee on Information Literacy: Final Report Plagiarism A Faculty Guide to Cyber-Plagiarism (University of Alberta) Tami Oliphant and Denise Koufogiannakis, Univeristy of Alberta Libraries, created this site to "examine the issues of plagiarism and cyber-plagiarism and what faculty can do to prevent, detect, and report plagiarism." It also includes a link to handouts for students. Virtual Salt: Anti-Plagiarism Strategies for Research Papers Robert Harris, an English professor for 25 years, recommends strategies for faculty to help "encourage students to value the assignment and to do their own work." Plagiarism: What It Is and How to Recognize and Avoid It This helpful page, provided by Writing Tutorial Services at Indiana University Bloomington, gives examples of acceptable and unacceptable paraphrasing. Copyright Copyright Help The site is managed jointly between the The University of Memphis Office of Legal Counsel and the Advanced Learning Center for the purpose of ensuring the entire campus community (faculty, staff, and students) understands and complies with current laws pertaining to the use of intellectual property in research and education. Instructors should use the site's checklist to determine if a copyrighted work in distance education complies with the TEACH Act. Reproduction of Copyrighted Works by Educators and Librarians . This segment of the copyright law answers many questions asked by faculty about providing copies of materials for instructional purposes. See United States Copyright Office (The Library of Congress) for more information about current copyright laws and legislation as well as information (and forms) for copyright applications. WIPO Copyright Treaty Text of the World Intellectual Property Organization Treaty from the Geneva Diplomatic Conference, December 2 to 20, 1996. University of Texas Crash Course in Copyright Easy-to-use site for learning about academic issues relating to copyright. Return to Top of Page This guide originally created by Janell Rudolph May 1999. Library Instruction Schedule a Tour Instruction Request Contact Us My Library Account Review your library account for due dates and more. Interlibrary Loan Request books, articles, and other research materials from other libraries. Reserve space Group study and presentation spaces available in the library. Ask-a-Librarian Got a question? Got a problem? Ask Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .