#http://www.memphis.edu/cas/scholarships/college-scholarships.php
College Scholarships - CAS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. College of Arts &amp; Sciences About Departments Research Scholarships Students Resources News Scholarships &amp; Funding Resources Departmental Not Discipline Specific Internships Assistantships Fellowships Link to Financial Aid UofM Scholarship Office Home CAS Scholarships College Scholarships College Scholarships [not discipline-specific] In addition to scholarships offered by departments within the College of Arts and Sciences, the College also offers several scholarship opportunities. The following scholarships are for undergraduate College of Arts and Sciences students only, unless otherwise indicated. Each fall information on scholarship opportunities and the scholarship application process for the next academic year is distributed by the Scholarship Office. Please review the information for the scholarships below to see if you qualify. If you have questions, contact the Scholarship Office at 678-3231 or at scholarships@memphis.edu . Reed C. Baskin Legacy Scholarship in honor of Mildred and Carl Baskin This scholarship is awarded to a student majoring in any discipline in the College of Arts and Sciences who has a minimum ACT score of 23, who lives in the Mid-South region, and who is a proven leader in the community. Recipients must maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0 and participate in fifteen hours of community service. College of Arts and Sciences Alumni Chapter Book Scholarship This scholarship is awarded to students who are enrolled full-time as juniors or seniors in the College of Arts and Sciences, and who have a minimum GPA of 3.25. General Herbert L. Grills Memorial Scholarship This scholarship is awarded to a student majoring in any discipline in the College of Arts and Sciences. Freshmen with a minimum ACT of 27, and upperclassmen with a minimum GPA of 2.80 are eligible. Students must be enrolled full-time. Dr. Roger Hiatt Pre-Med Studies Scholarship The recipients of this scholarship shall be students enrolled at the University of Memphis and pursuing Pre-Med Studies. Preference will be given to rising sophomores and juniors with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.50, reflecting academic success at the University and promise in medical school. Recipients may reapply for funding for a subsequent year providing they maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.5. Joe D. Hinson Scholarship The Joe D. Hinson Scholarship will provide a scholarship to a student within the College of Arts &amp; Sciences who may need financial help to complete their degree. These students are typically in their final semester(s), have exhausted other sources of funding, have financial need, and generally do not qualify for other merit-based funding. The criteria are intended to remain as flexible as possible so as not to prevent a deserving student from receiving these funds, but provide some guidance regarding the intended recipients. The overall mission for this fund is to help these students finish their degree and be productive citizens after graduation. Huey's Scholarship This scholarship is awarded to students majoring in any discipline in the College of Arts and Sciences. Students must be enrolled full-time and have proven academic merit. Dr. Russell A. Jones Memorial Scholarship This scholarship is awarded to seniors majoring in Biology, Chemistry, or a related science discipline, and who are pursuing careers at physicians. Recipients must be full-time students, and have and maintain a minimum GPA of 3.0 overall and in their major. Matthew Seth McGaughran Scholarship The recipients of this scholarship shall be qualified and deserving students enrolled at The University of Memphis. Scholarship recipients shall be students pursuing a degree in History, Sociology, or Geography through the College of Arts and Sciences, have a minimum ACT score of 23, or a grade point average of 3.00. Preference will be given to high-ability students with a demonstrated financial need. Dr. H. Franklin Miller Memorial Scholarship This award(s) shall be given to junior or senior pre-dentistry students enrolled in the College of Arts &amp; Sciences. Recipients must demonstrate a financial need and have a 3.25 GPA. Applicants must submit one letter of recommendation and a statement on their interest in a career in dentistry. Joseph N. Mitchell and Nancy Mitchell Scholarship This scholarship is awarded to transfer students who have normally completed two years of college from a four-year institution or an Associates Degree from a community college. Students must be enrolled full-time, with a declared major in the College of Arts and Sciences. They must maintain a GPA of 3.25. There is a possibility of renewal for a total of four semesters. Candidates must apply each year for renewed support. Marcus Orr Humanities Scholarship This scholarship is awarded to students pursuing a degree in the Humanities (English, Foreign Languages, Philosophy, History, Art History, or Musicology). Students must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.50 or other demonstrated potential for academic distinction. Students must be enrolled full-time. Dr. Naseeb Shaheen Scholarship This scholarship is awarded to students majoring in Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics, or Geography who plan to become high school teachers in one or more of these subjects. Students must be enrolled full-time, be classified at juniors, seniors, or entering MAT/Secondary Licensure students, display financial need, maintain a cumulative GPA of at least 2.50, and be residents of Tennessee or of one of the following: Desoto or Marshall County in Mississippi, Crittenden County in Arkansas. Thomas N. Stern Pre-Med Scholarship endowed by the Stern Cardiovascular Center This scholarship is awarded to students pursuing pre-med studies. Preference is given to seniors with a minimum GPA of 3.50, with demonstrated financial need, acceptance into medical school, and a permanent address that is within a 75-mile radius of the University of Memphis. Scholarships &amp; Funding Resources Departmental Not Discipline Specific Internships Assistantships Fellowships Link to Financial Aid UofM Scholarship Office Apply now for an Undergraduate Degree in the College of Arts &amp; Sciences Pursue your dream of having a degree, broaden your career choices and gain the confidence you need to succeed! The College offers Master's and Doctoral Degrees Are you interested in a new profession? Would you like to enhance the knowledge and experience you already possess? Community Engagement We are committed to teaching and serving the Memphis and Mid-South community through our programs and events. Contact Us Dean's Office Contacts, Advising, Department Chairs... Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/12/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .