#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT7135M50.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus MGMT7135 Seminar in Leadership Fall 2015 2 Credit Hours (Last updated: 0 8 / 21 /2015 ) Instructor: Dr. Frederick D. Ellrich Phone1: 901.678 - 5 7 88 Phone2: 901.492.1768 E - mail: fellrich@memphis.edu Office: Collierville Center, 215 W. Poplar Ave., Collierville, TN 38017 Twitter: Doctor_Scoop Skype ID: psulion71 LinkedIn: Office Hours: None email & phone Course Description Theoretical and practical consideration of leadership in high performing business organizations; detailed analysis of relevant organizational behavior concepts; particular focus on theories of motivation, styles of leadership, and emotional intelligence. Course Overview An examination of leadership from the perspective of the individual within the organization and the con cept of self leadership featuring topics that emphasize a variety of self - assessments, personal reflection, and a commitment to demonstrate leadership in a variety of venues. This course focuses on major themes of leadership and organizational behavior w ith the intent of identifying specific principles and behaviors that drive the attainment of organizational objectives and worker/employee engagement. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: None , although it assumed that you have experience with online instruction. Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : The 360 Degree Leader Workbook - Maxwell - ISBN 978 - 0 - 78526 - 095 - 0 The Five Dysfunction of a Team - (1st Edition) - Lencioni - ISBN 978 - 0 - 7879 - 6075 - 9 Strengths - Based Leadership Rath & Conchie ISBN 978 - 1 - 59562 - 025 - 5 MUST BE A NEW BOOK Leadership - Theory & Practice (6th Edition) - Northouse ISBN 978 - 1 - 4522 - 0340 - 9 Location of Course Materials : Other than the tests, materials will be found in course content. Students should check cours e news multiple times per week. Course Objectives : Students should be able , at the end of the course , to : 1. Demonstrate an understanding of the complexi ty and challenges of leadership, including various styles, theories, and models of leadership. 2. Demonstrate an understanding of various approaches to leadership. 3. Describe the five functions of a high - performing team and how to attain them. 4. Document personal leadership including the role of personal presence in leadership eff ectiveness 5. Interpret personal surveys/assessments to indicate strengths and areas of improvement 6. Operationalize a plan to develop their personal leadership style as to building influence in organizations Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree MBA Course Methodology This is an online course and much of the learning will be self - managed and self - paced. This has d learning style. Everything will be done fully online and asynchronously (meaning the class will not meet at specific times). The keystone of this course is the group discussion. This is an opportunity to explore the concept of leadership in a fashion t hat makes it very personal and very applicable to your world. We will spend our time reading, discussing, reflecting and writing. Y our work will reflect a superb knowledge of the material as demonstrated by references to the text s and other resources in support of critical thinking, analysis , and application on your part. It is critical that you are prepared and on time with your work. Given that this class would normally meet for two hours each week and have an hour of work for each hour of class time, prepare to invest four hours (on average) per week. Student's Expectations: There are certain things you can expect from me including: well - organized and engaging learning experience, response to emails within two (2) business days, and feedback on all work submitted within 7 - 10 calendar days. You can also expect to be equipped to assert your leadership influence in any venue by the end of the semester. Course Topics Module 1 Topics: The Five Dysfunctions of a team We examine what it takes to be a highly - productive team. Module 2 Topics: Introduction to Leadership: a leadership framework and the various approaches to describing & defining leadership Module 3 Topics: Leadership Theories a survey of the most commonly found leadership theories. Module 4 Topics: Strengths - Based Leadership we take advantage of the enormous amount of research that the Gallup organization has done re garding effective organizations. Module 6: Leadership Models: an examination of a variety of popular leade rship models Module 5: The 360 Degree Leader John Maxwell asserts that we can lead from anyplace in an organization in a 360 degree fashion up, across, down. Module 7: Special Topics of Leadership: Women, culture, and ethics in leadership. Grading and Evaluation Criteria You will be evaluated based on scoring rubrics found in the getting started section of course content. Formal Assessed Activities (per module) Discussion 25 Reflection paper /video 25 50 Final Exam A final group project is required instead of an exam . More details are in course content. Final Course Grades Module assignments 7 X 50 Points = 3 5 0 Final Project 1 X 50 Points = 5 0 400 Grading Scale 360 - 400 --- A 320 - 359 --- B 280 - 319 --- C 240 - 279 --- D Schedule of Activities Week of: August 24 & 31 Module One: Introductions & Five Dysfunctions of a Team September 7 & 14 Module Two: Approaches to Leadership September 21 & 28 Module Three: Leadership Theories October 5 & 12 Module Four: Strengths - Based Leadership October 19 & 26 Module Five: Leadership Models November 2 & 9 Module Six: 360 Leadership Novem ber 16 & 23 Module Seven: Special Topics in Leadership November 30 & Dec 7 Final Project Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all official course correspondence at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not re gularly checking your email, with the instructor only with your University email . NOTE: It will never be appropriate to email your assignments. Contact me and I will advise. Attendance: Since this is an online class taught asynchronously, there are no scheduled meeting times. Thus, formal attendance will not be taken. However, you are expected to stay active and engaged throughout the academic term and keep up with the schedule of activi ties. Your full engagement in the class begins on the first day of the semester and should be maintained until the last assignment is submitted. For students receiving federal student loans, any lack of engagement in the course may be treated as non - atte ndance and potentially impact access to student loans in the future. Adding/Dropping : If you have questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to this page on the Regis . Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a heating. Should Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questio ns about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Participation: To be successful in this c ourse as a student, you must stay active and involved throughout the entire semester. Students are expected participate in all interactive aspects of the course. You should also regularly communicate with the instructor as part of your overall learning exp erience, check into the course frequently for announcements (usually on the course home page), and actively participate in threaded discussion events (both formal and informal). You should plan on logging into the course at least three times each week. Classroom or Online Behavior: All participants in the course should be considerate of the other course participants and treat them (as well as their opinions) with respect. The class will operate under the assumption that any and all feedback offered is po sitive in nature and that the intentions of the person(s) providing feedback are strictly honorable. Insensitivity in this area will not be tolerated. If you have any questions about online communication, you should review the Fogelman College's Netiquette website . Because of the nature of this particular course appropriate behavior is critical to your success! Late Assignments: Assignments and projects may be submitted anyti me up to and including the date due. Please due dates for formally assessed work. If your work is not submitted on time, the instructor reserves the option to not accept late assignments depending upon the circumstances and appropriate communication between the student and the instructor. your work. Extra Credit: Ther e is no extra credit offered in this course. Your final grade will be computed based on your work on the formal/assessed activities previously described in this syllabus. Reporting Illness or Absence: There is no extra credit offered in this course. Your final grade will be computed based on your work on the formal/assessed activities previously described in this syllabus. Inclement Weather: Although it would seem that this has nothing to do with an online course, you are expected to have online access at all times. Syllabus Changes: The instructor reserves the right to make changes as necessary to this syllabus. If changes are necessitated during the term of the course, the instructor will immediately notify students of such changes both by individual email communication and posting both notification and nature of change(s) on the course bulletin board. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance