#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/programs/lecture-series.php
Lecture Series - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections Programs Overview Conferences Lecture Series Research Grants National Book Award Hooks African American Male Initiative (HAAMI) Hooks Graduate Assistants Hooks Scholars Hooks Fellows Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks Programs Lecture Series Lecture Series Throughout the year, the Hooks Institute frequently hosts or cosponsors events with other Interdisciplinary Centers at the University of Memphis, where prominent scholars, political figures, and social activists from across the nation lecture in their area of expertise. Additionally, visiting guests are encouraged to meet with small groups of students and faculty for in-depth discussions on historical and current issues of social justice. For university students, most of whom were born a decade or more after the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., the lectures reveal issues that affect their daily lives, but which are too often treated as dusty artifacts of a distant past. For community members, the lecture series offers continuing education and affirms a commitment to building a stronger and more racially and socially just community, nation, and world. All of our events are open and free to the public, unless otherwise noted. For a complete list of all of our events, please visit the calendar page . Past Lectures Reflections on Living in Service to Others: Dr. Benjamin Hooks and the Heirs of His Legacy Rodney Slater, former U.S. Secretary of Transportation February 9, 2012 Higher Education: Meeting the Needs of the 21st Century Richard D. Legon, President American Association of Governing Boards of Universities and Colleges April 8, 2010 Economic Mobility and the Power of Post-Secondary Education John Morton, Managing Director The Pew Charitable Trusts April 9, 2010 Raggedy Schools: Education's Untold Truth Steve Perry Capital Preparatory Magnet School (Hartford, CT) April 9, 2010 Civil Rights and Social Justice: Past, Present, and the Future Benjamin L. Hooks Capitol Hill (Washington, DC) Oct. 6. 2009, and University of Memphis November 4, 2009 Through the Fire! Through The Flood! Reverend Dr. Jeremiah A. Wright, Jr. (Chicago, IL) April 3, 2009 Forgetting the Righteous: The Fayette County Movement in History and Memory Charles Payne, Ph. D. (Duke University) October 28, 2006 Repairing the Past: Racial Violence after World War I and the Politics and Reconciliation Chris Capozzola, Ph. D. (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) October 20, 2006 Worker Justice in a Global Society: Revisiting Martin Luther King's Unfinished Agenda Michael Honey, Ph D. (University of Michigan) April 3, 2006 After Race: Racism after Multiculturalism Antonia Darder, Ph. D. (University of Illinois) April 1, 2005 African Americans and the Social Contract Bill E. Lawson, Ph. D. (Michigan State University) September 16, 2004 Civil Rights in the Era of Social Wrongs Patricia Williams, J. D. (Columbia University Law School) October 12, 2004 Fifty Years After Brown Lee C. Bollinger, J. D. (President, Columbia University) February 12, 2004 Programs Overview Conferences Lecture Series Research Grants National Book Award Hooks African American Male Initiative (HAAMI) Hooks Graduate Assistants Hooks Scholars Hooks Fellows Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .