#http://www.memphis.edu/music/upcoming/
Upcoming Performances - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Upcoming Performances Home Music Upcoming At the School of Music in Memphis, TN, you can fill your world with music, like no place else. Come join us for an exciting season of music performances this fall. Concerts feature student ensembles, faculty performances, and guest artist recitals. For more information, please call 901-678-2541. NOVEMBER DECEMBER University of Memphis Jazz Combos Tuesday, October 27, 7:30 pm Harris Concert Hall Admission is free Small student jazz groups playing the music of jazz greats and original compositions. Contemporary Chamber Players Wednesday, October 28, 7:30 pm Harris Concert Hall Admission is free The University of Memphis' resident new music ensemble. Contemporary Chamber Players will premiere works written by University of Memphis student composers. University of Memphis Wind Ensemble Thursday, October 29, 7:30 pm Harris Concert Hall $15 General Admission; $10 Seniors; free to Students, Faculty and Staff with ID For this evening's concert, the ensemble will present a program ranging from cornerstones of the band repertoire to works that represent the best of today's composers. University of Memphis Percussion Ensemble Sunday, November 1, 7:30 pm Harris Concert Hall Admission is free Music from composers around the world. Timothy Shiu, violin THIS RECITAL HAS BEEN CANCELLED Monday, November 2, 7:30 pm Harris Concert Hall Admission is free Faculty Jazz Ensemble Tuesday, November 3, 7:30 pm Harris Concert Hall Admission is free The jazz faculty of the University of Memphis presenting small group repertoire from the jazz greats. Sound Fuzion Thursday, November 5, 7:30 pm Harris Concert Hall $15 General Admission; $10 Seniors; free to Students, Faculty and Staff with ID Sound Fuzion will raise the roof of Harris Concert Hall with the best in pop, rock, and country music. New Sounds Friday, November 6, 7:30 pm Harris Concert Hall Admission is free New music written by University of Memphis student composers. University of Memphis Soloists Competition Saturday, November 7, 1:30 pm Harris Concert Hall Admission is free Top student musicians compete for the School of Music's most prestigious performance prize. Winners will be soloists with the University of Memphis Symphony Orchestra and the Wind Ensemble in the spring. Fluterama/Clarimania:"Flutes and Clarinets in Bulk" Saturday, November 7, 7:30 pm Harris Concert Hall Admission is free Dr. Oskar Espina Ruiz, clarinet Monday, November 9, 7:30 pm Psychology Auditorium Admission is free Dr. Oskar Espina Ruiz from the University of North Carolina School of the Arts will perform works for solo clarinet. University Singers and Chamber Choir Sunday, November 15, 3:00 pm Idlewild Presbyterian Church 1750 Union Ave. Admission is free University of Memphis Symphonic Band and Tiger Youth Wind Ensemble Tuesday, November 17, 7:30 pm Michael D. Rose Theater Admission is free The Symphonic Band performs the masterworks of concert band literature, designed for the rich sonorities of an expanded instrumentation, as well as new compositions for the large ensemble. The Tiger Youth Wind Ensemble is comprised of talented high-school wind and percussion students from the metropolitan Memphis area. The concert will conclude with a combined performance between the two ensembles. University of Memphis Opera presents The Beggar's Opera by John Gay, realized from the original airs by Benjamin Britten Friday, November 20, 7:30 pm Harris Concert Hall $20 General Admission; $15 Seniors; free to Students, Faculty and Staff with ID The University of Memphis Opera proudly presents The Beggar's Opera by John Gay, realized by Benjamin Britten. Follow the story of the swashbuckling highwayman Macheath as he is chased by ladies looking for love and men looking for money. UofM Band-O-Rama November 21, 7:30 pm Michael D. Rose Theater Admission is free University of Memphis Opera presents The Beggar's Opera by John Gay, realized from the original airs by Benjamin Britten Sunday, November 22, 3:00 pm Harris Concert Hall $20 General Admission; $15 Seniors; free to Students, Faculty and Staff with ID The University of Memphis Opera proudly presents The Beggar's Opera by John Gay, realized by Benjamin Britten. Follow the story of the swashbuckling highwayman Macheath as he is chased by ladies looking for love and men looking for money. Southern Comfort Jazz Orchestra Tuesday, November 24, 7:30 pm Harris Concert Hall $15 General Admission; $10 Seniors; free to Students, Faculty and Staff with ID Music of the big band repertoire played by the top jazz ensemble from the University of Memphis. University of Memphis Chamber Orchestra Monday, November 30, 7:30 pm Harris Concert Hall Admission is free Jazz Singers and Jazz Ensemble II Tuesday, December 1, 7:30 pm Harris Concert Hall Admission is free School of Music Holiday Concert Wednesday, December 2, 12:30 pm Harris Concert Hall Admission is free The holidays will be filled with music and memories as the School of Music ushers in the season. Performances by student ensembles will include old favorites and some new, original works University of Memphis Wind Ensemble Wednesday, December 2, 7:30 pm Harris Concert Hall $15 General Admission; $10 Seniors; free to Students, Faculty and Staff with ID For this evening's concert, the ensemble will present a program ranging from cornerstones of the band repertoire to works that represent the best of today's composers. Concerts International presents the Eric Ruske Horn Trio Thursday, December 3, 7:30 pm Harris Concert Hall For tickets, contact Concerts International at 901-527-3067. Free tickets are available to U of M students in the Music Office. Eric Ruske horn; Jennifer Frautschi, violin; and Gloria Chen, piano Upcoming Performances Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .