#http://www.memphis.edu/cs/people/faculty_pages/dipankar-dasgupta.php
Dipankar Dasgupta - Computer Science - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Computer Science About Future Students Current Students Research People Contact Hiring People Full-Time Faculty Joint Appointments Part-Time Instructors Staff Postdoctoral Fellows &amp; Researchers Graduate Assistants Industry Advisory Board Retired Faculty Home Computer Science People Dipankar Dasgupta Dipankar Dasgupta Dr. Pat E. Burlison Professor of Computer Science and Interim Chair Phone 901.678.4147 Email dasgupta@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.1506 Office Dunn Hall 333/375 Office Hours Call for hours Degree: Ph.D, The University of Strathclyde, 1994 Teaching Interests: Network security, computer forensics Research Interests: Bio-inspired computing, cyber security Personal Website: Dr. Dipankar Dasgupta joined the University of Memphis as an assistant professor in 1997 and became a full professor in 2004. He is the recipient of the 2011-2012 Willard R. Sparks Eminent Faculty Award, the highest distinction and most prestigious honor given to a faculty member by the University of Memphis. Prof. Dasgupta is one of the founding fathers of the field of artificial immune systems, making major contributions in applying bio-inspired approaches to intrusion detection, spam detection, and building survivable systems . His latest book, Immunological Computation, is a graduate-level textbook published by CRC Press in 2008. He has also edited a Springer-Verlag book on artificial immune systems and another book on genetic algorithms. Prof. Dasgupta has more than 200 publications. A search with his name in Google Scholar indicates more than 3,800 citations, and an academic search at Microsoft shows that he has collaborated with 106 co-authors -- extraordinary testimony to the broad influence of his contributions within the research community. He is the only Computer Science faculty member in Tennessee to be featured on UCLA's list of computer scientists whose h-index is above 40. In addition to Prof. Dasgupta's research and creative activities, he spearheads the University of Memphis' education, training, and outreach activities on Information Assurance. He is the founding Director of the Center for Information Assurance, which is a nationally designated Center for Academic Excellence in Information Assurance Education and Research. He developed the University of Memphis' Graduate Certificate Program in Information Assurance and has established research collaborations with Oak Ridge National Laboratory. People Full-Time Faculty Joint Appointments Part-Time Instructors Staff Postdoctoral Fellows &amp; Researchers Graduate Assistants Industry Advisory Board Retired Faculty News &amp; Events Weekly colloquium talks and other events Career Opportunities Internship information and job postings for students Degree Programs Information on our degree and certificate programs Courses Recent syllabi for our courses Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .