#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/creative-works/publications.php
Publications - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections Publications &amp; Documentaries Documentaries Duty of the Hour Memphis 13 Freedom's Front Line The Movement: A Cultural Revolution Publications Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks Creative Works Publications Hooks Institute Publications 2014 Daphene McFerren, Steven Soifer, Gregory Washington, Elena Delavega, John Gnuschke University of Memphis Faculty Fellows A Call for Collective Action: Tackling Social Challenges in Memphis 2013 Chunrong Jia University of Memphis Uneven Magnitude of Disparities in Cancer Risks from Air Toxics 2010 D'Ann Penner University of Memphis Overcoming: The Hidden Fury of Hurricane Katrina's Aftermath and Implications for the Future of New Orleans 2009 Conference Overview The Obama Phenomenon: Race and Political Discourse in the United States Today, Friday and Saturday, April 3-4, 2009 Wilfredo Gomez Bucknell University Change Gonna Come: Obama's Rhetorical Genius and its Impact on Hip Hop Usame Tunagur Ohio University Killing Two Birds with One Stone: A Muslim Obama Stephanie Li University of Rochester Barack Obama: In Search of His Father, in Search of Himself Vernellia R. Randall University of Dayton School of Law Racism, Stress and Health: Why Obama's Class Based Approach Won't Eliminate Racial and Health Gaps Jonathan Sciarcon University of California at Santa Barbara Anti-Zionist by Association: Conservative American-Jewish Perceptions of Candidate Obama Bill E. Lawson Dept. of Philosophy, University of Memphis Towards a More Perfect Union: Obama and Colorblind Public Celia Anderson, University of Memphis Adrienne Dixson, Ohio State University "What Are You?" A "Post-Race" Obama America Meets Critical Race Theory Thandeka Chapman University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee Is a Post-Obama Period the Same as Post-Colonialism 2005 Susan Ratner Integration, School Finance Reform, and Milliken II Remedies: The Time Has Come for Equal Educational Opportunity Antonia Darder Critical Pedagogy in a Time of Uncertainty: Forging a New Movement Barbara Ellen Smith Across Races and Nations: Social Justice Organizing in the Transnational South Doug Imig American Standards for American Children: Mobilizing for Child Care during the 20th Century 2004 Kenneth Andrews Local Civil Rights Struggles and School Desegregation Rosalee Clawson, Katherine Tate, and Eric N. Waltenberg 'For Better and For Worse?': Black Opinion on the US Supreme Court Since Brown Kenneth Holland Compliance with Brown v. Board of Education: The Role of Elementary Secondary Education Act of 1965 David Meyer Signals and Spillover: Brown v. Board of Education and Other Social Movements Charles Payne The Whole United States is Southern!!: Brown v. Board and the Mystification of Race Lauren Edelman Legal Endogeneity and the Limits of Equal Opportunity Kim Williams Defying the Civil Rights Lobby: The American Multicultural Movement Barbara Ellen Smith Racial Formations in the 'Nuevo' South Doug Imig Building a Social Movement for America's Children Steven Gardiner The More Things Change: Immigration, Demographics and the Rise of White Identity Politics in America Kate Kane Negotiating Difference and Building Community: Race, Nationality and Normatives in Gay/Lesbian/Bisexual Civil Rights Activism 2003 Kristopher Bryan Burrell Would Brown Make It in New York City? The First Phase of the Battle for Public School Integration, 1954-1957 Brian James Daugherity From Desegregation to Integration: The History of the United States Supreme Court's Historic Green v. New Kent County School Board, Virginia, Decision (1968) Seneca Vaught The White Citizen's Council of Montgomery, 1955-1958: The Politics of Countermovement, Moral Culture and Civic Bigotry 2002 Kristopher Bryan Burrell Emancipation, Elevation, and Education: Black Education in New York City during the 1830's Kenneth Stuart Jolly It Happened Here Too: The Black Liberation Movement of St.Louis, Missouri Publications &amp; Documentaries Documentaries Duty of the Hour Memphis 13 Freedom's Front Line The Movement: A Cultural Revolution Publications Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .