#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/univ_coll.php
UNIV Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning UNIV Courses UNIVERSITY COLLEGE (UNIV) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: UNIV 7003-05. Special Topics. (3). Selected topics course based on current as well as emerging issues and/or trends of topical interest. UNIV 7000 - Fndtns Liberal Studies (3) Analytical introduction to graduate liberal studies and its theoretical framework; readings in and concerning the humanities, social sciences, and natural sciences. PREREQUISITE: Approval of MALS program coordinator. Must be taken during the first semester in the MALS program. UNIV 7001 - Grad Asst Wksp Teachng (3) Overview and practical demonstrations in the art of teaching; discussion of research procedures. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. Credits earned in this course may not be used to fulfill degree requirements in the Master of Arts in Liberal Studies. Prerequisite: Graduate assistantship in University College. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. UNIV 7002 - Seminar in University Studies (3) Analysis of contemporary issues and trends in various topics. Course may be repeated for a maximum of 6 credits. UNIV 7100 - Rsrch/Intrdiscipl Study (3) Methods of inquiry and research appropriate to interdisciplinary studies. PREREQUISITE: Approval of MALS major advisor and MALS program coordinator. UNIV 7110 - Internship (1-6) Experiential learning allowing students the opportunity to supplement academic instruction and demonstrate application as well as development of knowledge and skills in a practical setting related to student's educational objectives. PREREQUISITE: Approval of Internship Contract (S/U). UNIV 7111 - Data-Based Decision-making (3) This course will examine how you interpret research data and turn it into useful or meaningful information. Students will study the use of business intelligence to prepare and present useful information in supporting conclusions and decision-making. UNIV 7115 - Experiential Learning Credit (1-9) A systematic process for evaluating and credentialing graduate-level learning gained in a variety of contexts. Students will provide documentation of graduate-level knowledge and skills garnered in non-traditional settings to expert faculty reviewers. UNIV 7200 - Liberal Studies Sem (3) Interdisciplinary examination of major issue, historical period, theme. Subject matter will change from semester to semester. PREREQUISITE: Admission to MALS program or permission of instructor and MALS program coordinator. UNIV 7205 - Guerrilla Warfare & Terrorism (3) An examination of the history of, and complex relationship between, guerrilla warfare and terrorism emphasizing their impact on American society in the 21st century. UNIV 7210 - Rise and Fall of Empires (3) May serve as a course substitute for UNIV 7200 Liberal Studies Seminar. UNIV 7300 - Prof Issues & Ethics (3) Classical approaches to ethics presented with their application to decision points confronted in various professions, as well as analysis of issues of diversity and moral responsibility in professional practice. UNIV 7350 - Globalization&Professns (3) Examines relationship between globalization and the professions. UNIV 7796 - Independent Study (1-3) Research into interdisciplinary area of study supportive of individualized MALS program. May be repeated once. PREREQUISITE: Approval of MALS out-of-class learning contract by instructor of record, student?s major advisor, and MALS program coordinator. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. UNIV 7997 - Special Project (3) Supervised research based upon knowledge and skills learned in MALS program. Creative or performance component acceptable. PREREQUISITE: Successful completion of UNIV 7100; approval of MALS special project contract by major advisor and MALS program coordinator. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. UNIV 7998 - Professional Project (3) Supervised research that serves as the integrative culmination for the Master of Professional Studies student. PREREQUISITE: Approval of Professional Project contract by faculty advisor and the MPS program coordinator.Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. PROFESSIONAL STUDIES (PRST) Prerequisites: Admission to the MPS Program or Departmental approval unless otherwise noted. PRST 7040 - Human Resources Mgmt (3) This course emphasizes the development of skills for dealing with selected aspects of human resource management. It aims to enhance the students? ability to apply theoretical concepts and alternative approaches for dealing with common issues concerning the human side of the enterprise. The course is geared to serve the needs of line and staff administrators in supervisory positions. PRST 7100 - Prof Envron/Issue/Ethic (3) Classical approaches to ethics presented with their application to decision points confronted in various professions, as well as analysis of issues of diversity and moral responsibility in professional practice. PRST 7105 - Project Planning & Scheduling (3) Contemporary methods used in project planning and scheduling; emphasis on critical path method (CPM) with computer application; solution of actual problems stressed. Prerequisites: Admission to the MPS Program or Departmental approval. PRST 7200 - Globalization/Profsns (3) Analysis of globalization and its effects on the workplace, including the interactions of advancing communications technology, multi-national corporations, and global societies. PRST 7300 - Research Methods (3) The study and application of research methods appropriate to professional studies. PRST 7310 - Leadership/Organization (3) Organizational leadership is a course designed to inform the individual about the structure and behavior of actors at all levels of the organization. PRST 7400 - Instr Dsgn Train/Develpmt (3) Organizational leadership is a course designed to inform the individual about the structure and behavior of actors at all levels of the organization. PRST 7410 - Evaluation of Learning (3) Evaluation of Learning, covers the concepts and skills used in evaluation models, theories, and best practices. Prerequisites: PRST 7600 or PRST 7770 and PRST 7400. PRST 7420 - Org Needs Assessment (3) The purpose of this course is to provide an overview of the processes and techniques used to conduct an organizational analysis and then identify training needs in private and public organizations. PRST 7430 - Adv Instr Desgn/Train&Devel (3) This course builds on basic instructional design theory and enhances it with considerations necessary to build and deliver instructionally sound training materials across multiple media, focusing on electronic media delivery systems. This course will include an in-depth look at media selection strategies, interface design considerations, and instructional strategies for developing online training. PRST 7440 - Engage the Adult Online Learnr (3) This course specifically addresses web-based learning environments with a particular focus on student engagement and interaction. Developing alternative means of training employees has become of greater interest to employers recently, and e-training can give employers a mechanism for cutting costs, an alternative method for delivering training at any time and any place, a means for remediation of employee training, and an opportunity for employees to develop learning communities. Prerequisite: PRST 7430. PRST 7450 - Computer-Based Instruction (3) Students will study leadership from a historical and contemporary perspective. They will identify, apply, and reflect on aspects of leadership development, including concepts of personal change toward effective leadership in a changing environment. Topics cover historical development of leadership theories, personal assessment and development, values and ethics, motivation, power, followership, group dynamics, diversity in leadership, controversy with civility, change process, and citizenship. PRST 7470 - Facilitation of Learning (3) Prepares trainers to design and facilitate programs that work effectively and efficiently with adult learners; provides necessary theory and experience to ensure competent facilitation of learning; students plan and conduct training sesstions and receive feedback. PRST 7500 - Foundation/Leadership (3) Students will study leadership from a historical and contemporary perspective. They will identify, apply, and reflect on aspects of leadership development, including concepts of personal change toward effective leadership in a changing environment. Topics cover historical development of leadership theories, personal assessment and development, values and ethics, motivation, power, followership, group dynamics, diversity in leadership, controversy with civility, change process, and citizenship. PRST 7600 - Statistical Analysis (3) The purpose of this course is to provide students with an introductory survey of the many applications of descriptive and inferential statistics. PRST 7700 - Conflict Mgmt/Negotiatn (3) Negotiation and Conflict Management presents negotiation theory ? strategies and styles ? within an employment context. PRST 7770 - Comp Based Decsn Model (3) Modeling and analyzing managerial problems on spreadsheets. Working knowledge of Excel will be assumed so that we can focus on the modeling aspects. The spreadsheet modeling experience in this course will enhance not only analytical problem solving capabilities but also spreadsheet skills of even an experienced Excel user. Prerequisite: PRST 7300. PRST 7800 - Organizational Change Skills (3) This course examines concepts and techniques of organization development (OD) and the leadership skills required for organizational change. Based on behavioral science knowledge and methods, OD interventions facilitate planned organizational change and renewal. PRST 7910 - Employment & HR Law (3) This course provides an overview of legal issues affecting the administration of employment issues, human resource management and leadership. The course focuses on policies and laws that impact human resource decisions in organizations. Prerequisite PRST 7040. PRST 7920 - Diversity in the Workplace (3) Examines processes and techniques to conduct an organizational analysis and identify training needs in an organizational environment, with emphasis on how language, gender, race, tradition, education, economic structure, and organizational philosphy interact. PRST 7930 - Compensation and Benefits (3) The focus of this course is on management tools designed to ensure that the right people get the right pay for achieving organizational objectives in the right way. Prerequisite: PRST 7040. PRST 7940 - Recruitment,Selection,Retentio (3) In addition to staff planning, students in this course will learn, step by step, the employee selection process, from pre-recruitment through hiring. Specific strategies for attracting potential employees, interview preparation and interview techniques, and reference checking will be examined. Additionally students will examine the usefulness of various methods used in job analysis, testing and measurements, internal and external market analysis, and retention plans. Prerequisite: PRST 7040. PRST 7998 - Professional Project (3) Supervised research that serves as the integrative culmination for the Master of Professional Studies student. PREREQUISITE: Approval of Professional Project contract by faculty advisor and the MPS program coordinator.Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ELPA 7560 - Small Group Leadership (3) This course examines how group behavior affects organizational effectiveness, decision making, conflict resolution, and strategies for efficient group and task management. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .