#http://www.memphis.edu/libraries/instruction/policies.php
Instruction Room Policies - Libraries - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Libraries About Services Resources Instruction Special Collections Technology Library Instruction Schedule a Tour Instruction Request Contact Us Home Libraries Library Instruction Instruction Room Policies QuickSearch Articles Journal Titles Databases Search for books, articles, media, and more: Advanced QuickSearch | Classic Catalog | Research Guides | WorldCat Search most databases for articles: All Databases | Find Full Text from Citation | Research Guides Find Journals, Newspapers, and Magazines by Title or ISSN: Title begins with Title equals Title contains all words ISSN equals Browse Journals | Find Full Text from Citation | Research Guides Find a Database Using Title or Keywords: All Databases | Research Guides | Most Used Databases: Business Source Premier CINAHL Complete Comm. and Mass Media CQ Press Electronic Library Education Full Text JSTOR LexisNexis Academic OmniFile Full Text Mega Opposing Viewpoints Project MUSE PsycINFO Libraries Instruction Center Room Use Policies University Libraries faculty provide library instruction to classes and groups in collaboration with faculty in other academic departments to promote information literacy throughout the university curriculum. The University Libraries encourages teaching faculty to consider incorporating an information literacy component into their courses. Faculty planning library instruction should consider the following guidelines: Requests for library instruction should be made as early as possible and must be made at least a week in advance to ensure librarian and room availability and to give the librarian ample time to prepare for the class. The instructor should be present at the time of instruction. When possible, a specific assignment should be given that asks students to demonstrate the skills obtained in the library instruction class. Library instruction is scheduled on a first-come, first-served basis. Library instruction may be requested for remote sites and for mornings, evenings, and weekends. No library instruction will be scheduled for Ned R. McWherter Library at times when the Library is closed. All library instruction is scheduled through Instructional Services . Room Use The primary use of the Instruction Center is for library instruction. Faculty and staff of The University of Memphis may schedule use of either of the rooms providing that no library instruction is scheduled for that time. Use of a room is restricted to those who comply with the following guidelines: The rooms are for short-term use only; semester-long courses will not be scheduled. Regularly-scheduled meetings will not be pre-scheduled in the Instruction Center. Requests to use the rooms should be made one week prior to the time of use. No requests for non-library-instruction use will be scheduled more than one week in advance. The Instruction Center may be limited to library-instruction-related use during September, October, January and February, as these are the busiest months for library instruction. A University of Memphis employee must be listed as the responsible party and must be present in the room at all times. Students may not schedule the rooms and are not allowed to use the rooms without a faculty or staff member present. Room 225 and 226 will be locked at all times. The responsible party should ask Research and Information Services (RIS) Desk staff to unlock the door at the appropriate time. All responsible parties must arrange for training on the equipment in the Instruction Center prior to use. No software should be loaded onto the computers. If software is needed for the training, please inform Instructional Services at the time of scheduling so the University Libraries’ Systems Department may oversee the installation and removal. No laptops or other equipment may be connected to the computers in the Instruction Center without prior arrangement with Instructional Services . No food or drink is allowed in the Instruction Center. All instructor station equipment should be turned off and the room returned to its original order before leaving. All scheduling is done through Instructional Services . Please contact Barbara Thomas at brthomas@memphis.edu to request use of ML 225 or ML 226 for non-library-instruction purposes. Library Instruction Schedule a Tour Instruction Request Contact Us My Library Account Review your library account for due dates and more. Interlibrary Loan Request books, articles, and other research materials from other libraries. Reserve space Group study and presentation spaces available in the library. Ask-a-Librarian Got a question? Got a problem? Ask Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .