#http://bf.memphis.edu/forms/acct/acct13.php
Financial Status Questionnaire Form Financial Status Questionnaire General Online Help Submit completed form to the U of M Research Support Services (RSS), Administration Bldg., Room 315 General Information Yes No 1. Does your organization have its financial statements reviewed by an independent public accounting firm? If so, please enclose a copy of the most recent review of your organization. Yes No 2. Are duties separated so that no one individual has complete authority over an entire financial transaction? Yes No 3. Does your organization have controls to prevent expenditure of funds in excess of approved, budgeted amounts? Yes No 4. Other than financial statements, has any aspect of your organization's activities been audited within the last two years by a governmental agency or independent public accountant? Explain. (Please provide a copy of any recent external audit.) Cash Management Yes No 1. Are all disbursements properly documented with evidence of receipt of goods or performance of services? Yes No 2. Are all bank accounts reconciled monthly? Payroll Yes No 1. Are payroll charges checked against program budgets? Yes No 2. What system does your organization use to control paid time, especially time charged to sponsored agreements? Indirect Costs Yes No 1. Does the organization have a Facilities &amp; Administrative (F&amp;A) cost allocation plan or a negotiated F&amp;A cost rate? Explain. (Please provide a copy of any negotiated F&amp;A cost rate agreement.) Yes No 2. Does the organization have procedures which provide assurance that consistent treatment is applied in the distribution of charges to all grants? Cost Sharing How does the organization determine that it has met cost sharing goals? Compliance Yes No 1. Does your organization have a formal policy of nondiscrimination and a formal system for complying with Federal civil rights requirements? Yes No 2. Does your organization have a cash forecasting process which will minimize the time elapsed between the drawing down of funds and the disbursement of those funds? 3. Please provide a list of recent grants or contracts your organization has received from The University of Memphis. Procurement Yes No 1. Are there procedures to ensure procurement at competitive prices? 2. Is there an effective system of authorization and approval of: Yes No a) capital equipment expenditures? Yes No b) travel expenditures? Property Management Yes No 1. Are detailed records of individual capital assets kept and periodically balanced with the general ledger accounts? Yes No 2. Are there effective procedures for authorizing and accounting for the disposal of property and equipment? Yes No 3. Are detailed property records periodically checked by physical inventory? Briefly describe the organizations policies concerning capitalization and depreciation. Cost Transfers How does the organization ensure that all cost transfers are legitimate and appropriate? Name of person completing questionnaire: Title: Signature Date The University of Memphis, one of the Tennessee Board of Regents institutions, is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action University.