#http://www.memphis.edu/its/security/policies-guidelines.php
Policies and Guidelines - ITS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Information Technology Services About umTech Security Governance Resources Security Report a Security Incident Alerts and Warnings Phishing Personal Information Security FTC Phone Call Scams Site FBI Internet Fraud Site Policies and Guidelines Security Best Practices Security Awareness Web Security Guidelines Home ITS Security Policies and Guidelines Policies and Guidelines Official University policies are located on the Policies and Procedures website. All students, faculty, and staff are expected to comply with the policies below that are designed to protect University IT resources. All students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to review and comply with the guidelines below to prevent security incidents that could lead to a violation of University policies. policies UM1535 - Acceptable Use of Information Technology Resources UM1691 - Campus Data Security Policy Confirm your understanding of the Campus Data Security Policy by completing this tutorial . UM1337 - Data Access UM1566 -Security and Protection of Electronic Information Resources Guidelines Web servers Web servers hosted on the University of Memphis network must adhere to established system security guidelines and be maintained using system administration best practices including keeping operating systems (OS) and server software patched, and removing or disabling unnecessary services, applications, and ports. Only required web server modules and/or extensions should be enabled. Directory listing should be turned off so that search engines and web browsers can't list and identify all of the files stored in the document root of the web server. Web server logs must be maintained in a directory that is not web-accessible. Log files should be reviewed regularly for signs of out-of-the-ordinary behavior. Web site security Web pages that display or collect sensitive or confidential information must be hosted on a secure server supporting an encrypted web protocol (https) with a digital certificate issued by a trusted certificate authority. The University of Memphis ITS Web Services group (webservices@memphis.edu) manages an account with a trusted root certification authority and will work with clients from across campus who need to obtain an SSL certificate for official department or unit web servers in the memphis.edu domain. Scripts executed on Web servers are particularly prone to security breaches, especially if they don't validate user-supplied data before accessing files or operating-system services. Script code should be reviewed and scanned for known security risks. Peer-to-Peer file sharing Peer-to-Peer (P2P) file sharing allows individuals to share files with other users. Additional information about P2P file sharing can be found in a Wikipedia article located here . There are many potential legal issues surrounding inappropriate use of P2P applications and users of these programs are encouraged to review and abide by applicable copyright laws that can be reviewed here . Violation of copyright laws or other inappropriate use of P2P file sharing may result in a violation of policy UM1535 - Acceptable Use of Information Technology Resources. Sharing of some types of music, videos, movies, and documents are examples that may constitute violations of University policy. Equipment Disposal In compliance with University policy UM1691 - Campus Data Security Policy, data should be securely erased from equipment prior to disposal. Deleting files from your computer or laptop does not permanently remove the data. The hard drive must be overwritten (sometimes called "wiping" the drive) before disposal to ensure that deleted files cannot be recovered. An example of a free program used to overwrite a computer or laptop hard drive is Darik's Boot and Nuke (DBAN) . Data Encryption ITS has developed standards for encryption to ensure confidential data is protected from disclosure. In compliance with University policy UM1691 - Campus Data Security Policy, employees, in cooperation with their Local Support Provider (LSP), are responsible for protecting restricted University data to which they have access. ITS has the following recommendations for encryption software: Windows 7 Enterprise: Microsoft Bitlocker (part of Windows 7 Enterprise) Mac OS X: Apple File Vault Family Educational and Privacy Rights Act The University adheres to the requirements of the Family Educational and Privacy Rights Act (FERPA). Additional information regarding FERPA is located on the Registrar's website . Security Report a Security Incident Alerts and Warnings Phishing Personal Information Security FTC Phone Call Scams Site FBI Internet Fraud Site Policies and Guidelines Security Best Practices Security Awareness Web Security Guidelines Security Information Learn more about IT security policies and guidelines. Need Help with Technology? Request technical support via UMhelpdesk. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .