#http://www.memphis.edu/philosophy/graduate/admissions.php
Graduate Degree in Philosophy Admissions - Philosophy - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Philosophy BA Graduate People Research News &amp; Events Resources SJP Contact Graduate Program Resources About M.A. Program Requirements Ph.D. Program Requirements Current Graduate Students Graduate Courses Erasmus Mundus Program Financial aid/awards Bornblum Travel Award Study Abroad Placement How to Apply Other Resources Home Philosophy Graduate Graduate Degree in Philosophy Admissions Admission to the Graduate Programs Introduction This page provides information about admission to the MA and PhD programs in philosophy at the University of Memphis. This page is intended as a helpful supplement to the university's Graduate Bulletin (catalog), which takes precedence in any case of conflict. Students should be familiar with the policies and regulations set forth in that document. Admission Requirements Prospective students are admitted in the fall semester of each academic year. Admission is very competitive. The following prerequisites must be met to be considered for admission to either the PhD program or the MA program. (1) A bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university. (2) A minimum of a 2.5 GPA (4.0 scale). (3) Graduate Record Examination (GRE) taken within the last five years. (4) At least 18 semester hours in undergraduate philosophy courses including the following courses or their equivalent: introduction to philosophy, ethics, elementary logic, intermediate logic, history of ancient philosophy, and history of modern philosophy. A Note on GRE Scores Students applying to the Department of Philosophy graduate programs must take the GRE and submit their scores with their application. (The University of Memphis GRE code is 1459.) There is no minimum score requirement. GRE scores are used as just one part of the overall assessment of a candidate's likely prospects for graduate study. Factors other than the GRE scores are particularly important for the Department's admission decisions. The writing sample, letters of recommendation, the student's GPA generally and specifically in philosophy courses, and the statement of purpose are weighted more heavily than the GRE scores since we have found that these other components of an application are more reliable indicators of a student's readiness for graduate study in philosophy. A Note on Coursework Students lacking any of the required undergraduate courses may be admitted to the program on the condition that the course is taken without graduate credit at the earliest opportunity. How to Apply To be considered for admission to the MA or PhD program, you must submit two applications: one to the Department of Philosophy, the other to the University of Memphis Graduate School. Both applications should be submitted by January 5. Failure to submit both applications by the deadline may result in no consideration. 1. Department Application With the exception of recommendation letters, the Department application cannot be submitted electronically. The following paper materials should be submitted directly to the Philosophy Department: (1) Completed department application (2) A writing sample (10-20 pages) (3) Transcript (transcript provided to the Philosophy Department may be an "unofficial" copy) (4) A statement of purpose (1-2 pages) These materials should be sent by post to the following address: Director of Graduate Admissions Department of Philosophy University of Memphis 327 Clement Hall Memphis, TN 38152 (5) Three confidential letters of recommendation (there is no accompanying form for recommendation letter writers to submit) should be sent directly to the department by the letter writers. The department will accept electronic submission of letters of recommendation. They can be sent as an attachment (on letterhead and original signature is expected) to Cathy Wilhelm . 2. University Application The following materials must be submitted directly to Graduate School (not to the Philosophy Department): (1) Application to Graduate School (2) Transcripts (official transcripts must be mailed directly from the issuing institution) (3) GRE test scores (test scores must be sent directly to Graduate Admissions by the testing agency) The issuing institutions or testing agencies should mail official transcripts and GRE scores to the following address: Office of Graduate Admissions 101 Wilder Tower University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Application Deadline The deadline for receipt of all application materials is January 5. Admission Questions For further information regarding admission to one of our graduate programs, please contact the Director of Graduate Admissions, Prof. Mary Beth Mader . Graduate Program Resources About M.A. Program Requirements Ph.D. Program Requirements Current Graduate Students Graduate Courses Erasmus Mundus Program Financial aid/awards Bornblum Travel Award Study Abroad Placement How to Apply Other Resources Apply to the Graduate Program Want to pursue a MA or PhD in Philosophy? Find out how to apply. Online B.A. Want to pursue your college degree and manage your busy lifestyle? Experience online classes at the UofM. Pre-law Advising Are you interested in a career in the legal profession? Consider a degree in Philosophy! Support the Department Find out how you can support the Department of Philosophy. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/28/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .