#http://www.memphis.edu/onlinemba/admissions/
How To Apply - OMBA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Online Professional MBA Welcome Academics Admissions Tuition &amp; Fees Faculty FCBE Admissions Academics Curriculum Current Class Schedule Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Class Profile Employment Profile Tuition &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fees Financial Aid Faculty Contact Us Home OMBA Admissions How To Apply Step 1: Graduate School Application Use the electronic admission applications to apply to the Graduate School, file for readmission or to change your current degree program or student level. (Application fees for initial admission are $35 application fee for domestic students and $60 for international students) Step 2: Pre-Registration Application Use the electronic Pre-Registration application for the Online MBA Program in the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics. Step 3: GMAT or GRE Admission Test Schedule an appointment to take the GMAT or GRE exam, and have the results sent to Graduate Admissions. Locally, you may schedule your GMAT exam at... The Pearson Professional Testing Center 6060 Poplar Avenue Suite LL01 Memphis, TN 38119 Phone: 901-761-3372 Or online at Locally, you may schedule your GRE exam at... The University of Memphis Prometric Center 111C Brister Hall Phone: 901-678-1457 or Prometric Testing Center 8176 Old Dexter Road Suite 101 Memphis, TN 38016 Phone: 901-756-1425 Toll Free: 1 -800-867-1100 Or online at Have your GMAT or GRE scores sent to... Graduate Admissions The University of Memphis 101 Wilder Tower Memphis, TN 38152-3520 Step 4: Transcripts Request that your official transcripts from all other colleges and/or universities you have attended be sent to... Graduate Admissions The University of Memphis 101 Wilder Tower Memphis, TN 38152-3520 Step 5: Supplemental Materials Submit the following supplemental materials to the Graduate Programs Office in the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics: Current Resume Statement of Personal Interest (no more than 2 pages, single spaced) Essay (See questions below; no more than 1,000 words) Two Letters of Recommendation Essay Questions Choose 1 from the following list: Describe a situation where leadership and teamwork were critical to the outcome of a project in which you were directly involved. What did you learn from the experience and how have you applied this knowledge to other situations in your life? Describe a personal achievement that has had a significant impact on your life. Give specific details. What did you learn from this experience? How did it help shape your understanding of yourself and the world around you? Describe how your experiences, both professional and personal, have motivated you to pursue an MBA at the University of Memphis this year. How does your decision to pursue an MBA at the University of Memphis relate to your career goals for the future? The supplemental materials can be emailed to Marja Martin, mnmartin@memphis.edu or mailed directly to: Graduate Programs Office 101 Fogelman College Administration Building University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Admissions Academics Curriculum Current Class Schedule Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Class Profile Employment Profile Tuition &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fees Financial Aid Faculty Contact Us How To Apply What's your first step? Find out here! Class Profile Curious to know who is attending our program? The answers are here! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .