#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/programs/research-grants.php
Research Grants - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections Programs Overview Conferences Lecture Series Research Grants National Book Award Hooks African American Male Initiative (HAAMI) Hooks Graduate Assistants Hooks Scholars Hooks Fellows Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks Programs Research Grants Research Grants The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change is committed to supporting research by faculty at the University of Memphis that addresses local issues yet has national relevance. To this end, the Institute began making faculty research awards in 2010 to tenured and tenure-track faculty members who are engaged in research related to the Institute's mission. We welcome applications from scholars in any field whose research relates to our mission of "teaching, studying and promoting Civil Rights and Social Change." Read about our past funded research below, and visit our website regularly for updates on requests for proposals. Memphis Leaders and the Hooks Legacy. In 2012, the Hooks Institute awarded a $5,000 research grant to Wanda Rushing, PhD., Dunavant Professor of Sociology at the University of Memphis. Her study of Memphis Leaders and the Hooks Legacy involves the use of selected Benjamin L. Hooks archival documents, and interviews with current community leaders, to study pathways of leadership in the Post-Civil Rights era. The Hooks documents, including correspondence, public speeches and sermons, identify Hooks' vision of social change, his assessment of leadership characteristics, and his expectations for continuing the legacy of the civil rights movement. The interviews with community leaders in education, non-profits, business, and local government ask them about experiences that influenced their pathways to leadership, as well as their thoughts about the legacy of the civil rights movement. To date, one peer-reviewed article using these data has received a revise and resubmit. Additional articles are in progress, and a book proposal will be submitted. Mapping the History of West Tennessee. In 2009, the Hooks Institute awarded a $5,000 research grant to Esra Ozdenerol, PhD, a faculty member in the Department of Earth Sciences at the University of Memphis. Dr. Ozdenerol worked with the Institute to create a Geographic Information Systems (GIS)-mapping website that will disseminate information about pivotal civil rights events and their locations in west Tennessee. The GIS-mapping website will have electronic visualizations such as animated maps that allow exploration of recreated landscapes, hyperlinked stories, photographs, and video interviews of those involved in the Civil Rights Movement. Studying the Role of African American Faith-Based Communities in HIV Research. In February 2011, the Hooks Institute awarded Latrice Pichon, PhD, a faculty member in the School of Public Health at the University of Memphis, a $5,000 research grant to study African American faith-based organizations' institutional readiness to engage in community-based HIV prevention research in the City of Memphis and Shelby County. The study sought to assess faith leaders'/clergy attitudes, beliefs, and concerns about implementing HIV programs within faith-based organizations; to understand how policy, governance structure, congregational culture, theological views on sexuality, and official teaching may influence facilitation of HIV programs; and to identify salient elements that should be considered while screening and selecting faith-based organizations to participate in future HIV programs. Race and Environmental Disparities. In 2011, the Hooks Institute awarded Chunrong Jia, PhD, a faculty member in the School of Public Health at the University of Memphis, a $5,000 research grant to study environmental disparities in Memphis African American communities.Air toxins represent a wide range of pollutants that may cause cancer, birth defects, or other serious health problems. The overall objective of this study was to characterize the socioeconomic and racial disparities in air toxic exposure and the associated lifetime cancer risk in Memphis. Make A Splash Mid-South: An Initiative to Increase Swim Rates Among African American Youth. In April 2009, the Hooks Institute joined two faculty members, Carol and Richard Irwin, PhDs, from the School of Health Studies at the University of Memphis, to fund research evaluating a minority youth swimming program created by Make a Splash Mid-South, a Memphis non-profit organization. This learn-to swim program sought to increase swimming proficiency among minority children in communities with low participation rates. Drowning is a leading cause of death for children ages 5 to 14 in the United States, and drowning deaths are notably higher among minority populations. The research, funded with a $4,300 grant from the Institute, has demonstrated thus far that the learn-to-swim program is an effective approach to addressing this health disparity among minority populations. The researchers published a monograph on the Institute's website to share Make A Splash Mid-South programming and research results with communities throughout the nation. The goal was to guide communities on how to replicate the organization's success in Memphis, which may diminish the disproportionate number of minority youth drowning incidents across the United States. Click on the picture below to read the monograph and click here for the update . Programs Overview Conferences Lecture Series Research Grants National Book Award Hooks African American Male Initiative (HAAMI) Hooks Graduate Assistants Hooks Scholars Hooks Fellows Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .