#http://www.memphis.edu/athletics/tickets.php
Student Tickets - Athletics - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Tiger Athletics Students Calendar Tickets Facilities Tiger Network Scholarship Fund M Club Home Athletics Student Tickets Student Ticket Policy for Men's Basketball/Football Games Below is important information about student tickets for home men's basketball games at FedEx Forum and home football games at Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium. Full-Time Students Full-time students (six hours or more for this purpose) with a valid University of Memphis ID will be admitted free of charge at each game. You must have your ID with you, or you will not be admitted. Part-Time Students Part-time students (five hours or less for this purpose) may purchase a $7 ticket for themselves at the Athletic Ticket Office located in the Penny Hardaway Hall of Fame at the Athletic Office Building (570 Normal Street) during regular office hours, Monday-Friday 8:00-4:30, while supplies last. Part-time student tickets will not be sold at FedExForum or at Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium. Student Guest Passes Students may purchase one guest ticket for men's basketball and up to two for football for each game (limit one vs. Ole Miss) at the Athletic Ticket Office for $10 ($25 for the Ole Miss football game), while supplies last. Only a limited number of guest tickets will be available for each game and will be on sale the week of the game. Student Entrance Students and persons holding student guest tickets must enter through the student gate. FedExForum – Student entrance with ID is located on the left side of the main entrance into FedExForum off of Third Street. Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium – Student entrance with ID is located at Gate 6 (Guests of Students will need a ticket to enter and can use East side of Gate 6). Gate 6 is located near South Hollywood Street entrance. Please note : There will be an assigned seat system for all games at FedExForum. After IDs are scanned (and guest tickets taken) at FedExForum, each student (and guest) will be given an assigned seat for the game, which will then be scanned gate entrance personnel. Students (and guests) wishing to sit together must enter together. As a general rule, seats will be assigned on a first come - first served basis, starting with the lower level of the student section and, after those seats are filled, moving to the upper level of the student section. The Student Section at Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium will be ticketed as a General Admission (first-come, first-serve) seating area, the designated student section is Section 123 and 124. Parking FedExForum - The Student Government Association has leased a parking lot adjacent to the FedExForum for the exclusive use of UofM students. The lot is free and will be available on a first-come, first-served basis for all home basketball games. Students must present a valid University of Memphis ID to be admitted to the lot. The lot opens three hours prior to each game and, for the safety of the vehicles that park there, the lot will be attended throughout each game. For directions to the lot, click here . Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium – A student tailgating lot has been established adjacent to the Liberty Bowl. A limited number of free parking passes for the student tailgating lot will be distributed from the UC Information Desk. Passes will be given out on a first come- first served basis. You will need your Student ID in order to pick up a parking pass. There is a limit of one pass per student. The student football tailgate section is in the Tan Lot near the Southern Avenue entrance and next to the Coliseum. Take the Blue Line to Football Games There is no reason for students to hassle with parking and traffic on game day when the Tigers play football at Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium. The Blue Line Shuttle runs from the Central Avenue parking lot on the University of Memphis campus two hours prior to game time and runs continuously until kickoff. Shuttles return to the Central Lot at halftime and immediately following the game. Shuttles returning riders to the Central Lot are available up until an hour after the conclusion of each home game. Shuttles are free and open to anyone with a Memphis ID or someone traveling with a person with a valid UofM ID. Until a half hour prior to kickoff, drop off is at Tiger Lane, then moves to Gate 6 (student gate off Hollywood). When headed back to campus, students can catch The Blue Line on Hollywood outside of Gate 6. When are Fall and Spring Only Semester IDs Valid? Fall students' IDs will be valid for entry to games through January 15. For students enrolled for the spring semester, IDs will be valid beginning January 9. Damaged Card If your ID card is damaged, you may receive a free replacement ID card at the Campus Card Office on the 5th floor of Wilder Tower upon presentation of your damaged card. What If Someone Uses Your ID? Please note that if your ID card is used by someone else, your ID will be confiscated and turned over to the Office of Student Conduct. What If the Student Section Fills Up? There are a limited number of seats in the student section at FedExForum and Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium. If all seats in the student section are filled, no more students (or guests) can be admitted, although every effort will be made to find additional seating. Disability Assistance Students who are registered with Disability Resources for Students, who may need assistance with special seating, should contact the Memphis Ticket Office at tigertickets@memphis.edu at least 24 hours prior to each game if they wish to attend. Admission to Additional Athletic Events Students are also admitted free to Women's Basketball and Baseball home games. Home events for Men's Soccer, Women's Soccer, Softball, Volleyball, Men's Tennis, Women's Tennis and Track and Field are free to the public. GoTigersGo.com Your home for Tiger Sports Student Tickets Information on obtaining student and guest tickets to the games Center for Athletic Academic Services Serve student-athletes in a variety of capacities on a daily basis throughout the year. Prospective Student-Athletes Do you have what it takes to be a Tiger? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .