#http://www.memphis.edu/caas/tigers/current.php
Current Tigers - CAAS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Center for Athletic Academic Services About Services Staff Tigers Awards Resources PAWS Tigers Current Tigers Future Tigers Home CAAS Tigers Current Tigers Expectations of Student-Athletes Each student-athlete plays an integral role in the academic pursuit of a degree from the University of Memphis. Student-athletes must take advantage of the services provided through CAAS and the University. Student-athletes are expected to: Attend ALL classes, Communicate with professors on a regular basis (especially during travel seasons), Complete ALL assignments in a timely manner, and Uphold standards of academic integrity by complying with all academic policies. Student-Athlete Manual Utilize the current edition of the Student-Athlete Manual for important information. Student-Athlete's Role in Advising and Registration One of the most important functions of CAAS is to advise student-athletes for course selection and assist in selection of an academic major. Academic advising requires a partnership between the student-athlete and the counselor to ensure the best decisions are made for the benefit of the student-athlete. Student-athletes are required to meet with their Athletic Academic Counselor each semester during the advising period. Student-athletes who have declared an academic major are also required to meet with their major advisor. A list of departmental advisors can be found here . Preparing for Academic Advising Meetings Current Student-Athletes Who Have Declared a Major: Schedule an appointment with your major advisor. Consider courses to take: * Refer to the Undergraduate Catalog for information regarding your major's requirements and the four-year plan. Make a list of courses for your major that you may want to or need to take. * Go to myMemphis . Click on the Student Tab. Utilize Registration Tools to investigate course offerings. * Use Advising Worksheet to make a list of courses, times, and professors for the courses you wish to take. Consider back-up courses for each. Check UMDegree to see what requirements you still need fulfill. Schedule an appointment with your athletic academic counselor via Appointment Plus. *Make a list of questions to ask your counselor and be ready to inform your counselor if your plans for major/minor/career/graduate school have changed. Clear ALL holds before priority registration. Current Student-Athletes Who Have NOT Declared a Major: Schedule an appointment with your athletic academic counselor via Appointment Plus. Consider courses to take: * Refer to the undergraduate catalog for information regarding available majors and their requirements. Review General Education requirements (these can also be located at the front desk in CAAS). Make a list of courses you may want to or need to take in the upcoming semester. * Go to myMemphis . Click on the Student Tab. Utilize Registration Tools to investigate course offerings. * Use Advising Worksheet to make a list of courses, times, and professors for the courses you wish to take. Consider back-up courses for each. Freshmen : you must think about the major you may wish to declare as you complete the above steps. Sophomores : you must declare your major by the end of summer. You will sign an Academic Program Maintenance Form during your advising appointment. 4. Make a list of questions to ask your counselor and be ready to inform your counselor if your plans for major/minor/career/graduate school have changed. 5. Clear ALL holds before priority registration. Drop/Add/Withdrawal Process Student-athletes must be enrolled in a minimum of 12 hours each semester. Therefore, all changes to a student-athlete's course schedule must be coordinated through the Athletic Academic Counselor. To contact your CAAS Athletic Academic Counselor, click here . Tigers Current Tigers Future Tigers Appointment Plus myMemphis Services to Students Go Tigers Go Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .