#http://www.memphis.edu/its/security/best-practices.php
Security Best Practices - ITS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Information Technology Services About umTech Security Governance Resources Security Report a Security Incident Alerts and Warnings Phishing Personal Information Security FTC Phone Call Scams Site FBI Internet Fraud Site Policies and Guidelines Security Best Practices Security Awareness Web Security Guidelines Home ITS Security Security Best Practices Security Best Practices Passwords Maintain a complex password that only you know. Do not share passwords. Sharing your University passwords is a violation of University policy UM1535 - Acceptable Use of Information Technology Resources . Guidelines and additional information can be found on ITS's Password Security website . Anti-Virus Software Viruses can corrupt data and slow down entire computer networks. To protect your computer from infection, install anti-virus software, and update when prompted. SafeConnect, the University's Network Access Control (NAC) system, requires anti-virus software to be installed and up-to-date in order to run on the University's network. SafeConnect recognizes a variety of Anti-Virus software . University owned computers/laptops can get anti-virus software installed at no cost. Contact the umTech Service Desk at 901.678.8888 to request this service by your Local Support Provider (LSP). Spyware and Malware Spyware or malware (malicious software) is software installed on your computer without your knowledge. It may be installed while you are downloading an application, browsing websites, reading emails, opening email attachments, or using a file sharing program online. It is recommended to use an approved SafeConnect Anti-Spyware product as mentioned above. Operating Systems New security concerns develop frequently. The best way to protect your computer's operating system is to install updates to the operating system. Mac and Microsoft updates are FREE to download. Windows: Mac: SafeConnect, the University's Network Access Control (NAC) system, requires a supported operating system in order to run on the University's network. Report a security Incident Individuals should report potential security issues such as lost/stolen devices, potential data breach or exposure, compromised University account credentials, and malicious network activity. Fill out the Security Incident Report Form and provide as much information as possible for appropriate follow-up. REPORT INTERNET/SECURITY ABUSE ITS will never ask you to send personal information such as usernames, passwords or social security numbers via email. Additionally, you may occasionally receive unsolicited emails (spam) or phishing emails specifically designed to trick you into clicking inappropriate links. These types of emails may be forwarded to the University of Memphis Internet/Security Abuse group via email at abuse@memphis.edu . Confidential Data Best Practices Storage Encrypt all confidential data that is stored on a laptop or other portable media. You can encrypt the entire hard drive of your laptop or an entire USB drive to ensure that the data cannot be viewed by anyone else. University owned laptops and portable media devices must be encrypted. Local Support Providers (LSPs) in each department are responsible for assisting faculty and staff with this process. See the ITS Security Policies and Guidelines page for more information. Delete/Erase Deleting files from your computer, portable laptop or electronic storage media does not permanently remove the data. The data must be overwritten before disposal. See the ITS Security Policies and Guidelines page for more information. Data Encryption STANDARDS ITS has developed standards for encryption to ensure confidential data is protected from disclosure. Local Support Providers (LSPs) are responsible for assisting their users in encrypting University owned laptop hard drives and portable devices or media used to store University confidential data. Additional information can be found within the University of Memphis Campus Data Security Policy . ITS has the following recommendations for encryption software: Windows 7 Enterprise : Microsoft Bitlocker (part of Windows 7 Enterprise) or True Crypt . MAC OS X : Apple File Vault Security Report a Security Incident Alerts and Warnings Phishing Personal Information Security FTC Phone Call Scams Site FBI Internet Fraud Site Policies and Guidelines Security Best Practices Security Awareness Web Security Guidelines National Cyber Security Awareness Month Learn more about National Cyber Security Month! Security Information Learn more about IT security policies and guidelines. Need Help with Technology? Request technical support via UMhelpdesk. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/8/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .