#http://www.memphis.edu/mediaroom/releases/archive/mar15/mlk.php
The University of Memphis Presents Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Human Rights Awards - Media Room - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UofM Media Room Publications Resources This Week UofM Magazine News Releases Contact News Releases Latest News Releases October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 News Releases Archive 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Home Media Room News Releases The University of Memphis Presents Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Human Rights Awards The University of Memphis Presents Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Human Rights Awards Dr. Ladrica Menson-Furr 901.678.5455 lmnsnfrr@memphis.edu March 27, 2015 - In honor of the legacy of the slain civil rights leader, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., the University of Memphis will hold the 39th annual MLK Human Rights Award and Scholarships presentation Friday, April 3, at 2 p.m. in the University Center River Room. This year's Human Rights Award will be presented to Dr. J. Helen Perkins in recognition of her work at the University and throughout the community to expand civil, social and economic rights and her advocacy for nonviolent methods of social change. Perkins is an associate professor of reading and urban literacy in the U of M's College of Education, Health and Human Services.Her scholarly work focuses on children of poverty and their literacy acquisition and enhancement, and best practices. Perkins has more than 37 years in education, serving as a reading specialist, classroom teacher, literacy coach, former editor of The Reading Teacher, and was invited to serve on the Tennessee Reading Association Advocacy Committee. She currently serves as president of the Association of Literacy Educators and Researchers. Perkins has published several articles, chapters, a book offering literacy strategies for teachers and a children's book. Her community work includes conducting workshops for parents, teen fathers, volunteers, tutors and professional development for educators of underrepresented and under-performing students in both urban and rural environments. She is the current board chair of Porter-Leath. During her tenure as board chair, Porter-Leath has received more than $12 million in grants and contracts to meet the needs of children and their families. She has received several awards and honors for her work including the Urban Impact Award from the Council of Great City Schools and membership in the U of M's "PI Millionaire's Club." This year's scholarship recipients are Anna McCown and Johnathan Moffett. McCown is a freshman pre-nursing student and Moffett is a senior majoring in economics. The students were chosen from more than 35 applicants based upon their academic performance, university and community service, and their essay interpreting Dr. King's quote, "We must use time creatively, in the knowledge that the time is always ripe to do right." In addition to the award presentation, the University will host a lecture and discussion of the future of the civil rights movement launched by King. Dr. Brittney Cooper, assistant professor of women's and gender studies and Africana studies at Rutgers University, will discuss "The Next Generation of Civil Rights Leaders" on Thursday, April 2, at 6 p.m. in the University Center Theatre. A reception will precede her remarks at 5:30 p.m. in the theatre lobby. Cooper is a 2009 alumna of the Graduate Institute of Liberal Arts at Emory University with a PhD in American studies. Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Howard University, with bachelor's degrees in English and political science. A scholar of black women's intellectual history, black feminist thought, and race and gender in popular culture, Cooper writes extensively about both historic and contemporary iterations of black feminist theorizing. For more information on the MLK Award presentations and Dr. Cooper's address, contact Dr. Ladrica Menson-Furr at 678-5455 or lmnsnfrr@memphis.edu . News Releases Latest News Releases October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 News Releases Archive 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Music Performance Calendar Find out where the music is Art Museum Learn about the latest exhibits Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/2/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .