#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/programs/book-award.php
National Book Award - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections Programs Overview Conferences Lecture Series Research Grants National Book Award Hooks African American Male Initiative (HAAMI) Hooks Graduate Assistants Hooks Scholars Hooks Fellows Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks Programs National Book Award National Book Award The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change Solicitation for 2015 Nominations for Its National Book Award for Outstanding Work on the American Civil Rights Movement and Its Legacy The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change at the University of Memphis (Memphis, TN) is soliciting nominations for its annual National Book Award. In 1996, University of Memphis officials received approval from the Tennessee Board of Regents to create the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change. The Institute is dedicated to Teaching, Studying, and Promoting Civil Rights and Social Change. Hooks Institute archives include Dr. Hooks's personal papers, which are housed in the Mississippi Valley Collection in the University's McWherter Library. Deadline: December 31, 2015 A panel of judges representing various disciplines and academic institutions in Memphis awards the annual prize for the book that best furthers understanding of the American Civil Rights Movement and its legacy. An award of $1,000 will be made to the author(s). The recipient(s) of the award will receive an invitation to deliver an address in the Hooks Institute Lecture Series during the 2016-2017 academic year at the University of Memphis. Eligibility: Books published in calendar year 2015 are eligible for the award. Only originally published non-fictional material will be considered. Submissions: Please provide full contact information for the author(s) and nominator(s), to include an email address, mailing address, and telephone number, and submit one copy of the nominated book (postmarked by December 31, 2015) to The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change, Attn: Benjamin L. Hooks Book Award Nomination, 107 Scates Hall, The University of Memphis, Memphis, Tennessee, 38152-3530. Note: the Hooks Institute reserves the right to exclude from consideration for the Award any nominated book where the submitter fails to provide sufficient contact information. Finalists will be asked to submit additional copies to a panel of judges representing various disciplines and academic institutions in Memphis. For questions or comments: Please contact Rorie Trammel, Assistant Director of the Hooks Institute, at 901-678-3974 or via email at rtrammel@memphis.edu . BENJAMIN L. HOOKS NATIONAL BOOK AWARD RECIPIENTS The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change has selected Stokely: A Life by Peniel E. Joseph as the winner of its National Book Award for 2014. The award recognizes publications that best advance an understanding of the American civil rights movement and its legacy. Dr. Joseph will deliver a talk about his book on February 11, 2016 (time and place will be announced at a later date). 2013 How it Feels to be Free: Black Women Entertainers and the Civil Rights Movement by Ruth Feldstein (Oxford University Press 2013) Press Release 2013 On the Corner: African American Intellectuals and the Urban Crisis by Daniel Matlin (Harvard University Press 2013) Press Release 2012 The Black Revolution on Campus by Martha Biondi (University of California Press 2012) Press Release 2011 Malcolm X: A Life of Reinvention by Manning Marable (Viking 2011) Press Release 2010 Hands on the Freedom Plow: Personal Accounts by Women in SNCC by Faith S. Holsaert, Martha Prescod, Norman Noonan, Judy Richardson, Betty Garman Robinson, Jean Smith Young, and Dorothy M. Zellner (University of Illinois Press 2010) Press Release Programs Overview Conferences Lecture Series Research Grants National Book Award Hooks African American Male Initiative (HAAMI) Hooks Graduate Assistants Hooks Scholars Hooks Fellows Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .