#http://www.memphis.edu/law/about/directions.php
Directions - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library About Administration &amp; Staff History Virtual Tour ABA Disclosures Diversity Diversity Home TIP Student Diversity Committee Scholarships Facilities Facilities Overview Virtual Tour Floor Plans Photo Gallery News &amp; Events Law School News Faculty News On Legal Grounds Blog ML-Memphis Law Magazine Events Calendar Communications Office Directions Contact Media Resource General Contact Info Faculty &amp; Staff Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Home School of Law About Directions DIRECTIONS TO MEMPHIS LAW The University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law 1 North Front Street Memphis, TN 38103-2189 (901) 678-2421 Memphis Law is located in the heart of the downtown legal and business community. We can be easily accessed via several major interstates and are only a short distance from the Memphis International Airport. From the University of Memphis main campus: Take Central Ave. West, turn right onto S. Hollywood St., go North and take a left on Union Ave., head downtown making a right onto Front St. Memphis Law is on the left at Front St. and Madison Ave. From the East on I-40: Take I-40 West toward Little Rock. Take Exit 1 for Riverside Dr. toward downtown Memphis. Turn left at Jefferson Ave. Take the first right onto Front St. Memphis Law is on the right at 1 North Front Street. From the airport: Head North to Plough Blvd. Take the ramp onto I-240 West. Take Exit 31 to merge onto I-40 West toward Little Rock. Take Exit 1 for Riverside Dr. toward downtown Memphis. Turn left at Jefferson Ave. Take the first right onto Front St. Memphis Law is on the right. From Mississippi (I-55): Follow I-55 north and take the left exit towards St. Louis when I-55 meets I-240. Follow I-55 towards downtown. Continue driving straight at exit 12B (Riverside Drive) when I-55 splits off to cross into Arkansas. Follow Riverside Drive along the Mississippi River until you reach Monroe Ave. Turn right on Monroe Ave. and a left at the intersection of Front St. and Monroe Ave. Memphis Law will be one block up on your left at 1 North Front Street. From St. Louis (I-55): Take I-55 South (approximately 275 miles). Continue on I-55 South/I-40 East towards Memphis. After crossing the DeSoto Bridge you may use exit 1 (Riverside Drive South toward Front St. N). Keep left at fork, follow signs for Front Street. Turn right onto Front Street. Memphis Law will be several blocks up on your right at 1 North Front Street. Parking: There is no onsite parking at Memphis Law. Our students and guests park in nearby garages (See Map Below) or at metered spots. ADA-accessible parking is located on the north end of the building. DOWNLOADABLE MAPS: City of Memphis Map Downtown Map Parking Map About Administration &amp; Staff History Virtual Tour ABA Disclosures Diversity Diversity Home TIP Student Diversity Committee Scholarships Facilities Facilities Overview Virtual Tour Floor Plans Photo Gallery News &amp; Events Law School News Faculty News On Legal Grounds Blog ML-Memphis Law Magazine Events Calendar Communications Office Directions Contact Media Resource General Contact Info Faculty &amp; Staff Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .