#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/herff/computer.php
Computer Engineering - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Computer Engineering Computer Engineering Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering The educational objectives of the Computer Engineering program are consistent with the mission of the University of Memphis. The program is designed to provide students satisfying, robust, and quality education in Computer Engineering, leading to professional employment and/or graduate level education. The program educational objectives are that within a few years, graduates will have secured employment in Electrical or Computer Engineering or related fields; advanced their careers as measured by promotions, salaries, career satisfaction, positions of leadership, awards, recognitions, entrepreneurial activities, development of products or process, patents, and/or publications; continued to learn new knowledge and to acquire new expertise as measured by post-graduate education, continuing education, and/or professional registration; contributed to society and the profession as measured by professional service, community service, and/or public service. In pursuit of these objectives, students enrolled in Computer Engineering are offered a curriculum designed to provide a thorough background and understanding of the theoretical and physical principles of computer hardware and software. The intent of the program is to produce graduates who can apply concepts and techniques of mathematics and physics to a variety of analysis and design applications in Computer Engineering. In addition, graduates are prepared to communicate their ideas succinctly and clearly in both oral and written presentations. Graduates of Computer Engineering will have demonstrated: a. an ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering b. an ability to design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret data c. an ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety, manufacturability, and sustainability d. an ability to function on multidisciplinary teams e. an ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems f. an understanding of professional and ethical responsibility g. an ability to communicate effectively h. the broad education necessary to understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context i. a recognition of the need for, and an ability to engage in life-long learning j. a knowledge of contemporary issues k. an ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering practice. Laboratory facilities are available for a wide variety of instructional and research activities. Significant laboratory activity is required in the curriculum. Career opportunities include positions in development and design, research, sales, management, manufacturing, and information systems. Some of the technical areas of opportunity are related to computer application, information systems and technology, mobile communications and devices, software development, and computer hardware design and development. An undergraduate student, with approval of the department chair, may select electives that satisfy the course entrance requirements for medical school. HONORS PROGRAM: Students are eligible for the honors program in computer engineering if they have and maintain a cumulative GPA of 3.4 with at least junior standing and have received approval of the departmental honors committee. The honors program in Computer Engineering requires a minimum of 8 hours of honors courses in Computer Engineering and must include the completion of an honors thesis (EECE 4999). Those students who complete the program and the regular B.S.CP.E. requirements will be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having their degree conferred "With Honors in Computer Engineering." Moreover, the student's diploma and record at the University of Memphis will reflect this accomplishment. Details concerning this program and honors course offerings are available in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. ADMISSION: Admission to the university will allow a student to be in a pre-computer engineering major. Movement into the major requires completion of the courses listed below with a minimum grade of "C" in each of these courses. MATH 1910, CHEM 1110, PHYS 2110, EECE 1202, COMP 1900 or EECE 1206, and ENGL 1010 Monitoring of a student's progress will be performed by the Herff College of Engineering academic advisor. A student will not be forwarded to the academic department for advising until these courses have be satisfactorily completed. Pre-computer engineering majors may not register for EECE courses at or above the 3000-level. Exceptions to these criteria are at the discretion of the department chair. GRADUATION: The minimum requirements for the degree of Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering are given below. The student must satisfy university and college requirements. The student must obtain a minimum grade of "C" in all EECE courses and in MATH 1910, 1920, 2110, 3120; CHEM 1110/1111; COMP 2150, 2700; PHYS 2110/2111, 2120/2121, or any equivalents to these courses used to satisfy degree requirements. No transfer credit with a grade less than a minimum grade of "C" may be used to satisfy a requirement for the Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering. Waiver of departmental graduation requirements for exceptional circumstances will be granted only upon approval of both the department chair and the Dean of the College of Engineering (or designee). MINORS: Students satisfying the requirements for the Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering may also satisfy requirements for a minor offered by a department in one of the other colleges. Requirements for a minor are specified by the appropriate college and department. Students should submit application for the minor to the appropriate department chair. Candidates for graduation who satisfy requirements for a minor should file the approved application with the intent-to-graduate cards. Accelerated B.S.CP.E./M.S. Program in Computer Engineering This program allows outstanding undergraduates to begin the coursework for the Master of Science in Computer Engineering during their senior year. Students are encouraged to begin planning to enter the Accelerated B.S.CP.E./M.S. program early in their undergraduate career, in consultation with their advisor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. Working with the undergraduate and graduate academic coordinators, undergraduates selected into this program begin a carefully tailored course of study that will allow them to complete their B.S.CP.E. degree while they also begin the coursework toward their M.S. To apply, students must have a minimum 3.25 grade point average, and must submit two reference letters and a copy of their transcript to the Electrical and Computer Engineering department. Each applicant will complete an interview with the graduate academic coordinator in computer engineering. Students must also apply to the Graduate School for the accelerated B.S.CP.E./M.S. program, which allows them to take graduate courses in computer engineering. To continue in the program past the B.S.CP.E, students must apply for full admission into the Graduate School and into the Electrical and Computer Engineering department's M.S. program. Only in ABM programs, up to 9 hours of graduate course work may be applied to both the undergraduate and graduate programs. However, any graduate coursework will not apply to undergraduate GPA. Computer Engineering Major (B.S.CP.E.) A. General Education (36 hours) See Graduation from the University for University General Education Program requirements. Note the following requirements are specified for this program: Communication : ENGL 3603 instead of COMM 2381; Mathematics: MATH 1910 (students who have not had MATH 1730 or its equivalent must take it before enrolling MATH 1910); History: waived for B.S.CP.E. students who have completed one unit of history in high school; Social/Behavioral Sciences: ECON 2010 must be taken in addition to 3 hours from the other specified choices; Natural Science: PHYS 2110/2111, 2120/2121. B. College and Degree Requirements (21 hours) Mathematics (17 hours): MATH 1920, 3120, 3242, 4614, COMP 2700. Natural Science (4 hours): CHEM 1110/1111. C. The Major (64 hours) 1. Major Core (58 hours): Completion of the following: EECE 1202, EECE 1206 or COMP 1900 (4), EECE 2201 (4), 2207, 2222 (4), COMP 2150 (4),4270, EECE 3201 (4), 3203, 3204, 3211 (4), 3270 (4), 4081, 4278, 4279, 4280, 4991. 2. Electives (6 hours): Computer Engineering electives from: EECE 4222, 4277, 4710, 4711, 4712, 4272, 4273, 4275, 4276, 4720, 4730 or 4731. Typical 4-Year Computer Engineering Sequence Freshman Year ENGL 1010 3 ENGL 1020 3 MATH 1910 4 MATH 1920 4 EECE 1202 3 PHYS 2110/2111 4 CHEM 1110/1111 4 EECE 1206 or COMP 1900 4 Semester Totals 14 hrs 15 hrs Sophomore Year EECE 2207 3 Humanities/Fine Arts* 3 PHYS 2120/2121 4 EECE 2201 4 COMP 2150 4 EECE 2222 4 C0MP 2700 4 MATH 3120 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 14 hrs Junior Year EECE 3201 4 EECE 3204 3 EECE 3203 3 MATH 4614 3 EECE 3211 4 EECE 3270 4 ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 EECE 4991 3 MATH 3242 3 ENGL 3603 3 Semester Totals 17 hrs 16 hrs Senior Year EECE 4278 3 EECE 4280 3 CpE elective 3 COMP 4270 3 ECON 2010 3 CpE elective 3 EECE 4081 3 Humanities/Fine Arts* 3 EECE 4279 3 Social/Behavioral Sciences* 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 15 hrs Total Hours: 121 Total Hours Required for Graduation: 121 *Must satisfy University General Education Program Requirement. College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .