#http://www.memphis.edu/rsp/vice_president/idcr_program.php
IDCR Program - RSP - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Division of Research and Sponsored Programs Vice President Compliance Sponsored Programs Research Development Vice President for Research Research Development Research Foundation Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Integrated Microscopy Center High Performance Computing Internal Programs Home RSP Vice President for Research IDCR Program IDCR Program Purpose: The purpose of the IDCR is to support future research activities at the University of Memphis. Indirect Costs (or commonly referred to as FA costs) are generated by direct expenditures on federal, state, and private grants. Current year indirect cost fund reallocation is based upon the actual FA allocation from the prior year. Distribution Percentages are as follows: Principal Investigator (PI) - 10% Department -10% School/College - 5% The distribution of IDCR is formula driven and performed manually after the close of the fiscal year. Deans and Chairs may reallocate funds at their discretion once the IDCR distribution is complete. Subsequent budget changes must be processed by the College or Department. Shared Credit: Faculty/Investigators may share credit with eligible participants. The intention to share credit must be indicated on the Proposal Summary Form (PSF) at the time of proposal submission. The distribution of the department and college/school share follows the faculty member. For example: Dr. X in Psychology is sharing with Dr. Y in Biomedical Engineering at 50% each. Of the total F&amp;A recovered, each faculty member will receive 5%, their respective departments will receive 5%, and their respective colleges/schools will receive 2.5%. All budget revisions to transfer shared credit after the IDCR distribution is complete must be processed by the department. Eligible Participation: Full-time faculty with research related activities. Must not have terminated employment at any time prior to the IDCR distribution. Participant must have an IDCR account set up to receive a distribution. Participant must have recovered the full amount of FA possible on the grant; i.e., no waivers or discounts of FA. Important Information: The purpose of the Faculty IDCR account is for discretionary research support under the direction of the Faculty. Upon the termination of the Faculty, any remaining funds already reallocated to an IDCR account will be transferred to the departmental IDCR account by the Chair or Dean. How to read the IDCR Allocation Report: The report is broken down by College, Department, Faculty and individual projects. The Fund is the original location of the IDCR allocation during the period on the grant. The IDCR % is the amount of distribution that is allocated. If the grant shares credit with another PI, the percentage indicated on the proposal summary form will be listed on the report. The IDCR field is the original allocation of FA during the period on the grant. If the amount is negative, this generally indicates that a correction was made as a result of an entry made to the grant in the previous period. The faculty distribution (faculty amount heading) is listed with the IDCR account, Journal Voucher #, and amount. If the field entry is DNT, this means the amount was not transferred. The department and college distributions list the IDCR account, Journal Voucher #, and amount. The department and college distributions include all amounts, even when the faculty distribution was not made. Vice President for Research Research Development Research Foundation Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Integrated Microscopy Center High Performance Computing Internal Programs Forms Forms and other useful information Staff Staff of Research and Sponsored Programs and Grants Accounting Resources Institutional information and resources for the researcher Research Portal Research Portal Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .