#http://www.memphis.edu/history/contact_us.php
Contact Us - Department of History - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of History Why History? Undergraduate Graduate Online Faculty HERC GAAAH Home Department of History Contact Us Contact information Campus location: 219 Mitchell Hall (3705 Alumni Drive) Mailing Address: Department of History, The University of Memphis, Memphis TN 38152-3450 Telephones: 901.678.2515, 901.678.4097 Fax: 901.678.2720 E-mail: history@memphis.edu Departmental contacts (All offices are in Mitchell Hall) Chair Dr Aram Goudsouzian 221 agoudszn@memphis.edu 901.678.2516 Administrative Associate Ms Karen Bradley 219A klbradly@memphis.edu 901.678.4097 Graduate Coordinator Dr Daniel Unowsky 131 dunowsky@memphis.edu 901.678.3385 Graduate Secretary Ms Karen Jackett 219B3 mkmiller@memphis.edu 901.678.1366 Director of Undergraduate Studies Dr Dennis Laumann 139 dlaumann@memphis.edu 901.678.3392 Undergraduate Advising Dr Chrystal Goudsouzian, Coordinator 143 cdykes@memphis.edu 901.678.5339 Ms Amanda Lee Savage (online students) 145 aksavage@memphis.edu 901.678.1677 Online Coordinator Ms Amanda Lee Savage 145 aksavage@memphis.edu 901.678.1677 Director, Oral History Research Office Dr Charles W. Crawford 213 cwcrwfrd@memphis.edu 901.678.2524 Webmaster Amanda Lee Savage 145 aksavage@memphis.edu 901.678.1677 How to find us The departmental office is in 219 Mitchell Hall, 3705 Alumni Drive. Mitchell Hall is just to the south of the Administration Building and across the Alumni Mall from the University Center, grid E/F-11 on the online campus map . Mitchell Hall, home of the Department of History If you are not familiar with the campus, a Google Earth image will show the location of Mitchell Hall at the tip of the green arrow, with enough of the surrounding area to place it in a recognizable context. To get a closer and more helpful view you should adjust the zoom control one step at a time to give whatever degree of detail you desire. As with all Google Earth images, you may change the view to hide or show labels such as street or building names, change to a map instead of an aerial photograph, print the image, or e-mail a link to the map to yourself or others. As an alternative, you may get an aerial photograph from Google Earth that shows Mitchell Hall and its surrounding area already at a fairly detailed zoom level. Mitchell Hall will be shown at the tip of the green arrow, as before. You may change this view in the same ways as described above. If you are using GPS to locate Mitchell Hall, the coordinates are 35.117848, -89.938654 (35° 7' 4.2528" N, 89° 56' 19.1544" W) The closest visitor parking is in the parking garage and metered spaces at 505 Zach Curlin, grid H/I/J-11 on the online campus map . If you are not familiar with the campus, please consult the university’s Web pages for directions for reaching the campus information about visitor parking a map of parking areas (pdf) You may wish to begin your campus visit at the Visitor Information Center at 3641 Central Avenue (901.678.2040), where short-term parking is available. The center can give you detailed map directions and information about the university and its programs. To help you find your way around campus, the university’s online campus map will give you a photograph of any building on which you click. History Happenings The department reports, as they occur, significant happenings that involve our faculty, students, staff, and alumni. Newsletter The department newsletter is filled with interesting articles and information about our award-winning faculty and students. Event Calendar Plan to attend events of historical interest. Contact Us Contact the Department of History at The University of Memphis. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .