#http://www.memphis.edu/internationalmba/admissions/apply.php
How To Apply - IMBA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - International MBA Welcome Admissions Students Media News FCBE Admissions Welcome Admissions How To Apply Tuition and Fees Students Assistantships Morgan Morton Student Travel Enrichment Fund Scholarships Study Abroad and Internships Learning Outcomes Media News Contact Us Home IMBA Admissions How To Apply How To Apply The University of Memphis' Application for Graduate Admission : Each applicant must complete and submit an Application for Graduate Admission electronically. You must be fully admitted as a graduate student in the University of Memphis system before you can be considered for the IMBA program. Use our electronic admission application to apply to Graduate School, file for readmission or to change your current degree program or student level. Application fees for initial admission are $35 application fee for domestic students and $60 for international students. IMBA Applicant Profile : In addition to applying for admission to the University of Memphis electronically, applicants must complete the IMBA Applicant Profile form. Applicants must complete each section fully. In the section entitled "Language Skills," applicants are asked to select a "business track" based in part upon their foreign language expertise. Descriptions of the business tracks are provided in the IMBA brochure and on the website. Upon completion, the IMBA Application form should be submitted with the other required materials. Note: There is no additional fee to submit the IMBA Applicant Profile. Resume : A current one-page resume should be included with your application materials. Personal Statement : Each applicant must submit a "Personal Statement" as described on the "IMBA Application" form. The personal statement should include the applicant's goals and objectives and must not exceed 800 words. The statement must be completed in English. Official Transcripts : Applicants must obtain an official transcript from all colleges and universities previously attended. Applicants who are completing a program should request transcripts showing course work to date. An official transcript showing the conferral of the degree will be required before enrollment. Copies of all transcripts should be sent directly to the IMBA Office who will in turn forward them to the Graduate Admissions Office. (NOTE: International students, see below for detailed instructions on Evaluation of Credentials .) Letters of Recommendation/Reference : Each applicant must submit three (3) letters of reference. Letters should be from former instructors, professors, or other professionals who can provide relevant information on the applicant's intellectual ability, academic performance, work performance, and the applicant's potential for success in the IMBA program. Letters from personal or family friends or social acquaintances which provide only minimal information on the applicant's abilities are not considered helpful. In lieu of a letter, applicants may request references to complete a Recommendation for International MBA Program form which are provided in the application packet. Send letters and forms directly to the IMBA Office. Test Scores : All applicants are required to take either the Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT) or the Graduate Record Examinations (GRE). Admission to the IMBA Program is competitive. Multiple criteria are considered and include official GMAT and/or GRE scores, cumulative grade point averages, etc. Registration and information is available on the official GMAT website , or by calling: GMAC at 1-609-771- 7330 1-609-771- 7330 FREE . The school code for The University of Memphis is 1459. Official test score results should be sent directly to University of Memphis Graduate Admissions Office. Unofficial score reports are not acceptable, but may be included with your application materials to start the review process. GMAT scores older than five (5) years are not acceptable. To find the test center nearest you, click here . The GRE test is also accepted for admission to the International MBA Program. More information is available at the official GRE website or to find the GRE test center nearest you and available test dates, click here . ADDITIONAL ITEMS REQUIRED FROM INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS Evaluation of Credentials : Applicants whose highest degree is from a foreign university may have to get their credentials evaluated. The university will accept evaluations done by any credentialing agency listed on the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services web site ( ). The course-by course report is required. Please contact the IMBA office so that we can let you know if your degree needs to be evaluated by credentialing agency. Affidavit of Support and Financial Statement . International applicants should be sure to complete the "Application for International Graduate Admission" portion and Affidavit of Support and Financial Statement form and return it by mail to Susan Cohn, Office of International Programs, University of Memphis, 102 Brister Hall, Memphis, TN 38152-3520. This document must be completed and submitted to the International Programs Office before the Form I-20 can be prepared. Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) Scores : All applicants who will be attending the University on a student visa and who are not native speakers of English and are not graduates of The University of Memphis must supply a minimum score of 550 on the paper or 213 on the computer-based Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). Some degree programs require a higher TOEFL score; check department listings for specific requirements. Testing locations and other information can be obtained from or by writing to TOEFL, Educational Testing Service, Princeton, New Jersey, 08540, U.S.A. All test scores must be sent directly from the testing agency to The University of Memphis, institution code R-1459. Health Insurance : In the United States, health care costs are extremely expensive. International Students are often surprised by how amazingly high a doctor’s bill can be, for what seems to be a very simple treatment. Also, some students may be from countries where healthcare costs are paid by the government, or where there are special rates for students. This is not the case in the U.S. – here, F-1 visa students must pay for their own health care costs. To assist with part of those costs, F-1 visa students attending Tennessee Board of Regents (TBR) schools are required to have Tennessee Board of Regents-approved health insurance, before each semester of registration. This is not a University policy; it is a STATEWIDE policy for all schools under the supervision of the Tennessee Board of Regents. This insurance is in place to provide partial coverage for most injuries or illnesses suffered while students are enrolled. It is not meant to be a full-coverage healthcare plan; it is not a complete system of care. It is very useful for reducing the cost of most treatments that the average student may incur during their time in school. For details on the plan, what it covers, what it does not cover, and how to file a claim, please check the Official Insurance Company Website: . For more information on the Tennessee Board of Regents, the supervisory board that requires you to purchase this insurance: or contact the policy-makers directly: phone: (615) 366-4400 (615) 366-4400 FREE fax: (615) 366-4464; Tennessee Board of Regents, 1415 Murfreesboro Road, Suite 350, Nashville, TN 37217. All materials, with the exception of GMAT, GRE and TOEFL test scores should be sent directly to: International MBA Program University of Memphis FCBE Graduate Programs Office 101 Fogelman College Administration Building Memphis, TN 38152-3130 Enrollment in the IMBA Program is limited. Applicants should submit their application materials as early as possible. Application Deadlines: The deadline to apply for this program is August 3, 2015 for domestic students and May 15, 2015 for international students. Seats are limited; apply at the earliest.If you are an international student, all international documents (such as F1 visa and I20 certificate) must be completely processed by June 1st to avoid forfeiture of a seat in the program and, if applicable, the student’s graduate assistantship. Contact: Ms. Anna Myers Advisor, International MBA Program Email University of Memphis Graduate Programs Office 101 Fogelman College Administration Building Memphis, TN 38152 Tel. 901.678.3442 Fax. 901.678.4705 Admissions Welcome Admissions How To Apply Tuition and Fees Students Assistantships Morgan Morton Student Travel Enrichment Fund Scholarships Study Abroad and Internships Learning Outcomes Media News Contact Us How To Apply What's your first step? Find out here! Curriculum Learn about our course offerings! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/19/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .