#http://www.memphis.edu/mediaroom/releases/apr15/patent.htm
U of M Research Foundation Receives Patent for Wound Care Device Contact: Dr. Jasbir - Media Room - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UofM Media Room Publications Resources This Week UofM Magazine News Releases Contact News Releases Latest News Releases October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 News Releases Archive 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Home Media Room News Releases U of M Research Foundation Receives Patent for Wound Care Device Contact: Dr. Jasbir U of M Research Foundation Receives Patent for Wound Care Device Contact: Dr. Jasbir Dhaliwal 901.678-4653 jdhaliwl@memphis.edu April 1, 2015 - The University of Memphis Research Foundation (UMRF) has been granted United States patent No. 8,993,540, "Compositions and Methods for Delivering an Agent to a Wound." It is the 20th patent granted to UMRF. The product covered by this patent was invented in the University of Memphis Herff College Of Engineering's Department of Biomedical Engineering (BME). The inventors are Dr. Warren Haggard and Dr. Joel Bumgardner, both professors of BME, and Dr. Scott Noel of Bionova Medical, who earned his PhD under Haggard's supervision. The patent is exclusively licensed to Bionova Medical, a privately held medical device company in Germantown, Tenn. The company's flagship product, Sentrex BioSponge MPD, covered by this new patent, has received two clearances from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for use as a local wound management device that is also compatible with Negative Pressure Wound Therapy (NPWT). "We are very pleased to receive a patent on this exciting technology that is based on cutting-edge science from our researchers," said University President M. David Rudd. "It validates the real-world impact of the work of our researchers in the Herff College of Engineering, and demonstrates the leading role played by the FedEx Institute in bridging the gap between the lab and the marketplace." Dr. Jasbir Dhaliwal, executive director of the FedEx Institute of Technology and chief innovation officer of the University, said, "The FedEx Institute has been hard at work building up its portfolio of technology patents and intellectual property by supporting basic research and development of proof-of-concepts underlying innovations such as this would care device. We are now ready to work with regional biomedical partners to commercialize these innovations." The Sentrex BioSponge MPD has been used in medical centers around the country to aid in local management of a variety of wound types. Brian Austin, CEO of Bionova Medical, said, "We appreciate the opportunity to provide physicians with a device, utilizing this novel technology from the University of Memphis, that helps them manage complex wounds." The University of Memphis Research Foundation is a 501(c) corporation that supports the research and technology transfer objectives of the U of M and its faculty and students. Bionova, founded in 2011, is committed to providing advanced treatment options to practicing physicians. Utilized across a spectrum of specialties, including trauma, general and plastic surgery, and advanced wound care, Bionova Medical's versatile device offers a simple solution for complex wounds. News Releases Latest News Releases October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 News Releases Archive 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Music Performance Calendar Find out where the music is Art Museum Learn about the latest exhibits Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/2/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .