#http://www.memphis.edu/acc/faqs.php
FAQs - ACC - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Academic Counseling Center Staff Prepare for Advising Pre-Nursing Tips Learning Support ALEKS Home ACC FAQs Frequently Asked Questions Majors I have a major but it says "Academic Focus" on my transcript. What is that? How do I choose a major that is right for me? How do I declare my major? Do I have to declare my major right away? When should I declare a major? Where do I go for more information about my major? What should I do if I want to change my major? Advisors Who is my advisor? When should I see my advisor? How do I make an appointment with my advisor? Can I be advised if I have a hold on my record? General Questions What are my responsibilities? Why do I have to take General Education courses? Which students are seen in the Academic Counseling Center? I tried to register and it says I need an Alternate PIN from my advisor. What does this mean? What if I have a question that wasn't answered here? ALEKS What is the ALEKS exam? Do I have to take the ALEKS? How quickly will I know my ALEKS score? Can I retake the ALEKS if I'm not happy with my placement? How much does the ALEKS cost? Learning support What is Learning Support? How are students placed into prescribed courses? Can anyone enroll in a prescribed course? Can I audit the course? Where can I find the prescribed Reading and English courses in myMemphis? What is a "combo course"? If I realize I am doing poorly in a prescribed course, where should I go for help? What is COMPASS and how do I register for the test? How are COMPASS scores used? I have a major but it says "Academic Focus" on my transcript. What is that? All students that are seen in the ACC belong to an academic focus area based on their intended major. The various academic focus areas are: Arts, Business, Education, Health Professions, Humanities, Social Sciences, STEM, and General Education. Your focus area may change as your intended major changes. Make sure your counselor is aware of your choice of major to ensure that you are taking the appropriate courses. How do I choose a major that is right for me? Stay aware of and use University resources including: Your Academic Counselor Career Counseling Center, 214 Wilder Tower Focus2 , a career and personality assessment Four Year degree plans Choosing a satisfying major involves matching your interests with your aptitude and skills. What are your strengths and weaknesses? What do you most like to do? What is your personality style or major personality characteristics? What subjects do you enjoy and earn good grades? When reflecting on your past, who have you met or observed and then thought that the work they did or described seemed interesting to you? Consider taking the Career Development course, COUN 1661 (3 credit hours). Ask your advisor about introductory classes that may be available to explore areas that interest you. Attend information sessions on campus about career or major interests, i.e., Pre-Law and Allied Health Info Sessions. Participate in the annual “Discover Your Major Day” to meet and talk to leading instructors and advisors from various academic departments. Remember that choosing a major will not guarantee a life long career. The average person changes careers several times in a lifetime. A college degree can open doors. How do I declare my major? See your advisor. Students will remain assigned to the ACC as long as they are unsure of their major, are taking any pre-major coursework, or have a GPA lower than a 2.0. If they no longer meet any of the previous criteria, then they, working with their advisor, formally declare a major. At that time, the student will be directed to the advising location of the declared major. Do I have to declare my major right away? It is normal for most beginning college students to be unsure about their major. In fact, it is common for students to remain undeclared through the first academic year. ACC advisors encourage students to keep an open mind when choosing a major and will often refer them to Career Counseling or to the Focus2 resource for interest tests. Waiting to declare a major is not a problem since UofM curriculum requires students to take certain basic courses ( General Education ) regardless of one’s major. Students’ experiences in and out of the classroom during the first year will help them decide a major. When should I declare a major? To ensure graduating with the minimum hours required, students are expected to choose a major by the end of their sophomore year. Where do I go for more information about my major? There are several sources of information for your major including: The Undergraduate Catalog includes course descriptions, 4-year Plans, and other useful pieces of information UMDegree Departmental websites Faculty Members Advisors What should I do if I want to change my major? As an ACC student, you should contact your advisor. He or she will have the appropriate paperwork and you can also discuss how your classes may change according to your new major. Who is my advisor? If you are advised in the ACC and are unsure of who your advisor is, check our " ACC Staff " link to see if you recognize your advisor. If not, you can call our office (901.678.2062) and they will give you the name of your advisor. If you are advised outside of the ACC, you can look up your advisor in the directory . When should I see my advisor? Students must see their advisor each semester before they register. Advising for the spring semester typically starts in October, so you should contact your advisor in late September or early October. Advising for the fall semester starts in March so you should contact your advisor in late February or early March to make an appointment. Don't be surprised if they are booked with appointments for several days because advising is a very busy time. However, advising is not the only time you can contact us. If you have any questions, problems, or need information, give us a call or send us an email. We're here to help! How do I make an appointment with my advisor? You can call or email your advisor directly to make an appointment or you can call the front desk (901.678.2062). Can I be advised if I have a hold on my record? Yes. You can meet with your advisor to pick out your courses even if you have a hold on your record. However, certain holds may stop you from registering, even if you have met with your advisor. Make sure to check your holds before registration begins to ensure that you can register for classes on time. What are my responsibilities? Know your Academic Counselor’s name and location Consult with your Academic Counselor if problems arise Call early to schedule appointments Keep current on academic requirements, policies and procedures Have a list of classes for the upcoming semester Accept responsibility for academic choices Why do I have to take General Education courses? “The purpose of the Tennessee Board of Regents’ general education core is to ensure that college students have the broad knowledge and skills to become life-long learners in a global community that will continue to change. Because courses in general education should emphasize breadth, they should not be reduced in design to the skills, techniques, or procedures associated with a specific occupation or profession. General education provides critical thinking skills for analysis to continue to seek truths, to discover answers to questions, and to solve problems. Specifically, educated people practice and are literate in the various methods of communication. They recognize their place in the history, culture, and diverse heritages of Tennessee, the United States, and the world. They appreciate the web of commonality of all humans in a multicultural world and are prepared for the responsibilities of an engaged citizenship. They recognize the ethical demands of our common lives. They demonstrate the skills and knowledge of the social and behavioral sciences to analyze their contemporary world. They are familiar with the history and aesthetics of the fine arts. They understand and practice the scientific and mathematical view of the world. Finally, Tennessee’s general education core provides for its citizens the means to make a better living. Above all, it enables its citizens to make a better life.” Which students are seen in the Academic Counseling Center? The ACC is here for those students who are undeclared, are pre-nursing, are taking pre-major coursework, or are in transition (i.e., changing their major). I tried to register and it says I need an Alternate PIN from my advisor. What does this mean? This is an advising hold; it means you have not met with your advisor to discuss your classes for the upcoming semester. Contact your advisor to set up an appointment and once you have met they will clear the hold. If you have already met with your advisor and this message still appears, contact them as soon as possible so the hold can be removed. What if I have a question that wasn't answered here? You can send an e-mail to ACC@memphis.edu to have general questions answered. What is the ALEKS exam? The ALEKS Exam covers a broad spectrum of pre-calculus material. The ALEKS system is fully automated and the ALEKS assessment is adaptive. The first questions asked will be drawn from across the curriculum, and may be too easy or too hard. As the assessment proceeds, your answers will be used to give the system an idea of your knowledge, and it will gradually focus the questioning in an individually appropriate way. By the end of the assessment you should find the questions generally challenging but reasonable for your individual level of knowledge. The length of the assessment runs from 35-40 questions. The exact number of questions will vary due to the adaptive mechanism just described. It is likely that you will be asked questions on material you have not yet learned. On such questions it is appropriate to answer, "I don't know." On the other hand, you should do your best to answer any question concerning topics you are familiar with. "I don't know" is interpreted by ALEKS to mean that you do not know the topic, and this will be reflected in the assessment results. If you do not do your best on the assessment, ALEKS will underestimate your knowledge. Do I have to take the ALEKS? Yes. All students must take the ALEKS to enroll in a math course. When students already have a math credit because of AP, dual enrollment, and/or transfer credit, they may not be required to take the ALEKS. Speak to your advisor if you have questions about this. How quickly will I know my ALEKS score? ALEKS scores are updated immediately after finishing the assessment. Can I retake the ALEKS if I'm not happy with my placement? Yes. You receive 4 assessments after the initial one. The second assessment may be started 48 hours after the first assessment. We encourage students to spend several hours in the Prep and Learning Module before taking another assessment. Most students do not improve their score until they utilize the Prep and Learning Module to work on their math skills. You must work in the Prep and Learning Module a minimum of 3 hours between each of the remaining three assessments. How much does the ALEKS cost? The ALEKS is free to students. This includes 5 assessments and up to 6 months in the Prep and Learning Module. What is Learning Support? Learning Support at the University of Memphis permits students to enroll in prescribed courses to develop the academic competencies necessary for success in college level courses. Major components of the program included testing and placement in appropriate level courses. How are students placed into prescribed courses? Students admitted to The University of Memphis as beginning freshmen will be placed in appropriate English, math, and reading courses based on ACT subscores that are less than 3 years old. Students with ACT reading subscores below 19 are required to enroll in ACAD 1100. Students with ACT English subscores below 18 are required to enroll in prescribed English courses. If students feel they have been misplaced by their ACT subscores in English and reading, they may take the COMPASS test to attempt to place in a higher level course. All students, regardless of their ACT math subscore, are required to take the ALEKS placement exam for math. Students without ACT scores will be required to take the COMPASS placement test to determine if they have the appropriate academic skills to successfully complete college level courses. Depending on the results of this test, students may be required to take one or more prescribed courses. The following regulations regarding placement tests and course enrollment will apply: COMPASS testing is required of students whose ACT (SAT) scores are more than 3 years old, transfer students with no college level credit in English, non-degree seeking students before enrollment in English, and students with no ACT/SAT scores. ALEKS testing is required of transfer students with no college level credit in math, and non-degree seeking students before enrollment in a math course. Can anyone enroll in a prescribed course? Enrollment in any prescribed course is restricted to students who have been placed by their ACT subscores or who have taken the appropriate placement test. Self-placement without testing is not permitted. Can I audit the course? Audits into prescribed courses are not permitted. Where can I find the prescribed Reading and English courses in myMemphis? Students required to enroll in prescribed reading courses may take ACAD 1100 to fulfill these requirements. Students with ACT English subscores below 18 are required to enroll in prescribed ENGL 1010 courses that meet 4 days a week for 5 hours. Students must check with their advisor to determine which English course is appropriate for them. What is a "combo course"? A "combo course" is another term for a prescribed course and usually meets 4 days a week for 5 hours. If I realize I am doing poorly in a prescribed course, where should I go for help? Students requiring prescribed courses should be advised in the Academic Counseling Center, 212 Wilder Tower. The academic advisors are trained professionals who can refer you to campus resources to help with whatever academic or personal problems you are having. What is COMPASS and how do I register for the test? COMPASS is an untimed, computerized test that helps your advisor evaluate your skills and place you into appropriate courses. COMPASS offers tests in reading and writing. You will receive your COMPASS test results immediately upon completion of testing, and your score report will include placement messages informing you what courses you should take. Registration information can be obtained by visiting our COMPASS web page . How are COMPASS scores used? COMPASS is not used like a traditional test. There is generally no "passing score." Rather, COMPASS scores indicate areas in which you are strong and areas in which you may need help. Thus, COMPASS can identify problems in major subject areas before they disrupt your educational progress, giving you the opportunity to prepare more effectively for needed courses. Available Hours See when we are available during the week for advising. Frequently Asked Questions Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .