#http://www.memphis.edu/bursar/fees/waivers.php
State of Tennessee Employee Fee Waiver Rules &amp; Procedures - Bursar's Office - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Bursar's Office Staff Directory Fees Calendars Students Parents Campus Card Fees Fee Charts Fee Payment Policies Deadlines, Refunds &amp; Important Dates Fee Payment Methods Installment Payment Plan Explanation of Fees Financial Assistance/ Sponsorships General Info Fee Discounts &amp; Waivers Fee Adjustment (Refund) Policy Home Bursar's Office Fees State of Tennessee Employee Fee Waiver Rules &amp; Procedures State of Tennessee Employee Fee Waiver Rules &amp; Procedures Employees of the State of Tennessee may be eligible to enroll for *one (1) undergraduate or graduate course per semester without payment of tuition, program service fees, RODP program fees and RODP online fees. However, the student remains responsible for payment of all other course fees, material fees, U of M online fees etc. and the submission of a new certified fee waiver form each semester to the Bursar's Office by the appropriate fee payment deadline to avoid deletion of classes . The employment certification on the form should not be any earlier that July 1 for Fall, December 1 for Spring and April 15 for Summer. For detail eligibility guidelines, click on "Fee Waiver Rules for State Employees" below. Enrollment under this program is on a space-available basis only. Participants may not register before the specific deadline for each semester. See the Bursar's Office Calendar for the official first day to register under this program. Participants who register during Late Registration WILL BE ASSESSED a $100 late registration fee not covered by the fee waiver program. NOTE: Enrollment in one course only for each Fall and Spring. Enrollment in two courses for the Summer as long as the courses do not overlap between parts-of-term for the Summer. Summer Example: The fee waiver will cover enrollment in one course for the 1st part-of-term and one course for 2nd part-of-term (parts-of-term do not overlap). The fee waiver will only cover enrollment in one course if enrolled in full term (full term overlaps all other Summer parts-of-term). Enrollment under this program is on a space-available basis only. Therefore participants may not register before the specific deadline for each semester. [See the Bursar's Office Calendar for dates.] Participants who register during a Late Registration period WILL BE ASSESSED a Late Registration Fee of $100 not covered by the fee waiver program. After course selection, participants must submit their approved fee waiver form by the fee payment deadline to The University of Memphis Bursar's Office, 115 Wilder Tower, Memphis, TN 38152-3520. Forms may also be faxed to 901.678.0288. State of Tennessee School Teachers are NOT eligible for this fee waiver. Forms are available from the employee's Human Resources department or from the Tennessee Higher Education Commission's Web site . Fee Waiver Rules &amp; Forms for State Employees Fees Fee Charts Fee Payment Policies Deadlines, Refunds &amp; Important Dates Fee Payment Methods Installment Payment Plan Explanation of Fees Financial Assistance/ Sponsorships General Info Fee Discounts &amp; Waivers Fee Adjustment (Refund) Policy TigerXpress View your statements and pay fees online in TigerXpress. Tuition Estimator How much will your courses cost? Get an estimate online! Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the U of M Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/8/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .