#http://www.memphis.edu/polisci/people/faculty_and_staff/leah-windsor.php
Leah Windsor - Political Science - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Political Science About Undergraduate Graduate JD/MA Program Internships People People Bios Awards and Kudos Home Political Science People Leah Windsor Leah Windsor Research Assistant Professor Phone 901.678.2395 Email lcwells@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2983 Office 418 Clement Hall Office Hours Call for Hours Website CV About Leah Windsor Dr. Windsor joined the department in 2012. She specializes in political language and the politics of natural disasters. In 2014 she received a $1.3m grant from the Minerva Initiative (Department of Defense) to study the language of political leaders in authoritarian regimes and politically closed groups, including leaders like Hugo Chavez and Kim Jong Un, social movements like the Arab Spring, and the language of genocide in places like Rwanda. Her research on natural disasters focuses on the resiliency of the state and the humanitarian consequences of these events. Her work has been published in International Feminist Journal of Politics, Risk, Hazards, and Crisis in Public Policy, and Dynamics of Asymmetrical Conflict. She has several publications currently under review and is preparing a book prospectus related to language and politics. Research Interests Political language; Politics of natural disasters Teaching Interests Revolutions and political violence; Politics in the developing world; International organizations Education Ph.D., The University of Mississippi, 2012; M.A., The University of Memphis, 2005; B.S., Georgetown University, 1998 Publications "Evaluating Climate Migration: Population Movement, Insecurity and Gender." with Nicole Detraz. The International Feminist Journal of Politics . 2013. "The Language of Autocrats: Leaders' Language in National Crises." With Nia Dowell and Art Graesser. (Accepted January 2015) Risk, Hazards &amp; Crises in Public Policy . "Computational Linguistics Analysis of Leaders during Crises in Authoritarian Regimes." With Nia Dowell and Art Graesser. (Accepted March 2015) Dynamics of Asymmetrical Conflict . Experience Instructor with Graduate Faculty Status in Department of Political Science (July 2012-present); Faculty Affiliate, Institute for Intelligent Systems, The University of Memphis People Bios Awards and Kudos Alumni and Friends Find out how you can support the Department of Political Science. News and Events Read about student and faculty awards and semester events. RSO/Clubs The Department of Political Science is affiliated with several UofM registered student clubs. Contact Main office contact and location information. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .