#http://www.memphis.edu/padm/certificates/certificate-pnl.php
Graduate Certificate in Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership - PADM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Public and Nonprofit Administration Masters Certificates Undergraduates People Admission Certificate Information Local Government Certificate Nonprofit Certificate Home PADM Certificates Graduate Certificate in Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership Graduate Certificate in Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership What is the Graduate Certificate in Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership? The need for skilled nonprofit professionals has never been greater both here in the Mid-South and across the country. The Certificate in Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership is designed to provide the advanced skills and cutting edge knowledge necessary for today’s nonprofit professional. Ideal for nonprofit professionals, community volunteer leaders and philanthropists alike, the certificate is offered by the Division of Public and Nonprofit Administration. The certificate requires 15 hours of graduate coursework, all available in both on-campus and online formats. The certificate in Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership offers nonprofit professionals, community volunteer leaders and other interested individuals an opportunity to increase their knowledge of nonprofit leadership and philanthropy theory and practice. What classes are included in the curriculum for the certificate? The certificate requires 15 hours of graduate coursework for completion, four core courses and one elective. The core courses are: PADM 7605 Human Resources Administration PADM 7641 Theory and Practice of Nonprofits PADM 7642 Resource Development for Nonprofits PADM 7643 Nonprofit Leadership and Philanthropy The elective course will be selected with the student and their advisor. All core courses may be taken either on campus or online. Some elective courses may not be available online. How long does it take to complete the certificate? Coursework for the certificate can usually be completed in a 12-18 month time frame. Students must take two courses (6 hours) in both the fall and spring semesters and one additional course (3 hours) in the summer, spring or fall. Can I do the certificate and still work full time? Scheduling for the Certificate in Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership is designed for the working professional. Classes are offered either on campus one night a week or online format. How much does the certificate cost? Tuition and fees for the certificate are the same as regular graduate tuition for the University of Memphis. There is no additional fee for enrolling in the program. The fee schedule is available on the UM web site. Can I earn the certificate while I am enrolled in another degree program at University of Memphis? Yes. The certificate may complement a course of graduate study in a different field. As such, applicants may be enrolled in another graduate degree program. Please contact the Certificate Advisor (below) for more information. How do I apply for admission to the certificate program? Applicants seeking the certificate must first be admitted to the University of Memphis Graduate School through the regular application process. For most students seeking the graduate certificate only, admission will be as a graduate, non-degree seeking student. Applicants will also need to send some materials directly to the Division of Public and Nonprofit Administration. Please click here to download our APPLICATION CHECKLIST Who should I contact for more information about the Graduate Certificate in Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership? Leigh Hersey, PhD University of Memphis 130 McCord Hall Memphis, TN 38152 (901) 678-1754 lnhersey@memphis.edu Certificate Information Local Government Certificate Nonprofit Certificate It's Time to GO Public! Get the knowledge and skills you need to face today's challenges and tomorrow's opportunities. Contact Us Main office contact and location. Partners/Accredited by NASPAA Information regarding our NASPAA accreditation and partners. SUAPP Public and Nonprofit Administration is a part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .