#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/hiad/internship_gradute_assistantships.php
Internship and Graduate Assistantships - LEAD - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Department of Leadership HIAD LDPS Faculty HIAD Menu Online Degree Resources Home LEAD HIAD Internship and Graduate Assistantships Internships and Graduate Assistantships The HIAD internship and assistantship resource site is designed for students earning degrees and certificates from the Department of Leadership - Higher and Adult Education. The internships and assistantships listed on the site are particularly suited for students in this field of study. This site was developed for the following HIAD majors and concentrations: Master of Science in Leadership with a Leadership concentration Master of Science in Leadership with a Student Personnel concentration Doctor of Education in Leadership with a Higher Education concentration Doctor of Education in Leadership with an Adult Education concentration Community College Teaching and Leadership Certificate Internships are required for the master's degree in Leadership with a concentration in Student Personnel and the Community College Teaching and Leadership Certificate. All HIAD programs may use an internship as an elective (consult your advisor). Only degree seeking students are eligible for graduate assistantships and the paid internships. Additionally, Community College Teaching and Leadership Certificate students must do their internship at a public two-year community college. Students are not limited to the programs listed on this site. Many of the listed programs are schools and offices we have worked with in the past where our students have had successful internship experiences. Your advisor can approve other internship sites. Online students not living in this region should consult your advisor for approval of an internship site in your area. Click here for current resource list Internships For HIAD students planning an internship experience for credit, the following procedure is required. These steps must be completed prior to the official start of the semester. Notify your advisor of your intent to participate in an internship. Contact the proposed internship site (contact information is on the resource page). Provide the site supervisor with a current resume. Develop your goals and objectives for the internship experience. Once the site supervisor has approved your request for an internship, contact Dr. Wilson for a permit. Provide Dr. Wilson with your approved goals and objectives prior to the start of the semester (must be approved by your site advisor). Refer to the internship syllabus (HAID 7060/8060) for more details. Graduate Assistantships Graduate assistants are usually selected well in advance of the start date. Each assistantship may have unique application procedures from the hosting department. It is recommended that you contact prospective assistantship sites as soon as possible to be a viable candidate. HIAD Menu Online Degree Resources Apply Now Graduate Catalog Need Help? Contact Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .