#http://www.memphis.edu/nrotc/newsletter/documents/f13_tiger_cruise.pdf
The University of Memphis Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps FALL 2013 TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER New Student Orientation TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER FALL 2013 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER Swim Qualifications FALL 2013 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS Sailing TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER better hands. Our intent is 100% to support these young men and women and do every- thing in our power to set them up for success. We know they are the future of our Naval Forces and want to give them every tool available to help them excel in college and our program and to commission as ensigns and second lieutenants in our Naval Forces. and inspired by the midship- men, officer candidates, and sergeants that make up the unit. As you know so well, this is one of the toughest times ev- er to gain admission to the Na- val ROTC program, and the quality of these young men and women that have made that cut is very evident. While they are very impressive academically and athletically, they are just as noteworthy in their dedication to the unit and their future as leaders of our military forces. The camaraderie in the unit is extremely high, and it is ex- tremely comforting to know how much they support one another in school, in the unit, and socially. I am very proud of each and every one of them and look forward to seeing them commission in the future. So, with such a great be more optimistic and excited for the future. Thank you for everything you do whether you are a student, parent, alumni, staff, or friend of NROTC Memphis. Sincerely, Bradley C. Mai Captain, USN Commanding Officer NROTC, Mid - South Region to help build them into suc- cessful Navy and Marine Corps Officers. I am a surface war- fare officer by trade and, as such, have been in and around cruisers and destroyers most of my career. I have a wonderful wife and four children, and of the Navy life over my career. - between, and overseas in Lon- don, UK and in Bahrain. Our oldest is in college, and our youngest is nearing the end of well - familiar with the trials and concerns of parents and the demands on our young col- lege students today. As I mentioned above, one of the strongest impres- initial time on board is the quality of the staff our Navy and Marine Corps has sent to this unit and of our civilian personnel as well. Their day - to - day dedication to making this unit function is truly inspiring. I know the midshipmen see this, but I also want to assure our family and friends that Greetings to The Uni- versity of Memphis NROTC and our family and friends! I am honored and humbled to have become the commanding officer of such a fantastic or- ganization. From my first week aboard with Freshmen Orientation to the writing of this letter during fall semester finals, I have been incredibly impressed with the quality and dedication of both the staff and students in the unit and also with the incredible pace of ac- tivities and demands on every- ing NROTC Memphis one of the finest ROTC units in the nation. As way of in- in this great Navy of ours for twenty - seven years and am thrilled to cap my career with this tour where I can work with our na- and do my small part Professor of Naval Science FALL 2013 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS comed aboard approximately 50 freshmen into the units with Freshmen Orientations they were held separately on the cam- puses of The University of Mem- phis and The University of Missis- sippi. Furthermore, each unit held a Sea Services Ball during the Fall 2013 semester to celebrate the birthdays of the Navy and Ma- rine Corps. Significantly, four midshipmen participating in the NROTC program under the Col- lege Program were awarded side - load USN or USMC scholarships or advanced standing, securing their places on a path that leads to a commission in 2015 or 2016. As is typical in military service, most assignments are on the or- der of two - three years in duration. As such, NROTC Mid - South bids LT Michael Jacobs, USN, (at Memphis) as he departed for training en route to his depart- ment head tour aboard a Littoral Combat Ship in San Diego, CA. At the University of Mississippi, we bid a fond farewell to GySgt Ste- phen Roberts, USMC, who is now cruit Training Regiment, Parris Island, SC. The units were excited to welcome aboard LT Michael Mayeux, USN, and GySgt LaTravis Wilcox, USMC, as their respective reliefs. As I look forward to the Spring 2014 semester and prepare for sending another 11 midshipmen into service in the Fleet and Fleet Marine Force as commissioned officers, I close with just a few simple words that applies to them, the midshipmen remaining aboard to continue their educa- tion and training, and, indeed, ters Steve J. Skretkowicz Commander, USN Executive Officer al specialty will be assigned. Be- yond the successful navigation of the academic requirements to earn their degrees, the eight have in common that each of them demonstrated the physical fitness, military aptitude, perseverance, teamwork, and ethical decision - making skills necessary for them to earn a commission. I wish them all the best; I am proud of each of them! In addition to the culminating ex- periences of graduation and com- missioning from their time aboard the NROTC Consortium for the officers above, all unit members were active throughout the sum- mer and fall with education, train- ing, and unit activities. Many of members participated in summer training with Navy and Marine Corps units throughout the Unit- ed States and at sea. Those sum- experience to the students and facilitated connecting classroom lessons and on - campus training to real - life service in the Fleet. Re- turning to campuses in the fall, the staff and upperclassmen wel- As I reflect upon unit operations since the Spring 2013 newsletter, I see a productive and active peri- od for the NROTC, Mid - South Consortium. We commissioned eight graduates representing all three universities of the consorti- um The University of Memphis, The University of Mississippi, and Christian Brothers University. Seven commissioned as ensigns in the Unites States Navy and one commissioned as a second lieu- tenant in the United States Ma- rine Corps. The newly commissioned officers bring a diversity of academic spe- cialties to the Navy and Marine Corps team. They earned Bachelor Degrees in Biomedical Engineer- ing, Electrical Engineering, Geo- logical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Mathematics, Nurs- ing, and Professional Studies. Each ensign has departed (or will be departing soon) to begin the next segment of a journey to be- come a qualified pilot, naval flight officer, submarine warfare officer, surface warfare officer, or certi- fied nurse. The second lieutenant will report to The Basic School of the USMC, where his occupation- TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER Marine Officer Instructor fleet tour. I challenge the Midship- men, Officer Candidates and MECEPs to continue building on what we have achieved dur- ing the fall semester and make this Naval ROTC unit even bet- ter. I would like to thank the student company leadership for a job well done! Fair winds and following seas to those who have graduat- ed and received their commis- sions; I hope that what they have learned here at The Uni- versity of Memphis Naval ROTC unit serves them well as they take on the challenges that a Naval Officer will encounter in the Fleet. Semper Fidelis, Tracy A. Perry Major Marine Officer Instructor NROTC The University of Memphis Leading by example is an important lesson for our midshipmen to learn; it will make them a better leader and their Sailors and Marines will do everything in their power to accomplish the mission. In as leaders, take care of our Sailors and Marines. I believe that the staff here at The Uni- versity of Memphis, lead by ex- ample and set the tone for our midshipmen to emulate our leadership styles. It is im- portant to develop a leadership style from your experiences, through education, and from those individuals in which you would follow into combat. We are providing the midshipmen with the basic foundations to develop their leadership style, grow as a leader, and acquire the tools that will make them successful during their first The fall 2013 semester proved to me that the Navy and Marine Corps are getting sound officers through the NROTC pro- Marine Officer Instructor here at The University of Memphis. Our midshipmen are ex- tremely busy during the fall se- mester; whether they are getting accustomed to the rigors are col- lege life, raising money for the Student Recreation Fund, hosting the Lance Corporal Creager 5k, celebrating the Navy and Marine Corps birthdays, and continuing to develop their bodies and minds into our nations future warriors. I continually emphasis the Commanding Officers pri- orities and the three pillars which I believe are vital to our success: academics (our num- ber one priority), physical fit- ness, and professional develop- ment. Our students have em- braced these priorities and through their actions are build- ing a strong foundation for the future of this unit. FALL 2013 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS them to become a Submarine Officer, Surface Warfare Officer, Naval Aviator, Naval Flight Of- ficer, Naval Special Warfare Of- ficer, or Navy Nurse Officer. Each Midshipman lists their de- sired career choices in order of preference, and several weeks later the determinations are re- vealed. All three of this semes- ceived their first choice for ser- vice assignment and this can be directly traced back to their aca- demics performance. As we close out the spring semester, I urge all of our Midshipmen to continue to do their best in all aspects of this NROTC program. Remember, you will soon be the warfighting leaders of the strongest and most technologically - advanced Navy the world has ever seen. This requires excellence in aca- demics, military performance, and physical fitness: areas that I am confident each Midshipman is capable of excelling in. I am privileged to play a large role in future leaders, and I look for- ward to guiding each of you out to the fleet! Very Respectfully, Chris Whitley Lieutenant 1/C & 2/C Advisor gram due to the challenges of balancing it with academics, I am proud that many have decid- ed to continue pursuing their commissions. As a result of their perseverance, our midshipmen have shown a marked improve- ment and an unquenchable drive to succeed. These are in- valuable skills that they will uti- lize their entire lives. I am excit- ed to see the continued progress they make this upcoming semes- ter. One of the most im- portant things I emphasize to my students is to focus on aca- demics. If a midshipman does not succeed academically, he or she cannot commission. Fur- thermore, performing well in academics opens doors to the many opportunities offered by the Navy and is an important factor for determining service assignment. Frankly stated, poor academic performance will close doors and lead to fewer options when senior year comes around. On this note, I would like to mention that I have the privilege of being in charge of service as- signments for the Midshipmen when they become seniors. This is where I submit packages for Hello parents, friends, and Midshipmen of NROTC Mid - South Region, The University of Memphis. I am eager to tell you about all of the exciting things that we accomplished during the fall semester. First, I want to congratu- late the three students who graduated this past semester and earned their commission into the United States Navy. Of these three, one will be a Surface Warfare Officer, one will be a Submariner, and one will be a Naval Aviator. I am incredibly proud of them and wish each the best of luck! The fall semester started off with a freshman orientation in which we received our newest class of midshipmen. Orienta- tion for these young men and woman consisted of eight days of indoctrination into the cus- toms and courtesies of the Navy and Marine Corps and also helped show what is expected of them in the coming weeks and months of the new semester. This is an extremely demanding program, and although some have dropped the NROTC pro- 1/C & 2/C Advisor TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER In addition to being the 3 rd /4 th class advisor, I am also the re- cruiting officer and have met with many interested students and families over the last several months. I appreciate their interest and look forward to receiving these prospective students on Na- vy or Marine Corp Scholarship or as a College Programmer chal- lenging themselves to select for a scholarship in the near future. Very Respectfully, Michael Mayeux Lieutenant 3/C & 4/C Advisor The staff and students of The University of Memphis NROTC unit would like to thank Lieu- tenant Michael Jacobs for his dedication and support during his time as the 3/C and 4/C Advisor. Good luck in your fu- ture endeavors, you will be missed. men have displayed since last se- mester. It has been a pleasure to witness their enthusiasm and per- severance as they continuously approach and overcome each ob- stacle. At every level, all our stu- dents are beginning to understand just what it means to be a leader and exceed the standards and re- quirements laid out before them and continue to pave the way for the next arrival of potential Navy and Marine Corps Officers. Our staff continuously preaches the importance of academic excel- lence, the hallmark of success in our program. Through intense physical training and continued professional development, each student pushes themselves and their shipmates to reach their ulti- mate goal. How far our current fresh- man class has come has struck me as the defining measure of how capable this unit truly is. From new student orientation to assum- ing greater leadership roles, each freshman (Fourth Class Midship- men) has the opportunity to showcase their leadership quali- ties and prove that they belong in we have lost a few along the way, our current underclass midship- men are enduring and are being molded into well - seasoned lead- ers. Their overall GPA last semes- ter was a 3.19, and I expect them to challenge themselves and im- prove upon that this semester. While many of our freshmen and sophomores have accepted and are currently on scholarship, we have some who are doing their best to earn their scholarships. They continue to put forth the ef- fort needed to remain competi- tive, and I look forward to swear- ing in as many naval reserve offic- ers as possible this summer. It is a pleasure to join this fine NROTC unit and become a member of the Tiger team. of the University of Memphis NROTC unit these past few months and have had the privi- lege of seeing what our students can accomplish, let me quickly introduce myself. I am from De- Ridder, Louisiana and graduated from Louisiana State University. I earned my commission from Of- ficer Candidate School in New- port, Rhode Island in 2008. Upon graduation, I reported as the Elec- trical Officer onboard USS CHAFEE (DDG - 90) stationed in Pearl Harbor, HI where I com- pleted multiple Western Pacific deployments and qualified as a Surface Warfare Officer. In 2011 I reported aboard the newest guid- ed - missile destroyer in the Navy, USS MICHAEL MURPHY (DDG - 112), as the Fire Control Officer. As part of her pre - commissioning crew, I had the privilege of com- missioning her in New York City in Oct 2012 before home porting in Pearl Harbor. I have been extremely im- pressed with the determination and hard work that our midship- 3/C & 4/C Advisor FALL 2013 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS Assistant Marine Officer Instructor ted am I to accomplishing my Commitment is the spirit of de- termination and dedication found in Sailors and Marines. It leads to the highest order of discipline for individuals and units. It is the ingredient that enables 24 - hour a day dedica- tion to Navy, Marine Corps, and country. It inspires the un- relenting determination to achieve a high standard of ex- cellence in every endeavor. Along with commitment the midshipmen also have to be dedicated. They should not al- low anything or anyone to get in the way of achieving their goal to become a Navy or Ma- rine Corps officer. Semper Fidelis, Quinton A. Shaw Staff Sergeant / USMC AMOI NROTC The University of Memphis There is no doubt that this semester presented many challenges to the young men and women of The University of Memphis NROTC unit. We started with a strong group of individuals committed to im- proving themselves and those around them. As a Marine Corps leader, I had to deal with Marines on a daily basis and I can say with full confidence that these midshipmen are very professional and know how to conduct themselves in a professional manner. As future leaders, they need to contin- ue to develop their leadership style and lead by example. Looking forward into the next semes- ter, all midship- men need to ask themselves, CORTRAMID East CORTRAMID is a sum- mer training program for USN, and USMC Midshipmen after the freshman year of ROTC. The program introduces every major community of the Navy in just four weeks. The first week took place in Kings Bay, GA with various simulators on base. The training prepares the Midshipmen for the two days underway at sea toward the end of the week. The second week of CORTRAMID was avi- a t i o n w e e k i n N o r f o l k , V A . Midshipmen are exposed to both fixed wing and rotary wing aircraft through static tours, simulators, and flight time. The highlight of the week comes with acrobatic T - 6 train- er flight. Some lucky Midship- men are given stick time to fly the aircraft under the supervi- sion of the pilot. The Midship- men can expect to experience the feeling of pulling up to 4 - 5 G forces while preforming nu- merous aerobatic maneuvers. The third week of CORTRA- MID is Marine week and it is a completely different change of pace. The Marines turn up the intensity with a boot camp style approach to training in order to maximize perfor- mance of the midshipmen un- der pressure. Some of the many events are Marine week were: rappelling, live fire shooting, obstacle course, pugil sticks, Abrams tank tour, CH - 53 helicopter ride, and close TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER CORTRAMID East - Another Perspective - - - - - - - MOUT town. The final week is Surface Warfare week. The Midshipmen in this phase went underway for four to five days ships. While underway, Mid- shipmen were assigned to a particular crew for the purpose of following them throughout their daily operations and training. Overall, CORTRAMID is a valuable tool for develop- ing future Naval and Marine Corps Officers by exposing the jor communities. In the future, the CORTRAMID experience will help to aide midshipmen in understanding how the Navy and Marine Corps team fight in making their own future career choices. Very Respectfully, Samuel Gargis MIDN 3/C, USNR FALL 2013 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS Mountain Warfare Very Respectfully, Parker Grace MIDN 2/C, USMCR This summer, two Midshipmen from the University of Memphis NROTC took part in a ten day exer- cise in Bridgeport, California known as Mountain Warfare Train- ing Center. This event took place from 21 - 30 June. The first day be- gan with a plane ride to Reno, Ne- vada followed by a bus ride to Bridgeport. Upon arrival, the near- ly 250 Marine Options Midship- men were shown their berthing to stow away gear. Training began the following day with periods of in- struction about the upcoming events and safety. Immediately fol- lowing breakfast on the third day, the Midshipmen and instructors embarked on a three - mile hike to another part of the base where they would bivouac for the night. he mountains. At this site, the partici- pants took part in training activi- ties such as river crossing, rock climbing, and rappelling. On day four, everyone returned to Lower Base Camp for two days of safety and basic survival skills briefs. With packs filled to the brim with equipment, the Midship- men set out for a six - mile hike that would ascend nearly 3,000 feet to LZ Penguin on day six. Here, the young men and women had a chance to practice some of the sur- vival skills they had learned earlier. Some practiced making survival shelters with natural materials while others worked on land navi- gation. After two nights in the field with temperatures dropping into the low 30s, the Midshipmen be- gan the descent back to Lower Base Camp. Here, they were given rides in a CH - 53 Sea Stallion. The final two days were spent cleaning the berthing and preparing for depar- ture. After completing the training, the Midshipmen were better pre- pared to survive in a mountainous region. TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER Submarine Cruise FALL 2013 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS 1/C Aviation Cruise - - - - - - - TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER Six weeks in Quantico, VA was the ultimate leadership test for Midshipman 1/C McAuley and me. We both attended Officer Candidates School (OCS) this summer to determine if we pos- sess the mental, physical, and moral on leadership and whether or not Motivational Bowling - - - Mentor/Mentee Challenge FALL 2013 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS A Memphis Miracle - - - TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER Motivational Laser Tag TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER FALL 2012 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS Ultimate Frisbee TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER Wine Under Wings FALL 2013 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS - - - - Sea Services Ball TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER NROTC Flag Football be easy. When game time rolled around, the Navy and Air force were ready to take the field. The Navy had the ball first and knew what they were going to do. After a few miscommunications, the Navy midshipmen began to com- plete passes and found the formu- la for moving the ball downfield. As a result, the midshipmen scored on the first drive of the game on a touchdown reception by Midshipman 3 rd Class Matt Johnson. It was time to see what scored on their first play on of- fense. After the first drive, the Na- vy struggled to find their groove. Unfortunately, this continued throughout the remainder of the game. The Air Force defended the matchups and coverage. They also continued to move the ball down the field and score. As the game neared its end, Navy began to move the ball very well. The Navy began to read the defense and find holes. As a result, the scored on touchdown reception by Mid- shipman 4 th Class Samuel Lootens late in the game. At this point, it was too late. The Air Force Cadets edged a 42 - 14 victory over the Na- vy Midshipmen. The Navy Mid- shipmen will take on the Army Cadets on 22 NOV 13 in continua- ries. Very Respectfully, Samuel Lootens MIDN 4/C, USNR offensive and defensive sides of the ball. Improvement was seen in a wide range of areas. Positions were filled and assignments were final. The Navy ROTC flag football team was ready to take on the Air Force ROTC. As soon as game day rolled around, the tension could be felt in the air. The Navy ROTC Midshipmen knew what it would take to beat the Air Force Cadets. The Air Force was a well rounded team. They had good plays, speed, and understanding of the game. It was a new year for a new team. The Navy ROTC flag football team was ready to take on the Air Force ROTC in their first flag football game of the season. The game was highly anticipated by both teams. A win would not only result in bragging rights, but im- Cup standings as well. The Navy side had been preparing for this game for several weeks. Practices were held that consisted of route running practice and the imple- mentation of plays on both the FALL 2013 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS - Captain Walker, US Coast Guard TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER Veterans Day FALL 2013 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS - - Ridiculous Obstacle Course Race TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER LCpl Tim Creager Memorial 5K - - FALL 2013 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS Super Squad Competition TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER Midshipman 4/C: Justin Bresee Hometown: Memphis, TN Major: Anthropology GPA: PFT: 227 Desired MOS: Aviation Midshipman of the Semester Sponsored by: Navy League Memphis, Navy Federal Credit Union, and Professor David Burchfield Cover your stuff worldwide for as low as $12/month. FALL 2013 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS - Student Company Commander TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER - Hail and Farewell FALL 2013 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS Fall 2013 Graduates " Ensign Andrew S. Herron The University of Memphis Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering First Assignment - Flight School Pensacola, Florida Ensign Presley D. Morrissey The University of Memphis Bachelor of Professional Studies with a Concentration in Mathe- matics and Naval Science First Assignment - USS Benfold, DDG 65 San Diego, California TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER or sponsoring social events such as tailgates, football games, and reunion weekends and participating in Navy and Marine Corps traditional cele- brations and events. Liaison : Maintain a profession- al relationship with the Profes- sor of Naval Science and the assigned support staff. Bricks are available for all naval officers from The Uni- versity of Memphis and Chris- tian Brothers University. To make a donation, please use website or click the image. ing, financial assistance, social events to all members, and to enhance the visibility of the United States Navy and Marine Corps team and its contribu- tions to the United States. Transition Assistance : Provide a network to link members to- gether as they leave The Uni- versity of Memphis and Chris- tian Brothers University to their first assignment, move between duty stations, exit the Naval Service, transfer from the active to reserve compo- nent, seek civilian employ- ment, or choose to relocate. Mentoring : Offer professional and personal insight to mem- bers by remaining available to Midshipmen or newly commis- sioned officers seeking infor- mation on various career paths, serving as a non - command representative to current military members wanting guidance, or advising members on available military and civilian career opportuni- ties. Financial Assistance : Generate revenue to benefit the AIG and Naval ROTC unit by contrib- uting to scholarship funds or endowment accounts, assisting students with fundraising en- deavors, attending alumni or student run fundraising events, or sponsoring awards and scholarships. Social Events : Connect with The University of Memphis and Christian Brothers Univer- sity Naval ROTC Alumni and current students by attending The Alumni Interest Group (AIG) is new to The University of Memphis Naval ROTC unit. The AIG is looking for alumni who are interested in reconnecting with former classmates, helping to mentor current Midshipmen, financial- ly supporting unit events, or providing their experience since receiving their commis- sion. The AIG hopes to bring these individuals together in order to form a bond that will extend well after their years serving in the military have ended. At the beginning of the semester the AIG began gath- ering contact information for all Navy and Marine Corps of- ficers who graduated or com- missioned from The University of Memphis and Christian Brothers University. The AIG is excited to continue with the next step of connecting with all of the shipmates from the past. An AIG kick - off event is being looked at for the upcom- ing spring semester, with hopes of having numerous Uni- versity of Memphis Naval ROTC alumni in attendance. For more information on the AIG, please contact Ma- jor Tracy Perry at taperry2@memphis.edu. Mission to promote the fellowship and welfare of The University of Memphis and Christian Broth- ers University Naval ROTC alumni and current Naval ROTC students by providing transition assistance, mentor- Alumni Interest Group FALL 2013 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS Upcoming Events Courageous Leadership: Bold Action in the Face of Adversity 26 January 29 January Mardi Gras Drill Meet 28 February Naval Leadership Weekend Date TBD Beale Street Drill Meet 11 April 12 April 5K for Freedom Date TBD Alumni Weekend Date TBD Spring Commissioning Ceremony 09 May Spring Commencement Ceremony 10 May