#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/programs/hooks-graduate-assistants.php
Hooks Graduate Assistants - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections Programs Overview Conferences Lecture Series Research Grants National Book Award Hooks African American Male Initiative (HAAMI) Hooks Graduate Assistants Hooks Scholars Hooks Fellows Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks Programs Hooks Graduate Assistants Hooks Graduate Assistants Graduate Assistantships provide scholarships and stipends to outstanding students who are dedicated to social change. Graduate assistants, full-time students who provide 20 hours of service weekly to the Hooks Institute, research projects, assist staff in developing programs, work with faculty on Institute projects, and receive extensive exposure to the Institute's management and guests, including national figures and noted civil rights activists. These experiences provide graduate students with work experience and credit on certain projects that can be used to show career progression. Former Graduate Assistants Sasha Arnold Sasha Diana Arnold began working with the Hooks Institute in August, 2013 through her graduate assistantship with Dr. Loel Kim in the English department. She worked with Dr. Kim and Director Daphene McFerren to create a website about the civil rights movement and tent cities in Fayette County, Tennessee and the teaching guide for the site. When the institute was asked to conduct a teacher's in-service on the movement for Shelby County educators, Sasha worked to create curriculum-related materials for the teachers. Additionally, she has worked with Special Collections in The University of Memphis libraries to organize and catalog primary-source materials from the Fayette County movement. She is a graduate of Bethel University with a BA in English earned her MA in English here at The University of Memphis. She is currently attending Washington University School of Law. Alicia Clark Alicia Clark began working at the Hooks Institute in September of 2014. She worked on Institute social media and communications, as well as assisting with Institute projects, including the Hooks Institute National Book Award, the Mapping Civil Rights History website, and others. Alicia earned her MA in Applied Anthropology at the University of Memphis, and her research interests include health disparities, reproductive health, and digital &amp; visual media. She received her bachelor's degree in Anthropology from the State University of New York College at Geneseo in 2012. Felecia Malone Felecia Malone began working as a Graduate Assistant with the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change in August 2012. She earned a Master of Public Health Degree with a concentration in Epidemiology from the University of Memphis in 2014. She also holds a Bachelor of Science Degree in Biological Sciences from Clark Atlanta University. Felecia is currently working to earn her degree and become a physician's assistant. Cem Akkus Cem Akkus was a Research Assistant at the Department of Earth Sciences. He received a Bachelor of Mapping Engineering from Karadeniz Technical University in Trabzon, Turkey and Master's degree of Mapping Engineering with a concentration in Geographical Information Systems (GIS) from Yildiz Technical University in Istanbul, Turkey. He also holds a GIS Certificate from University of Memphis. He earned a PhD in the Department of Earth Sciences, at the University of Memphis. Cem was a coordinator of the Hooks GIS mapping website for the Civil Rights Movement. James Conway, July 2013 to November 2013 James earned a Doctorate in History with a concentration in the U.S. and the Civil Rights Movement in 2014. He also holds a Master of Arts in History from the University of Memphis and a Bachelor of Arts from the University of Central Arkansas. Eugene Tee, February 2013 to July 2013 Eugene, a Graduate Assistant with the School of Accountancy, assisted the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute with its accounting and financial needs. He earned a Master's degree in Accounting and CPA certification. He also received a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemistry and Biology from Campbell University. Jennifer Amido, August 2012 to April 2013 2013: Master of Public Administration Degree 2011: B.S. in International Studies and Spanish from University of Memphis. Jennifer is currently working at the City of Memphis Office of Youth. Tera Tongumpun, January to August 2012 2012: Master of Public Health Degree with a concentration in Social and Behavioral Sciences and Health Promotion 2010: B.S. in Biological Sciences from University of Memphis. Tera, is currently working at Methodist Le Bonheur. Armanthia N. Duncan, August 2009 to 2011 Masters Degrees in History and Women and Gender Studies. B.A. in Political Science from Jackson State University, Jackson Mississippi. Duncan's academic research examines, among other things, institutional medical and governmental practices regarding African American female reproductive rights. Brittany Sansbury, September to December 2011 Michael Blum, Summer 2010 &amp; Summer 2011 Bachelor degree in Criminal Justice from York College of Pennsylvania and Master of Arts degree in History from Millersville University. Currently Mr. Blum is a fourth year PhD student working on his doctoral dissertation at the University of Memphis in the African American history department. His dissertation focuses on the civil rights movement in Knoxville, Tennessee. In 2011, he won the history department's Teaching Assistant of the Year Award. Tiffany Johnson, January to April 2011 Amy Livingston, September 2007 to June 2009 2009: Masters of Philosophy Degree 2006: B.A. in Philosophy, University of Memphis Jervette Ward, Summer 2008 Ph.D. English Textual Studies at the University of Memphis 2004 - BA in Journalism News Editorial, with a minor in English, University of Memphis Ward spearheaded the Hooks Institute's Youth for Social Change initiative which sought to create a youth summer program stressing academic excellence and leadership development. Sara D. Smith, February 2005 M.A. in History from the University of Memphis, and B.A. in African and African American Studies Programs Overview Conferences Lecture Series Research Grants National Book Award Hooks African American Male Initiative (HAAMI) Hooks Graduate Assistants Hooks Scholars Hooks Fellows Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .