#http://www.memphis.edu/nrotc/newsletter/documents/f12_tiger_cruise.pdf
The University of Memphis Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps FALL 2012 TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER New Student Orientation The University of Memphis Naval ROTC extended a warm wel- come to a fresh crop of incoming midshipmen, starting with New Student Orientation. This year has seen one of the largest groups of incoming students in recent times, and they show promise as a group. New Student Orientation is de- signed to help new students learn military customs and courtesies, grow accustomed to physical train- ing, and set them up for success during their time in the Naval ROTC program. New Student Orientation was conducted in part at The Uni- versity of Memphis, but the majori- ty of the training schedule took place at Little Rock Air Force Base (LRAFB). Upon their arrival at The University of Memphis, the new stu- dents and parents were welcomed by the orientation staff. The students were issued uniforms, gear, provided haircuts (to those that needed one), and headed to LRAFB. Camp Warlord became their temporary home, providing air - conditioned sleeping spaces and showers. But little time was spent relaxing in the cool air; upon arrival at Camp Warlord, the students were quickly delivered into the hands of the troop handlers, who commenced indoctrination. TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER Camp Warlord and LRAFB, they were introduced to the Colt M16A4, Beretta M9 ser- vice pistol , and .50 caliber sniper rifle at the shooting range. The students were able to view static displays and dis- assemble and reassemble the weapons. Upon returning to The University of Memphis, the students learned basic sailing techniques and set out to sail at Shelby Farms Park, conducting rollover drills and performing sailing maneuvers on Patriot Lake. Ending the day with close order drill, the new stu- dents prepared for the next away their khaki uniforms for the closing ceremonies. They finished off the night with a motivational movie and pizza, signaling the end of the week. The following morning, exactly one week after begin- ning orientation, the new stu- dents participated in a mock PFT/PFA, which assessed their physical fitness according to ing down with stretches, the new students were escorted to the dining facility to eat. To finish off the morning, they re- turned to Camp Warlord to resume close order drill until lunchtime. Not all of the time at Little Rock Air Force Base was spent in close order drill, alt- hough it com- prised a major part of the new couple of days aboard LRAFB involved swim training and qualifications, which ensured that everyone joining the Naval ROTC unit was able to swim. On Thurs- day morning, the final morning at The new students inven- toried their gear, getting rid of unnecessary items for their time at Camp Warlord. They were then quickly escorted in- side their barracks and given a class on how to properly make their racks. Next, they were introduced to close order drill. The basic component of the military discipline starts with drill, and the new students will have a leg up by receiving in- struction prior to their first se- mester in the program. The second day of orien- tation began with a 1 - mile for- mation run led by Major Perry, Officer Instructor. After cool- FALL 2012 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS Navy and Marine Corps stand- ards. After showering, the new students changed into their khaki uniforms for their first uniform inspection, carried out by the troop handlers. Next, the students marched to Mitchell Hall for the graduation ceremony. Each stu- dent reported to the Command- ing Officer and received their New Student Orientation Certifi- cate of Completion to cheers and applause from family and friends. The day ended with a barbeque at the Naval ROTC unit. After which, the midship- men were dismissed to return home and prepare for a success- ful first semester at The Universi- ty of Memphis or Christian Brothers University. Very respectfully, Isaac Parrish Midshipman 3/C, USNR TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER Swim Qualifications FALL 2012 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS Sailing TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER better hands. Our intent is 100% to support these young men and women and do every- thing in our power to set them up for success. We know they are the future of our Naval Forces and want to give them every tool available to help them excel in college and our program and to commission as ensigns and second lieutenants in our Naval Forces. and inspired by the midship- men, officer candidates, and sergeants that make up the unit. As you know so well, this is one of the toughest times ev- er to gain admission to the Na- val ROTC program, and the quality of these young men and women that have made that cut is very evident. While they are very impressive academically and athletically, they are just as noteworthy in their dedication to the unit and their future as leaders of our military forces. The camaraderie in the unit is extremely high, and it is ex- tremely comforting to know how much they support one another in school, in the unit, and socially. I am very proud of each and every one of them and look forward to seeing them commission in the future. So, with such a great be more optimistic and excited for the future. Thank you for everything you do whether you are a student, parent, alumni, staff, or friend of NROTC Memphis. Sincerely, Bradley C. Mai Captain, USN Commanding Officer NROTC, Mid - South Region to help build them into suc- cessful Navy and Marine Corps Officers. I am a surface war- fare officer by trade and, as such, have been in and around cruisers and destroyers most of my career. I have a wonderful wife and four children, and of the Navy life over my career. - between, and overseas in Lon- don, UK and in Bahrain. Our oldest is in college, and our youngest is nearing the end of well - familiar with the trials and concerns of parents and the demands on our young col- lege students today. As I mentioned above, one of the strongest impres- initial time on board is the quality of the staff our Navy and Marine Corps has sent to this unit and of our civilian personnel as well. Their day - to - day dedication to making this unit function is truly inspiring. I know the midshipmen see this, but I also want to assure our family and friends that Greetings to The Uni- versity of Memphis NROTC and our family and friends! I am honored and humbled to have become the commanding officer of such a fantastic or- ganization. From my first week aboard with Freshmen Orientation to the writing of this letter during fall semester finals, I have been incredibly impressed with the quality and dedication of both the staff and students in the unit and also with the incredible pace of ac- tivities and demands on every- ing NROTC Memphis one of the finest ROTC units in the nation. As way of in- in this great Navy of ours for twenty - seven years and am thrilled to cap my career with this tour where I can work with our na- and do my small part Professor of Naval Science FALL 2012 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS University of Memphis/ Christian Brothers University side of our NROTC consortium. Part of the course involved the students maintaining a reflected on their experiences and provided their thoughts on the complex interactions in- volved among a leader, the fol- lowers, and the situation. From was clear that the students un- derstood that leadership (and followership) can be difficult. A common thread of reflection that emerged among the journal entries was the value of and ne- cessity for clear, effective com- munications. Indeed clear, ef- fective communication is funda- mental to the success of almost every endeavor in life. Ironical- ly, effective communication is usually not an inherent talent; it is an acquired skill and one that NROTC. I proposed to some of the students the following rubric for judging their own effective- ness in communication; I share it here for your consideration: Communication 101 I wish all a happy and healthy holiday season, and I look forward to steaming at All Ahead Flank into 2013 with you shortly! Make Smart Choices! Steve J. Skretkowicz Commander, USN Executive Officer NROTC, Mid - South Region Rock Air Force Base). I was ex- tremely pleased with the enthu- siasm and commitment exhibit- ed during the indoctrination, and I continue to be delighted by their continued pursuit of excel- lence throughout the semester. To witness the transformation from recent high school gradu- ates to fully engaged, proactive unit members who have em- braced and put into practice the ideas of which I spoke at orien- tation excellence in both aca- demics and physical fitness and the demonstration of an apti- tude worthy of a commission is absolutely thrilling to me. Simi- larly, to observe how the sopho- mores, juniors, and seniors have matured and further developed their leadership skills in a varie- ty of ways was very satisfying. I am continually impressed by the An additional aspect of my duties and responsibilities that I find particularly reward- ing is the privilege to teach aca- demic courses. This semester I What a truly exciting summer and fall semester it has been for NROTC, Mid - South Re- gion! We commissioned several from our ranks as ensigns in the U. S. Navy or second lieutenants in the U. S. Marine Corps and bid them fond farewells as they departed on the next segments of their professional journeys. The last few months were argua- bly equally exciting for the stu- dents who are still aboard and pursuing their academic degrees and commissions. During the summer of 2012 the majority of the NROTC students participat- ed in the summer training pro- gram that included opportuni- ties aboard aircraft carriers, sub- marines, frigates, amphibious ships, or at USMC Mountain Warfare Training or USMC Of- ficer Candidate School. Some students even had the oppor- tunity to participate in foreign exchange cruises aboard surface combatants of the Japanese and Belgian Navies. In August we welcomed aboard our incoming freshmen with an orientation program at Camp Warlord (of the Little TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER Marine Officer Instructor three pillars which I believe are vital to our success: academics (our number one priority), physical fitness, and profession- al development. Our students have embraced this philosophy and through their actions are building a strong foundation for the future of this unit. Average GPA increased from 3.08 in the spring 2012 to 3.26 this semes- ter; physical readiness scores trended upward and physical fitness test scores increased by 5 points. In addition, our stu- dents are developing the neces- sary skills to think inde- pendently and make sound de- cisions. Most are well on their way to becoming fine Naval Of- ficers and with the proper guid- ance and direction from the staff, they will lead our Navy/ Marine Corps into the future. I challenge the Midship- men, Officer Candidates and MECEPs to continue building on what we have achieved dur- ing the fall semester and make this Naval ROTC unit even bet- ter. I would like to thank the student company leadership for a job well done! Fair winds and following seas to those who have graduat- ed and received their commis- sions; I hope that what they have learned here at The Uni- versity of Memphis Naval ROTC unit serves them well as they take on the challenges that a Naval Officer will encounter in the Fleet. Semper Fidelis, Tracy A. Perry Major Marine Officer Instructor NROTC The University of Memphis developing those leadership traits and principles which will make them better leaders. We are looking for leaders who are self - reliant, disciplined, and responsible for their actions. Each student should strive to develop a leadership style that suits him/her and continue to learn about the things that make a leader great! The motto at Officer Candidates school is Ductus Exemplo which is Latin for others follow without question is a tribute to the type of leader who is giving the orders. The leader has gained the respect and admiration of his/her sub- ordinates and most likely his/ her superiors, but that is not what makes a great leader. A great leader sets the example for everyone to follow, all the time while completing the as- signed mission and taking care of their Marines and Sailors. Over the course of this semester, I have discussed the at The University of Memphis Naval ROTC unit, the students have exceeded my expecta- tions; their ability to accom- plish any assigned task is truly remarkable, and the future of our Navy/Marine Corps team looks very promising. The Na- val ROTC unit is a training en- vironment where the staff evaluates the future leadership potential of Midshipmen, Of- ficer Candidates, and MECEPs; I believe that our students are FALL 2012 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS have the ability to either open doors in a career or slam them shut. It could be the difference between determining what they want to do in the Navy and being told what to do. Do not let grades be a limiting fac- tor in life. Be able to choose the adventure. I am not proud of my grades in college, and I rarely mention my major. I do not want this to happen to my stu- dents. My question to the mid- shipmen in this unit is; are you doing everything possible to achieve success by giving noth- ing but your absolute best? Will your major get you a good job outside of the Navy? Please reflect on these questions and make wise decisions while you always get second chances in life. It has been a privilege and a pleasure to have spent two years here; and I look for- ward to seeing you all in the fleet! If you ever need to find me in the fleet, I recommend that you start with your SO- NAR system! Good Grades Pay Off! Very Respectfully, Edward J. May Lieutenant 1/C & 2/C Advisor NROTC The University of Memphis listed service member or an of- ficer. This fall semester has also been an incredibly re- markable successful and active semester. One of the highlights in the semester was the release of service assignment results. This is always an exciting, fun, and suspenseful time during the semester. Although not all of the seniors received their first choice, they are all ex- tremely excited to know where the next leg of their journey begins. Midshipman Wilson is especially excited because she passed her interview with a four star admiral to be desig- nated as a nuclear surface war- fare officer. Congratulations to all of the graduating seniors! This next semester will be last semester here before I rotate to submarine depart- ment head school in May. As I leave, I want to reflect on the importance of academic suc- cess. Grades are the number one indicator of how well a stu- dent performs and how much effort they put into succeeding. These grades will follow them around for the rest of their lives and they will either haunt their dreams or make them ex- tremely proud. These grades It has been an exciting and challenging summer and fall semester this year! This past summer a few of our midshipmen got a firsthand look at what life is like in the fleet. Some of these experiences include a subma- rine female cruise from Guam to Hawaii, an aircraft carrier nuclear cruise out of Norfolk, Va, two foreign exchange cruis- es out of Japan and Belgium, and other various cruises out of San Diego, Norfolk, and May- port. The midshipmen who were able to attend these sum- mer cruise training programs received invaluable fleet expe- rience where they were able to see what it is like to be an en- 1/C & 2/C Advisor TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER will meet and exceed all chal- lenges in his future endeavors. As the recruiting officer I have met with numerous potential students, families, and guid- ance counselors interested in the Naval and Marine Corps ROTC program. I continue to enjoy their encouraging and supporting comments and look forward to seeing these future students under a Navy or Ma- rine Corps Scholarship or working diligently towards one in the near future. To the graduating stu- ward to meeting you again out in the fleet! Take care of your shipmates; you now have the learned here, train like you fight, and remember to squeeze in a little fun! Very Respectfully, Michael S. Jacobs Lieutenant 3/C & 4/C Advisor NROTC The University of Memphis any challenge they may face. They are hungry to learn and willing to add value to the fu- ture of tomorrow. Afghanistan and Iraq are seemingly wind- ing down, and the NROTC midshipmen are witnessing firsthand the transformation the military is undertaking to serving freedom. Golf Compa- ny continues to be humming along on all cylinders this se- mester which is a testament to the exceptional work of the top four billets! The road to a Navy and Marine Corps commission is paved with good intentions and now a new Staff Sergeant! As always, we have lost a few more midshipmen that could not meet the challenges. The strong and determined contin- ue to rise to the top to take over the watch from the war weary on the front lines! Being a Mustang (prior enlisted and now commis- sioned officer) and University all the fleet experience that the Marine Corps Enlisted Com- missioning Education Pro- grammers (MECEP) and the Seaman to Admiral (STA - 21) Officer Candidates bring to the Naval ROTC unit. They contin- ue to act as role models to our young midshipmen and pro- vide them with valuable in- sight, guidance, and wisdom to be successful in the fleet. For- tunately we will lose one to the Marine Corps at the end of this semester. I have no doubt he The Fall 2012 semester brought in some new faces and a few changes in philosophy! Golf Company has adjusted well, and these new challenges are starting to make the unit better. The military is continu- ously changing and adapting to meet its obligations. If you are not willing to change and adapt, you are going to quickly be relegated to the annals of history as time passes you by! The student COC had to quick- ly adjust to fluctuations at the top and showed a level of ma- turity that will serve them well in the service of their country. From where I sit morale seemed to improve in every as- pect, and the unit was very in- dustrious. We have added an outstanding set of new fresh- men and sophomores to our ranks, and they are meeting and exceeding all challenges. They are maturing into the fu- ture leaders of this great na- tion. We have seen soft spoken, timid men and women bloom into an attitude of taking on 3/C & 4/C Advisor FALL 2012 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS Assistant Marine Officer Instructor competitions, races, and lead- ership conferences. I am defi- nitely looking forward to chal- lenging each and every one of you. As long as I am the AMOI, my goal is to ensure you meet Semper Fidelis, Quinton A. Shaw Staff Sergeant / USMC AMOI NROTC The University of Memphis structor. With one summer down at Officer Candidate School as an Academic Instruc- tor, I can tell you that becoming an officer is not an easy journey rine Corps. Good officers are made not born. If you have the desire and willpower, you can become an effective leader and officer. Officers develop through a never - ending process of self - study, education, train- ing, and experience. The fall semester is now in our rearview mirror. We must embark upon a new year and semester with the same te- nacity and dedication that we began with in August in order to meet the new challenges and obstacles that we will face dur- ing the spring. Over the winter break you should continue with your physical fitness program because the physical training will incrementally become more difficult. There will be opportunities that I encourage you to participate in once the new semester starts, i.e. drill The time for change at The University of Memphis Naval ROTC unit has come again with the changing of the Assistant Marine Officer In- structor (AMOI). As the new developing future officers men- tally, morally, and physically. As future officers you have to learn how to adapt, improvise, and overcome all types of changes, even command changes. First Sergeant Kam- mer has left a strong founda- tion for me to maintain and build on. I would like to wish him and his family the best as they start their new tour. As a drill instructor, I supported the training and de- velopment of future enlisted Marines. I wanted to continue developing the future of the Marine Corps, and I decided that my skills could be effective to apply for the position of Assistant Marine Officer In- CORTRAMID East CORTRAMID East be- gan Thursday 5 July 2012, and the students from The Univer- sity of Memphis Naval ROTC program CORTRAMID East were all in Echo Company. The journey started out with Marine week. This week was action packed, high paced, and filled with thrills starting as soon as the Midshipmen got off the bus at Camp Lejeune, NC with everyone scrambling to get all their gear situated and stowed. Marine week was filled with exciting events in- cluding eating good old fash- ioned MREs, repelling, shoot- ing big guns, and of course get- ting yelled at by Gunnery Ser- geants. It also included a paintball simulation course in a fake town. The weeks most exciting event was flying in a V - 22 Osprey. After Marine week, it was off to Surface week. The Midshipmen went on one of three ships: the USS Mason, the USS Whidbey Island, or the USS Gettysburg. For those Midshipmen on any ship, but the Whidbey Island Surface week was apparently an in- TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER CORTRAMID West Nevada, which is an SSBN. While on board, the Midship- men were treated to a meal with the Captain and were giv- en a chance to listen to sonar, serve as the conning officer, serve as helmsman, participate in a fire drill, and toured the entire submarine. Finally, during Marine week, the Midshipmen were transported to Camp Pend- leton, where they spent the week with active duty Marines who had just returned from a deployment. The first day the Midshipmen ran an obstacle course, fought with pugil sticks, and did a short workout with the Marines. The next day, the Midshipmen went to a Marine aviation squadron where they learned about the different helicopters used by the Marines. The following day, they witnessed a weapons demon- stration with 81mm mortars, a SMAW, an M - 240, and a .50 caliber machine gun. The Mid- time was split into four weeks for the four separate branches that Naval ROTC Midshipmen could join after commission- ing. Those are Surface Warfare, Aviation, Submarines, and Ma- rines. CORTRAMID West in- cluded Midshipmen from dif- ferent units from all over the country. The Midshipmen we split into eight different com- panies, and these companies each experienced a brief week in the life of the different com- munities. For Surface Warfare week, the Midshipmen went underway on a surface ship, usually a destroyer, and would receive different experiences while aboard the ship. My com- pany was able to witness flight operations off the rear of the vessel, while a different compa- ny was able to witness the fir- ing of the different array of weapons aboard. While not un- derway that week, midshipmen received firefighting training on base. During Aviation week, the Midshipmen learned about the new helicopter class, the H - 60 Romeo and Sierra, and ex- perienced flying in different aircraft. The Midshipmen were taken up in an H - 60 Sierra and were flown around different areas of San Diego, CA. They also each had a chance to fly in a T - 34, which is the plane used in one of the first stages of flight qualifications for pilots. During Submarine week, the Midshipmen were taken by tug boat to a place off the coast and boarded the USS credible experience. Echo Company was now off to Kings Bay, Georgia for Submarine week. When Mid- shipmen were not underway on the sub they were busy doing simulations, learning man overboard drills, how to drive a boat, and even some angles and dangles drills, not to men- tion enjoying the delicious sub- marine galleys. While aboard the submarine, the Midship- men seemed to be in a constant daze trying to adjust to the 18 hour days, running around try- ing to complete the many tasks on a scavenger hunt, and mak- ing pizza with the crew. After all the craziness of underwater life, Echo Compa- ny was back in Norfolk, Virgin- ia for Aviation week. An in- credibly laid back week filled with aircraft simulations, actu- al flight time, and an insightful brief by three master chiefs, which was definitely and amaz- ing finish to CORTRAMID East. It was certainly a valua- ble experience and will ulti- mately assist the Midshipmen in ranking the communities in which they would like to begin their Naval careers. CORTRAMID East 2012 Mon- tage Echo Company: watch?v=hqKaE3PyOvs Very Respectfully, Ingo Bretschneider MIDN 3/C, USNR This summer, three Midshipmen attended COR- TRAMID West which took place in San Diego, CA from May 24 through June 23. The FALL 2012 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS Foreign Exchange Cruise JMSDF. After the ship tours and lunch with our running mates, we went with them to visit the battle- ship Mikasa, which was built at the beginning of the 20 th century. Following this, we headed back to the base to participate in either soccer or softball. I chose to play soccer and, although the Jap- anese Midshipmen won the game by one point, I felt that everyone involved had a great time and that the event helped to boost both morale and camaraderie. After another day and a half of liberty, which included all forty Midship- men visiting Kamakura at once, we had a reception on base with the opportunity to talk to some American and Japanese officers before we got onto the JS Ta- kanami that evening. The next morning we de- parted to Etajima, the location of the Japanese Maritime Officer Candidates School (MOCS), where the Japanese Midshipmen trained. Life on the Japanese de- stroyer for 2 days was definitely an experience. While underway, we had cultural Japanese food for each meal, which took some get- ting used to, particularly using only chopsticks. We also had the opportunity to learn about some to give helm commands in Japa- nese, and had a meal with the CO and XO. Some of the most memo- rable parts of being on the ship were: taking part in flight ops, This summer, I spent 11 days in Japan as part of a Japa- nese Maritime Self - defense Force (JMSDF) Exchange. There were twenty U.S. Navy Midshipmen participating, as well as twenty JMSDF Midshipmen. As the U.S. Midshipmen arrived at the air- port, we took a bus to U.S. Fleet Activities Yokosuka, where we would be staying for the next 4 days. After spending the first night on the Naval base, we spent our first full day in Japan on liber- ty, with the option to take the train to Yokohoma, Tokyo, or Kamakura. Two Midshipmen and I decided to head to Kamakura, because it is a smaller town with cultural features, such as temples and shrines. While in Kamakura, we were able to observe a tradi- tional Japanese wedding taking place at the Shinto shrine, Tsuru- gaoka Hachiman - visiting the second largest bronze Buddha statue in Japan. That night, we were introduced to the Japanese Midshipmen, who would be our running mates for the rest of our time in Japan. The next day, after receiving a brief on the history of the JMSDF Ex- change and its two host countries, we traveled to the other side of Yokosuka Naval Base to tour the USS John McCain and the JS Ta- kanami. Both ships were destroy- ers. It was insightful to see the slight differences and similarities, and it was our first interaction with active duty members of the shipmen were then able to fire several rounds from the M - 240 and the .50 caliber machine guns and a single round from the 81mm mortar. The final day, the Midshipmen em- barked on a 2 - mile condition- ing hike to an infantry immer- sion trainer. The Midshipmen spent the next day with Ma- rines learning how to clear a room, conduct patrols, and dif- ferent movement and fire tac- tics. They were put in an artifi- cial Afghanistan village with simulated ammunition rounds and were subsequently am- bushed to simulate what Ma- rines are experience in combat today. CORTRAMID West was designed to assist the Midship- men in his search of a career, whether it be Submarines, Sur- face Warfare, Aviation, or Ma- rines. Each week is meant to teach the Midshipmen what his/her responsibility may be each day as an officer in the Navy or Marine Corps. Very Respectfully, Matthew Wendel MIDN 3/C, USNR TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER Mountain Warfare the steepest terrain they had to offer, and at a faster pace than the previous conditioning hikes. If anyone fell back, then their packs would be put in the vans. Over their stay at Camp Penguin, the Midshipmen hiked to Mean Peak, the highest peak in the area, were giving classes on skinning animals, setting traps, and survival skills. Each night a senior enlisted or officer was in- vited to sit down with each pla- toon during chow to allow ques- tions about being officers, leader- ship, and knowledge about train- ing. After the majority of train- ing was accomplished, the Mid- shipmen hiked back to lower base to enjoy their final event, Warrior Night, which consisted of a barbe- que meal at the chow hall and a movie. They were allowed liberty to visit the PX and wind down, wash their clothes, and pack their things. The next day was field day, and everyone loaded their gear in the trucks to prepare to leave at 0100 in the morning to be at the airport in time for flights. Overall the training was a fantas- tic experience to prepare these Midshipmen for Officer Candidate School and give them a taste of the lifestyle they are getting into as future Marines. Very Respectfully, Katherine Townsend MIDN 2/C, USMCR On Friday, 22 June 2012 the first wave of Midshipmen ar- rived in Reno, NV to report in for summer training at the Marine Corps Mountain Warfare Training Center (MWTC) in California. The first official day was dedicated to presentations and classes on what we would need to know in order to conduct field training over the next ten days. The instructors explained how to succeed during the training exercises, how to properly use our gear in different weather condi- tions, what to do in the case of emergency, and basic survival skills needed on the mountain. The first conditioning hike was 3 miles to Camp LTA, which proved to be a gut - check for a few Midshipmen along the way. Upon arrival at Camp LTA the platoons rotated through different field clas- ses. The first class was knot tying, where the Midshipmen were taught basic knots that would be used in the future for climbing, repelling, and in creating the rope bridge. The second class was stream cross- ing, where the Midshipmen were taught different ways to cross a flowing stream as a group. The last class was crossing a rope bridge using a self - made harness. That night the Midshipmen bivouacked for the first time, experiencing how cold the nights could get in the mountains. The next day consisted of wall climbing and repelling, fol- lowed by a 3 - mile conditioning hike back to lower base. The Mid- shipmen were allowed to spend the rest of the day in PT gear and flip flops to air out their feet, while they washed their clothes. They also had the opportunity to ask ques- tions and sit down with the Com- manding Officer of MWTC. The third conditioning hike was the most difficult, 4.5 - miles of having ice cream every night, and the heated salt - water bathtub that was on board. Upon arriving in Etajima, we participated in the consisted of the Midshipmen filing off the ship, saluting each member of the crew along the way. As we stepped off to begin our salutes, we nitely a pleasant surprise. Once at MOCS, we were given a tour of the facilities as well as a demonstration of the activities that the students participate in. We were able to meet with the superin- tendent, a Rear Admiral of the JMSDF, as well as witness Kendo, Judo, and practice calligraphy in Japanese. That evening we headed to Hiroshima, where we would spend the night and the next day. One of the most surreal moments of entire trip was visiting the Hiroshima Peace Memorial with our Japanese running mates. sights, we headed back to MOCS for our last evening with the Japa- nese Midshipmen. The next morn- ing, we witnessed the seemingly routine, followed by a quick break- fast. Before I went to Japan, I had never been overseas, so there was definitely an initial culture shock. However, with more expo- sure to the Japanese culture I found myself wanting to learn more and more about my running mates. I am very grateful that I was able to participate in the JMSDF Exchange, as I had a blast and was able to get a small insight Very Respectfully, Andrew Herron MIDN 1/C, USNR FALL 2012 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS At first, I wasn't sure what to expect of a nursing cruise. Re- ceiving orders to board the USS Peleliu , an amphibious assault ship, seemed general enough for any Midshipman to have an ex- perience related to their future career as a naval officer. Little did I know that the Peleliu and Expeditionary Strike Group 3 were nicknamed "The best medi- cal team on the waterfront," both by its crew and the Commanding Officer. As a future nurse, I could not have been better suited for this training. Submarine Cruise flooding and reactor compart- ment drills, and learn about damage control. Mainly, we were in- structed to walk around the USS Dallas and learn as much as we could about the subma- rine and the lifestyle of subma- rines. Some of things we were able to experience were observ- ing the process of unloading a torpedo, learning how the reac- tor compartment works, how to track contacts, listen to so- nar, and how to act while on the bridge. Also we were able to ex- perience the maneuvering watch, being at test depth, per- i s c o p e d e p t h , a n d a n g l e s a n d dangles. We were also able to learn about wardroom eti- quette and had a chance to meet and talk to the Com- manding Officer of the USS Dallas. During our meeting with the Captain, we were able to talk to him about the future of the submarine community, and we asked his advice for fu- ture submarine officers. This summer I traveled to the Naval Submarine Base New London in Groton, Con- necticut for my Midshipman 2 nd class cruise. I was able to experience a week underway aboard the USS Dallas (SSN 700) with five other Midship- men. The USS Dallas is a fast attack submarine of the LOS ANGELES class which was commissioned on July 18, 1981. On board the USS Dallas we were able to experience the lifestyle and jobs of the enlisted men and officers while under- way on a submarine. As a second class Mid- shipman, I ate my meals in the Crews Mess and slept in the nine man berthing. I had an enlisted Sailor, a mechanic in the engine room, as my learn about the different equip- ment in the engine room which includes the diesel engine, CO2 scrubbers, oxygen generator, AC/DC generators, and the re- frigeration system. On the submarine we were able to learn about the weapons ordinance on board, navigation systems, and the nuclear reactor by attending Midshipman school of the boat. We were able to partici- pate in fire drills, observe Nurse Cruise Overall this cruise was an eye opening experience for me, it allowed me to see all the chal- lenges associated with life aboard a submarine, but also showed me the opportunities and knowledge someone will gain by serving on a submarine. This cruise enhanced my inter- est in joining the submarine community, but also taught me one. I strongly recommend a submarine cruise to anyone who has the opportunity, because it is a great experience and one of the hardest working communi- ties in the Navy. Very Respectfully, James Zaken MIDN 2/C, USNR TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER ready learned how to draw blood, make beds with pa- tients, insert catheters, work in the lab, and most of all provide patient - focused has prepared me for my future as a Navy nurse. Thanks to the helpful- ness and engagement of the ship's crew with my training experience, I look forward to learning more in the coming summers. Very Respectfully, Isaac Parrish MIDN 3/C, USNR Since this was my first cruise, I took in the surround- ings of the ship and the com- plex processes involved in eve- ryday operations while at sea. The Peleliu conducted continu- ous flight operations through- out its first underway, which included vertical takeoff and landing of AV - 8B Harriers, CH - 46 Sea Knights, AH - IW Co- bras, Hueys, and nearly every other craft from HMM - 364 Marine flying squadron (informally known as the "Purple Foxes"). What one must realize is that medical is involved in every aspect of the ship, because the ship's crew is involved in every aspect of the ship. Each area of major op- erations (in my case, the flight deck and the well deck) must have personnel on hand in the event of a medical emergency. These battle dressing stations, abbreviated BDS, are like a miniature emergency room where immediate wounds can be diagnosed and dressed be- fore the casualty is evacuated to medical. Upon entering the triage area, the patient can travel to the emergency room, the operating room, or the doc- tor's exam table, depending on the severity of the injury. The training that I re- ceived this summer will benefit me greatly as I start nursing school this spring. Having al- OCS Six weeks in Quantico, VA was the ultimate leadership test for Midshipman 1/C McAuley and me. We both at- tended Officer Candidates School (OCS) this summer to determine if we possess the mental, physical, and moral strength to lead Marines as company grade officers. After a few slow days of in - processing, pickup day came and we were formed into our training pla- toons that we remained in for the duration of OCS. From this day on there were countless hours of instruction and evalu- a t i o n t o d e t e r m i n e h o w w e l l knowledge is retained for use in practical applications as well as written examinations. Each event was evaluat- ed in the fast pace and high stress OCS environment de- signed to as closely as possible simulate decision making in combat. Stress came from the Sergeant Instructors, candi- dates, and other factors such as time constraints and lack of sleep. The conditioning hikes and physical training sessions were strenuous, but each day still required performance physically and mentally. There were failures as well as suc- FALL 2012 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS cesses for most throughout the training process that provided valuable learning experiences. Determination and resilience was important in order to pro- gress as the challenges became increasingly difficult. Evaluation was constant and was broken down into three categories: academics, physical fitness, and leader- ship. The emphasis was on leadership and whether or not you show potential to continue growing as a leader. An im- portant focus is the realization that as a leader it is not about you or simply personal achievement, but always about those you lead. The University training program provides ex- cellent training for OCS. Suc- cess is driven by how you take the training here at the Naval ROTC unit and apply that with what you learned at OCS, in order to lead peers and act con- fidently. Very Respectfully, Preston Beazley MIDN 1/C, USMCR 1/C Surface Warfare Officer Cruise To begin, this cruise was approximately three weeks; there were seven Midshipmen who boarded the USS John C. Stennis aircraft carrier. We met our sponsor who was in charge of setting up various tours and paired us with our designated running mates who and stowing our gear in our rooms, we went out to visit San Diego, CA for a day. The ship was scheduled to go underway the next morning. Before go- ing underway the Midshipmen were assigned to various van- tage points to observe sea - and - anchor. The aircraft carrier stayed underway off the Cali- fornia coast conducting various training exercises for their nu- clear reactors which included several general quarter drills. While underway we took sever- al tours of the engineering spaces, the nuclear reactor, and several other places on board. company and riders on board. In addition, we had to stand several watch hours on the bridge and other areas for edu- cational experiences. We were allowed on the flight deck to watch flight ops, shot several weapons, took a helicopter ride, and talked to several dif- ferent officers while eating meals in the wardroom. The wardroom allowed us to meet several officers from different backgrounds who gave us ad- vice and were honest about how they felt about being in the Navy. We also ate lunch with the Admiral and Captain on board who told us their stories of their upcoming and humble beginnings. Finally, after conducting the drills for two weeks we headed back into San Diego to drop off the air wing and its entire crew. The crew had just completed a seven month de- ployment and did not expect to deploy again until December. The Admiral made an an- nouncement that they were getting deployed in late Au- gust, four months ahead of schedule. The morale seemed to drop due to the change in deployment timeline. The en- listed Sailors and officers were saddened by the news. The of- ficers had to hide their emo- tions from the enlisted person- nel in order to motivate them. The news will surely create leadership challenges for the crew prior to the deployment. TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER my running mate, a lieutenant I would be following and taking notes from for the remainder of my time on board. He wel- comed me to the ship and gave me a great tour of the bow of the ship where the focsle (anchor room) is located, and we worked our way back to the engine rooms. While aboard we had a presidential underway, the namesake President made an appearance. It was a great ex- perience and a privilege to be accompanied by George H.W. Bush! It is not very often when you will see a namesake visit the vessel. I had the opportunity to visit the flight deck during flight operations. Flight stu- dents were shooting off and landing hornets and super hor- nets. With strict supervision by Officer of the Deck and Con- ning Officer. I also was able to play the role of the Conning Officer on the ship, in this role I called commands changing The remainder of my time was spent working near the reactor. This is where I learned how the ship came to life. All in all my time spend on the ship was a memorable one. Very Respectfully Presley Morrissey MIDN 1/C, USNR I had the pleasure of spending my Midshipman First Class Cruise on the USS George H. W. Bush (CVN 77) a United States Navy Air Craft Carrier. This particular cruise was a SWO Nuke cruise. When I ar- rived at the ship I was met by The officers told us that this is what we were going to be dealing with in the future, personal and career issues of sailors. After dropping off the air wing, we sailed towards Seattle while the nuclear team complet- ed their exams and got the ship ready for deployment. After docking we were allowed liberty and departed home the next day. Very Respectfully, Acker - Moorehead, Jon - Ashton MIDN 1/C, USNR SWO Nuke Cruise On 25 August 2012, I volunteered for the Over the Edge event. This is an annual event that is hosted and bene- fits the Special Olympics of Greater Memphis. As a volun- teer, you have to be very thera- peutic to calm those before they rappel 365 feet down the White Station Tower. The vol- unteers make safety their num- ber one priority. The partici- pants are double and triple checked before they rappel down the training one - story area and even checked multiple more times before doing the full 365 feet. Over the Edge FALL 2012 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS The volunteers help with getting participants checked in, putting on their rappelling gear, hooking them into the rappelling ropes, and belaying. In order to become a participant, an individual must raise $1,000 to rappel. As a volunteer, I helped for 13 hours over two days and was able to rappel multiple times. Very Respectfully, Meagan C.A. Menzel MIDN 1/C, USNR This event was not the only way these motivated young men and women gave their time to help out in the community. Members of the Memphis Naval ROTC unit al- so spent many weekends walk- ing dogs with the Memphis Humane Society, teaching the Boys Scouts of America, coun- seling for church youth group activities, and coaching pee On 15 September 2012, several Midshipmen from The University of Memphis Naval ROTC unit spent their Satur- day helping with Habitat for Humanity. Those who partici- pated learned several im- portant steps about building a house. Rather than standing and watching, they took an ac- tive and participatory role in putting up siding and roofing under layers. When the day was over, around 2:00 p.m., the Midshipmen had made tre- mendous amount of progress in completing the roof. Giving Back wee football, as well as many more individual efforts. They spent a considera- ble amount of time helping the local Marine Corps Reserve unit with Toys for Tots, a pro- gram that collects toys around Christmas time and gives them to less - fortunate children in the Shelby County area. Altogether, the company accumulated a remarkable 1,342 total hours of volunteer- ism with 20 Midshipmen earn- ing individual achievement awards for having over 15 hours. The Midshipmen of The University of Memphis Naval ROTC unit hopes to keep this dedication to helping the com- munity strong in upcoming se- mesters. Very Respectfully, Jordan Grace MIDN 3/C, USMCR TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER FALL 2012 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS Students Ben Morton, and Student Government Associa- tion President Russell Born. Very Respectfully, Clara Barnes Midshipman 3/C, USNR The rose was placed in the vase and a salute was rendered to those who had lost their lives eleven years before. Students took the time to pause on their way to class and pay their re- spects. Special guests included The University of Memphis President Shirley Raines, Dean of Students Stephen Petersen, Associate Dean of On Tuesday, 11 Septem- ber 2012 the three ROTC branches assembled on the Student Plaza in front on the University Administration building. The Army, Navy, and Air Force ROTC units formed up facing the colors, ready to remember the fallen. John Sel- berg, fire chief of the German- town Fire Department and 1983 graduate of The Universi- ty of Memphis, was the guest speaker. He stood at the podi- um and delivered a powerful speech that recounted his time at the Pentagon in the hours following this tragedy. Selberg talked of his days as an emer- gency responder. dress, three ROTC students participated in a rose ceremo- ny. To the right of the podium, a table had been set up with a picture of each attack site and a vase. As Air Force ROTC Cadet Hayes described the events of that fateful day, each of the three students took turns walk- ing to the table, rose in hand. 9/11 Commemoration FALL 2012 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS Memphis Naval ROTC unit dis- plays a formal sword arch at the entrance for the military personnel and guest entering. Before the award ceremony be- gins, the Sea Cadet unit pre- sents colors which shows pride in our nation. The Navy, Ma- rine Corps, Coast Guard, and sponsors are represented at the event to show respect for their contributions to America and the Navy League. Without the generosity of the sponsors, the $750.00 valued dinner tables they were. Guests were served wines. At the end of the night, those who attended honored the 200 th Anniversary of the War of 1812 and were enter- tained by the aircraft display and live band. Very Respectfully Joshua Brewster MIDN 4/C, USMCR program is for 11 - 19 year olds who are interested in joining the Navy. Before the event starts, students from various public schools get a tour of the air- craft, inside and out of the hanger. The University of On Thursday, 4 October 2012, The Navy League Mem- phis Council hosted Wine Un- der Wings at Wilson Air Center at Memphis International Air- port. This event has been thriv- ing for four continuous years. The Navy League of the United States was established in 1902 by the inspiration of President Theodore Roosevelt. One of the main goals of the organization is to educate American citizens on the importance of a stronger frame for the sea services. Wine Under Wings raises mon- arships to attend colleges such as The University of Memphis, Christian Brothers University, and Ole Miss. With these scholarships, the student will learn about the Navy and gain an education from a respected university. A portion of the money also goes to the support the Sea Cadet program. This Wine Under Wings TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER Ultimately, all his time and dedication lead to a memorable night. At last, the day of the Sea Services Ball arrived. Those attending the Sea Ser- vices Ball arrived in their best of dress ready for the events of the night. The ball flowed smoothly from the ceremony to the dinner. At one point in the ceremony, the guest of honor, Colonel Hobaugh, gave a moti- vational speech. The former astronaut, who has logged over 5,000 flight hours in over 40 different aircraft and 36 days in space, described his experi- ences as a Naval Aviator, Ma- rine Corps Officer, and NASA astronaut. The night ended with dancing, laughter, and overall good morale. In the end, the night was successful and the Midshipmen are antic- i p a t i n g t h e n e x t t i m e w h e r e they can celebrate the birth- days of the United States Navy and Marine Corps. Very Respectfully, Amber Oliver MIDN 4/C, USNR came together for a night of remembrance, dinner, and dancing. Nevertheless, the Sea Services ball must first be planned. Midshipman Schmitz had it all under control. The location would be on one of the top floors of Clark Tower, which is one of the most dis- cernible buildings in Memphis. Also, Midshipman Schmitz had to form a timeline of events for the Sea Services Ball which in- clude a cocktail hour, ceremo- ny, dinner, toasts, and dancing. Fall is important and memorable in its own way. For most people fall represents the holidays, midterms, finals, and of course changing weather. However, fall has a different connotation for the students of the Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps; it is a time of honor and reflection. During the year, around the birthdays of the Navy and Marine Corps, Midshipmen cease their stud- ies to celebrate. On 19 October 2012, Midshipmen, Officer Candidates, and staff alike Sea Services Ball FALL 2012 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS AFROTC - NROTC Flag Football touchdown. The Air Force took advantage of one of the numer- ous timeouts and managed to regroup. With 15 minutes left in the game, the Air Force seemed to break out a secret weapon. It became immediate- ly obvious that they had de- vised a new strategy. With a series of short plays that were effectively executed the Air Force cadets had managed to tie the Navy Midshipmen. The game went in to overtime, and Air Force scored quickly, while also getting the extra two points. Now it was the Navy Midshipmen's turn, they an- swered back with an amazing catch by midshipman McAuley out jumping half of the Air Force cadets. Now all Navy had to do was get the extra two points, and it was on to the sec- ond overtime. Everyone was anxious and nervous for the outcome of the next play, the quarterback MIDN 1/C Dra- peau made a pass to MIDN 4/C Johnson on an out route to the sidelines that was a dive away from a completion. The in- complete pass ended the game and the Midshipmen's chance for redemption, but they walked off the field with their heads held high and looking forward to another rematch. Very Respectfully, Matthew Johnson MIDN 4/C, USNR provement. Naval ROTC pro- ceeded to score another two touchdowns, ending the half at 21 - 7. Morale was high as the midshipmen took a quick water break. The team's coach, Gun- nery Sergeant Ward, provided the team with a few quick words of wisdom and a couple of strategies. The water boys, MIDN 3/C Huetson and MIDN 4/C Mckinney, were diligent in getting water distributed to the barely winded Midshipmen. With the sound of a whistle, the players were called back out to the field. The game was at an obvious stalemate for a few minutes as each side would rush the field and get gradually closer to scoring the next a flag football matchup between Navy and Air Force started and before the first snap, you could see that tensions were high with Air Force looking to keep their winning streak alive. Meanwhile, the Navy midship- men were in search of revenge Navy came out strong scoring a touchdown within the first two minutes. The Air Force ca- dets soon got their act together and retaliated. With the score tied up, MIDN 1/C Drapeau gave the team a quick pep talk. Those who were on the side- lines will never know what words of inspiration were re- layed to the team that day, but there was a noticeable im- TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER obstacles and motivating oth- ers. To end the race, everyone scaled one last hill and took a running start to a slip and slide all the way down to the bottom in the last pool of muddy wa- ter, before taking off and leap- ing over a line of fire to the fin- ish line. Together as a group at last, it was time for a group photo to show off just how dirty they got; the team also took photos with other race participants. Overall the race was a fun event at no cost to the Midshipmen who had a good taste of the spotlight as the only openly military team at the time and represented themselves appropriately. The Midshipmen are eager to run more races in the mud in their boots and utilities in order to get dirty for a great cause. Very respectfully, Katherine Townsend Midshipman 2/C , USMCR to take the lead in their wave and set the pace for everyone to follow. As the starting horn sounded, they took off and led the way through the first few obstacles before breaking off into two - man teams for the du- ration of the race. These obsta- cles included mountains of mud, tubes submerged in wa- ter, and high walls to climb over. The weather was very warm that day, making these three miles of having water in their trousers and mud caked to their boots a true physical challenge. Since they were not running for time, a few Midship- men chose to take their time, helping others overcome On 3 November 2012 the Mud Crusade came to Millington, Tennessee and 14 University of Memphis Naval ROTC Midshipmen and 2 ME- CEPs chose to get dirty and i t y : T h e S e m p e r F i F u n d . Shortly before the race began, the DJ and race announcer asked the Midshipmen to join them on stage and showed their support to our military service members, especially those who are serving overseas and their appreciation for the their country. This proved to be a very humbling experience for our Midshipmen who were still on the road to becoming part of the active service, but it showed them that the commu- nity views them as an exten- sion of the active duty forces. Around noon the Naval ROTC team would line up at the start- ing line in boots and utilities ready to challenge their prow- greatest obstacles: water and mud. Inspired by the acknowl- edgment they received mo- ments before, the team chose MUD Crusade FALL 2012 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS Veterans Day was given by an Air Force tion was directed to the Prison- ers of War / Missing in Action table. Placed around the table were covers from each branch of the military with their re- spective service member stand- ing behind the cover. In a strong voice the Master of Cer- e m o n i e s b e g a n t o e x p l a i n t h e contents of the table: who have served and those cur- rently serving the uniformed services of the United States are ever mindful that the sweetness of enduring peace has always been tainted by the bitterness of personal sacrifice. We are compelled to never for- get that while we enjoy our dai- ly pleasures, there are others who have endured and may still be enduring the agonies of pain, deprivation, and intern- ment. which is about 1.8 miles in dis- tance. After the short inspiring run each branch circled back to do a final pass by the fountain in the middle of campus. When the ROTC units passed by the fountain, Staff Sergeant Shaw and a representative from each of the ROTC Units saluted. This was the peak of inspira- tion and motivation of the run. It symbolized the pride and re- spect that each branch of the military has for our veterans. Shortly after the motiva- tional run at 0700, each ROTC unit fell into for- mation at the University Center for the Veterans Day ceremony. After the greeting and invocation Veterans Day is a very important day for many Ameri- cans, but for members of the Reserve Officers Training Corps, it is perhaps one of the most important days. For ROTC members this is the day that they not only thank veter- ans who have served, but also remember those who have gone before them and have giv- en the ultimate sacrifice for justice, freedom, and this great nation. The University of Mem- phis ROTC units honored this memorable day with a motiva- tional run and ceremony. On the early morning of 12 November 2012 at 0600 the Naval, Air force, and Army ROTC units mobilized into a formation at The University of Soon after formation, the moti- vational run kicked off. Each branch ran in their formations with their respective flag flying high. While running each branch would yell a cadence as loud as they could trying to outperform the branch behind or in front of them for extra motivation. The ROTC units ran a loop around the campus TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER commander that all of our com- rades will soon be back within our ranks. Let us remember and never forget their sacrifices. May God forever watch over them and pro- Those words laid heavy on the hearts of everyone in the room. When the Master of Ceremony them and protect them and their standing around the covers salut- ed. Showing respect for those lost and missing in action. After the contents of the table were ex- plained cadets of Air Force ROTC folded an American Flag. One ca- det then placed the folded flag at the end of the table for the hon- ored memory of the men and wom- en missing in action. In the conclusion of the cer- e m o n y Taps was played. As this song was played over the speakers, each branch stood at attention proudly honoring the veterans who have given selfless service to this nation. Also, they honored those who gave the ultimate sacrifice for this great nation and for the ulti- mate goal of liberty and justice for all. Very Respectfully, Matthew Huetson Midshipmen 3/C, USNR Before we begin our activities this morning, we will pause to rec- ognize our POW's and MIA's. We call your attention to this small ta- ble, which occupies a place of digni- ty and honor near the head table. It is set for one, symbolizing the fact that members of our armed forces are missing from our ranks. They are referred to as POW's and MIA's. We call them comrades. They are unable to be with their loved ones and families today, so we join to- gether to pay our humble tribute to them, and bear witness to their con- tinued absence. This table, set for one, is small, symbolizing the frailty of one prisoner, alone against his or her suppressors. The tablecloth is white, symbolic of the purity of their intentions to respond to their coun- try's call to arms. The single red rose in the vase, signifies the blood they many have shed in sacrifice to ensure the freedom of our beloved United States of America. This rose also reminds us of the family and friends of our missing comrades who keep the faith, while awaiting their return. The yellow ribbon on the vase represents the yellow rib- bons worn on the lapels of the thou- sands who demand with unyielding determination a proper accounting of our comrades who are not among us today. A slice of lemon on the plate reminds us of their bitter fate. The salt sprinkled on the plate re- minds us of the countless fallen tears of families as they wait. The glass is inverted - they cannot toast with us this night. The chair is empty - they are not here. The can- dle is reminiscent of the light of hope which lives in our hearts to il- luminate their way home, away from their captors, to the open arms of a grateful nation. Let us pray to the supreme FALL 2012 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS responsibilities, except school work. There was then a ques- tion and answer session with the nurses and perhaps the most touching speech of the day came from Commander Yach who spoke about her ex- periences with the Marines in the Middle East. After the final speech there was a short break followed by a dinner with the nurses. The symposium wrapped up after, and the Mid- shipmen and Officer Candi- dates departed back to their respective schools. Very Respectfully, Kelsey Hansen MIDN 3/C, USNR speak on the future of the Navy Nurse Corps and her journey as a Navy Nurse. Lieutenant Junior Grade Milan gave the next speech on perseverance and his very difficult path to become a Navy Nurse. Lieuten- ant Commander Gomez is the detailer for new Navy Nurses, so he was the most anticipated among the speakers. Next was Lieutenant Commander Hutchinson who spoke about tion through duty under in- struction. She gave a lot of in- sight on how the Navy gra- ciously pays nurses to get their ceiving normal pay and are full time students with no other The 2012 Marquette Nursing Symposium took place from November 9 th to Novem- ber 11 th . This event is for nurs- ing option Midshipmen to come together and hear from Navy nurses all the way from Ensign to Captain. Over twenty schools were represented at the symposium from all over the country. The University of options included Officer Candi- dates Judy and Yoder and Mid- shipman Menzel, Parrish, Han- sen, and Oliver. The symposi- um kicked off early Saturday morning with some breakfast nursing simulation lab. Cap- tain Martin was the first to Marquette Nursing Symposium TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER LCpl Tim Creager Memorial 5K group along the streets of Millington. Midshipmen lined the course to cheer on all the par- ticipants and ensured a safe route as the runners followed the course. Memphis Runners Track Club timed and recorded the re- sults for the race. As each partici- pant crossed the finish line, he or she was greeted by the Marines and Midshipmen who thanked them for their support. As the racers waited for results, they had the option to compete in the pull - up competition and bid on silent auction items. Before moving on to announce the win- ners for each category, door priz- es were awarded. Then the win- ners received their personalized dog - tag for placing first, second, or third in their age group. After it was all said and done, we had almost 200 participants register for the race which not only made the day successful, but one that will be remembered for many years to come. In addition, to the overwhelming support and suc- cess of this event, this is the first year that some proceeds from the race were donated to the Wound- ed Warrior Regiment in honor of LCpl Creager. Very Respectfully, Dylan Stahlhuth MIDN 3/C, USNR festivities were held. The morn- ing started off with registration, where participants picked up their dri - fit shirt and gift bags filled with an assortment of gifts, coupons, and other good- ies. While waiting on the race to begin, participants enjoyed the sound of our own in - house disc jockey, DJ Spider a.k.a. Ser- geant Shane Kennelly. Five minutes before the race began, an invocation was given by Mid- shipman 1/C Drapeau followed shortly by the National Anthem. A moment of silence was held followed with heartfelt remarks presented by Major Perry in memory of LCpl Creager just before it was time to run. The runners were ushered to the start line where the ten riders from the Patriot Guard lead the On July 1, 2004 in Anbar Province, Iraq, a Marine gave the ultimate sacrifice for his country. Even though he had received a full scholarship to the Citadel, he felt the call to enlist in the United States Marine Corps. While ful- filling his dreams of becoming a Marine, this young man was killed by enemy combatants while conducting combat operations in Iraq at the age of 21. This inspir- ing man is Lance Corporal Timo- thy Creager of Millington, Ten- nessee, and we had the honor of hosting the 7th Annual Lance Corporal Timothy Creager 5K on 10 November 2012. This was the second year that The University of Memphis Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps has hosted the race. The course began on Hornet Avenue, weaved through Navy Road and Dakur Street to finally finish at Memphis Avenue where all the FALL 2012 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS tion 1 st Squad of Navy platoon led by MIDN 2/C Gray won the field meet. This year all four squads had stand out strengths that fueled the fierce competition. In the end only one squad can win and get the trophy. These events are major factors in the deter- mination of who that is for the fall 2012 semester. Fi- nal semester grades will determine the winner of the Super Squad Competition. Very Respectfully, Preston Beazley MIDN 1/C, USMCR Each semester the squads are evaluated in various events to determine who will be the Super Squad winner. The two main events are a drill competition and a field meet. This determines the strengths of the squads as well as the leadership of the squad lead- ers. The squad leaders for Navy platoon were MIDN 2/C Ethan Gray, MIDN 2/C Kevyn Evans, and MIDN 1/C Kourgee Wil- liams. The squad leader for Marine platoon was MIDN 3/C Nathan Sampson. On 13 November 2012 the squads were inspected by the Company Commanding Of- ficer and Executive Officer and then participated in a drill competition. 1 st Squad of Ma- rine platoon led by MIDN 3/C Sampson won the inspection, and 1 st squad of Navy platoon led by MIDN 2/C Gray won the drill evaluation. The squads participated in a field meet on 26 November 2012 consisting of a relay, tug - of - war, and ob- stacle course to test the physi- cal strength and teamwork of the squads. There was also a memory game to test their abil- ity to observe and recall details later. In a very close competi- Super Squad Competition TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER Midshipman 3/C: Parker Grace Hometown: Red Boiling Springs, TN Major: History GPA: 3.76 PFT: 286 Desired MOS: Intelligence Midshipman of the Semester Sponsored by: Navy League Memphis, Navy Federal Credit Union, and Professor David Burchfield FALL 2012 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS The overall winner was MIDN 4/C On 15 November 2012, the Marine Officer Instructor conducted an Endurance Chal- lenge for all Marine Option Midshipmen and MECEPs. Round one consisted of: burpees, single leg wall squats, dying bug, and a 800 meter sprint. Followed by a 5 minute break. Round two consisted of: cadence push - ups, box jumps, crunchy frog, and a 400 meter sprint. Followed by a 5 minute break. Round three consisted of: pull - ups/flexed arm hang, ammo can lifts, crunches, and a 100 yard ammo can run / sprint. The Marine Options and MECEPs enjoyed the physical challenges, but only one could and be crowned the Marine Of- ficer Instructor Endurance Challenge winner and receive a gift certificate to Dicks Sport- ing Goods Store. MOI Endurance Challenge TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER with a touchdown of their own. The score at half was 21 - 7. The second half was a defensive struggle. The Navy line, anchored by Midshipmen Bretschneider, Morrissey, Townsend, and Menzel, ap- plied consistent pressure all day. As a result, two Army drives were cut short by inter- ceptions made by MIDN 1/C Lyons and MIDN 4/C Johnson. The Army was able to score a touchdown late, but the fate of the game had already been sealed. Navy wins 21 - 14. Very Respectfully, Brandon McAuley MIDN 1/C, USMCR And Matthew Ward Gunnery Sergeant, USMC touchdowns on two of their first three possessions. The Army answered with a touch- down, but the Navy, led by quarterback MIDN 1/C Dra- peau and wide receiver MIDN 4/C Johnson, charged back On 30 November 2012, the final flag football game of the season was against the Ar- my. The Navy was looking to rebound from the gut wrench- ing overtime loss to the Air Force cadets. Once again the Navy started off fast scoring AROTC vs. NROTC Flag Football FALL 2012 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS them to miss one PT session of their choosing next semester. This was an extremely challenging and fun event that allowed the students to become more familiar and comfortable in the water while having fun. so taught the students that it pays to be a winner and that if you want something in life, you have to go out and earn it by being the best. We will be conducting the event again this upcoming semester and are looking at in- creasing the level of difficulty and length of the challenge. The students are already look- ing forward to earning more no - PT chits, so that they can sleep in their warm beds while their cold and wet grass. Very Respectfully, Lieutenants Edward May and Michael Jacobs their team. Once the teams com- pleted their five minutes, they briskly walked to the shallow pool where they all had to do one lap around the pool on a kick board. Once the last person in the relay reached the starting/ending point, they walked back to the deep pool and swam a combined 550 yds between the team members. The catch was that they all had to use a different Navy survival stroke. Once this relay event was completed, they hurried back over to the shallow pool where they had to difficult and exhausting exer- cise if you are not condi- tioned for it. This proved to be the major challenge for the teams as some of the teams dropped out of conten- tion for first place. The win- ning team re- ceived a chit that allows On 5 December 2012, during the last physical train- ing day of the semester we had our students participate in a grueling Lieutenant Challenge that consisted of a series of re- lay style Navy related exercises in the pool. We began the challenge at 0600 and had the students run over to the pool in their assigned teams. Once at the pool, they were told to jump in and tread water with a 10lb medicine ball for 5 minutes. The fire teams had the luxury of sharing the load of the ball between the 4 or 5 members of TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER as and plans for the company are sure to bring positive change and a lasting legacy on this great unit. With the coop- eration and support of each member of the company, suc- cess is easily within reach and the rank of Ensign or 2nd Lieu- tenant will be soon within your grasp. My time as the company commander has reminded me role is in leading his/her men and women. To each member of the unit, thank you for your contributions, devotion, and enthusiasm. Without you this company would be nothing. Keep your heads up and those gold bars at the forefront of your mind. Earning a commis- sion in the Navy or Marine Corps is worth every sacrifice asked of you here. Congratula- tions on a semester well done. I look forward to seeing you in the fleet! Semper Fidelis, Shane M. Kennelly Sergeant, USMC not only on the Midshipmen who follow in their footsteps but also me. As they commis- sion this and coming semes- ters, I have full trust and confi- dence in their ability to lead Marines and Sailors in future endeavors. The events this semester have become memories of hard work and fruitful results. Near the beginning of the semester, in order to instill morale and bond, we held a leadership lab at Shelby Farms Park, which included sailing, water bal- loon fights, and a cookout. Our sea ser- vices ball, at the top of Clarke Tower in Memphis, inspired and motivated our students with tradi- tion, food, and danc- ing. A highlight of the semester is the opportunity we had to through a memorial run and ceremony. Whether through these experiences or the fun had as each platoon planned and carried out training evolu- tions or morale events such as bowling or a dinner out on the town, the members of this company have been thoroughly enriched and filled with a sense of what it means to serve our community and country. Looking forward, the incoming Company Command- er, MIDN 1/C Drapeau, and his staff have great aspirations for the spring semester. Their ide- The successes, challeng- es, and lessons learned throughout the Fall 2012 se- mester leaves our company on higher plains with bright out- looks. Beginning the semester with our new student orienta- tion, hosted at Little Rock Air Force Base, gave confidence in the abilities of a new company staff and their handling of de- manding time restrictions, changes in plans, and goal ac- complishment. As the company com- picked a more capable and ex- ceptional staff than the leaders who carried the torch with me, throughout this semester. They accepted their roles with grace and took charge of all areas within their scope of influence. Their hard work and dedica- tion leaves a lasting impression Student Company Commander FALL 2012 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS (Sponsored by the Navy League Memphis and NFCU). Midshipman 3/C Grace was the recipient of this award for his overall outstanding perfor- mance for the fall 2012 semes- ter. In closing the event was wrapped up with warm wel- comes and fair winds and fol- lowing seas. Very Respectfully, Presley Morrissey MIDN 1/C, USNR maraderie and esprit de corps. This semesters Hail and Farewell was held at Central BBQ. We started off the event Enlisted Commissioning Edu- cation Programmers. This in- cluded a number of elimination games, the last standing would win the Hail and Farewell games and earn a fifty dollar ner was Midshipman 4/C Johnson. Following the our unit for those depart- ing to leave behind words of wisdom. This is also the time where the Mid- shipman of the Semester is announced and re- ceives their award pre- sented by the Marine Of- ficer Instructor and Pro- fessor David Burchfield On 6 December 2012, The University of Memphis Naval ROTC Fall 2012 Hail and Farewell ceremony was one of many successful events that we host for our Midshipmen and Staff. A hail and farewell is a Navy and Marine Corps tradi- tional event where we honor those who have are about to depart the unit and thank them for their service. At the same time we welcome those who joined our unit. This celebra- tion builds organizational ca- Hail and Farewell TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER should not be from a lack of CWO5 Mitch Allen Fall 2012 Graduates sion of those alone who have Pericles Second Lieutenant Shane M. Kennelly The University of Memphis Bachelor of Business Administration First Assignment - The Basic School at Quantico, Virginia Ensign Craig R. Allen The University of Memphis Bachelor of Professional Studies in Organizational Leadership and Management First Assignment - Naval Pilot Training, Pensacola, Florida FALL 2012 .COM/NROTC.MEMPHIS or sponsoring awards and scholarships. Social Events : Connect with The University of Memphis and Christian Brothers Univer- sity Naval ROTC Alumni and current students by attending or sponsoring social events such as tailgates, football games, and reunion weekends and participating in Navy and Marine Corps traditional cele- brations and events. Liaison : Maintain a profession- al relationship with the Profes- sor of Naval Science and the assigned support staff. Bricks are available for all naval officers from The Uni- versity of Memphis and Chris- tian Brothers University. To make a donation, please use Mission to promote the fellowship and welfare of The University of Memphis and Christian Broth- ers University Naval ROTC alumni and current Naval ROTC students by providing transition assistance, mentor- ing, financial assistance, social events to all members, and to enhance the visibility of the United States Navy and Marine Corps team and its contribu- tions to the United States. Transition Assistance : Provide a network to link members to- gether as they leave The Uni- versity of Memphis and Chris- tian Brothers University to their first assignment, move between duty stations, exit the Naval Service, transfer from the active to reserve compo- nent, seek civilian employ- ment, or choose to relocate. Mentoring : Offer professional and personal insight to mem- bers by remaining available to Midshipmen or newly commis- sioned officers seeking infor- mation on various career paths, serving as a non - command representative to current military members wanting guidance, or advising members on available military and civilian career opportuni- ties. Financial Assistance : Generate revenue to benefit the AIG and Naval ROTC unit by contrib- uting to scholarship funds or endowment accounts, assisting students with fundraising en- deavors, attending alumni or student run fundraising events, The Alumni Interest Group (AIG) is new to The University of Memphis Naval ROTC unit. The AIG is looking for alumni who are interested in reconnecting with former classmates, helping to mentor current Midshipmen, financial- ly supporting unit events, or providing their experience since receiving their commis- sion. The AIG hopes to bring these individuals together in order to form a bond that will extend well after their years serving in the military have ended. At the beginning of the semester the AIG began gath- ering contact information for all Navy and Marine Corps of- ficers who graduated or com- missioned from The University of Memphis and Christian Brothers University. The AIG is excited to continue with the next step of connecting with all of the shipmates from the past. An AIG kick - off event is being looked at for the upcom- ing spring semester, with hopes of having numerous Uni- versity of Memphis Naval ROTC alumni in attendance. For more information on the AIG, please contact Ma- jor Tracy Perry at taperry2@memphis.edu. Very Respectfully, Timothy J. Strawser Midshipman 1/C, USNR Alumni Interest Group ENS C. R. ALLEN CLASS OF 2012 NAVAL PILOT TRAINING UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS TIGER CRUISE NEWSLET TER Upcoming Events Courageous Leadership: Bold Action in the Face of Adversity 27 January 30 January Mardi Gras Drill Meet 8 February Naval Leadership Weekend 21 February 24 February 6th Annual Beale Street Drill Meet 12 April 13 April 5K for Freedom 30 March Alumni Weekend Date TBD Spring Commissioning Ceremony 10 May Spring Commencement Ceremony 11 May