#http://www.memphis.edu/executivemba/curriculum/
Curriculum - Executive MBA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Executive MBA Welcome Curriculum Admissions Students FAQs News &amp; Updates FCBE Curriculum Admissions How To Apply Information Sessions Students Program Format Faculty Student Profile Tuition &amp; Fees EMA Degree Learning Outcomes News &amp; Updates FAQs Contact Us Home Executive MBA Curriculum Curriculum The Curriculum for the Fall-to-Fall, 41-credit hour Fogelman Executive MBA program is structured to provide executives with a dynamic blend of knowledge, skills, and tools to help them perform in a globally competitive environment. While the program provides rigorous training in all of the functional areas of business, it also stretches students' intellectual and emotional development as executives with wide-ranging, innovative courses. Working in a collaborative, team-oriented environment, students' learning is further enhanced by drawing on the business expertise of their colleagues to solve difficult, real-world business problems. Seminar in Leadership Financial and Managerial Accounting for Managers Economics for Global Executive Information Systems in the Global Enterprise Global Financial Management Global Operations Management Quantitative Tools for Managers Practicum in International Busines s Creativity and Innovation Self Leadership for Executives Strategic Human Resource Management Global Strategic Marketing Corporate Governance and Business Ethics Change Management Executive Financial Management Global Strategic Management Domestic Residential Week Seminar in Leadership Theoretical and practical consideration of leadership in high performing business organizations; detailed analysis of relevant organizational behavior concepts; particular focus on theories of motivation, styles of leadership and emotional intelligence. Change Management Intense, specialized short-course in leading and managing people through change. Students individually prepare significant change projects for their organizations and explore techniques to help manage their people and themselves through the consequences of change. Fall Session Financial and Managerial Accounting for Managers Use of accounting information by an organization’s investors, creditors, regulatory authorities and managers; develop financial and credit analysis skills that are useful in business decision making. Analysis of accounting information that can be used by management to monitor the efficiency, quality, and timeliness of its operations; pricing and costing of products and services, planning, and performance measurement. Global Operations Management A comprehensive course that addresses the acquisition, transformation and distribution of goods and services within the global supply chain. The course will present concepts, tools and strategies used to design and manage operations. Topics covered in the course include, but are not limited to: strategic implications, performance measurement, process management, sourcing, operations design, quality, inventory, logistics, enabling information systems and technology, and global issues. Economics for the Global Executive Concepts and tools of economic theory and their application to business and social issues in the context of a global economy; the decisions of firms, consumers and governments and how their interactions determine market outcomes; market structures, the impact of international trade and currency markets on firms that compete in a global economy. Top of Page Spring Session Global Financial Management Theory and practice of modern financial theory as it is currently practiced in an interdependent global economy by corporate financial managers, financial consultants and managers of financial institutions. Quantitative Tools for Managers Statistical concepts and tools, optimization and simulation techniques useful in understanding, assessing, and controlling operations of business and economic society. Global Strategic Marketing Marketing strategy and in-depth analysis of issues impacting global management of marketing, including: interrelationships among global business environments and strategies, analysis value creating global strategies, competitive intelligence gathering, customer segment analysis, integrated marketing technologies, customer relationship management. Practicum in International Business Specialized, ethnographic study of international business. Students study business, culture, history, tradition and language in a foreign country. They utilize all of their past experiences as business professionals, world travelers and students to create new knowledge of possible business approaches and strategies overseas, and share this knowledge with critical partners in their companies. Top of Page Summer Session Creativity and Innovation Focused analysis and discussion of the imaginative, creative processes used for innovation in business contexts. Theoretical underpinnings of creativity and innovation are explored; special attention is given to environmental effects on individual and group creativity. Creativity knowledge is applied in the areas of product ideation, innovation management, and product design. Self Leadership for Executives Major theories, concepts and principles of self-leadership; application of critical thinking skills to the major theories, concepts and principles of self-leadership with a view toward improving understanding of self-leadership; emphasis is given to understanding each stage of the self-leadership process and to applying critical thinking skills to each element of self-leadership and to the overall logic of self-leadership. Special Topics in Business Administration: Innovation Project Project specific to each student's employer where they analyze, develop and implement a strategy that will either earn $100,000, or more, in sales, or save their company that amount. Each student will work with a faculty member as they develop the project and will present to company representatives, in class, at the end of the following semester. Top of Page Domestic Residential Week Corporate Governance and Business Ethics Detailed analysis of the role of corporate governance in the free enterprise system and capital markets; focused consideration of moral principals, ethical standards, and corporate code of business ethics. Strategic Human Resource Management Theories, research, and practice in managing human resources strategically in business organizations; strategic HRM, legal environment &amp; equal employment opportunity, job analysis &amp; design, planning &amp; recruitment, selection &amp; placement, training &amp; development, performance management, and turnover &amp; retention. Top of Page Fall Session Information Systems in the Global Enterprise Information technology's impact on globalizations of businesses; international IT environment; models and issues in international IS; planning and managing global systems; case studies and applications. Executive Financial Management Advanced capital budgeting theory and practice including different types of cash flow estimation and analysis, equivalent annual annuity, levelized and unlevelized costs, and product pricing. Also covers the theory and practice of a firm’s capital structure, dividend policy, stock repurchasing decisions, and financial planning and forecasting. Global Strategic Management Decisions and actions for development and implementation of long-term plans that determine organizational performance; role of top management decision making in establishing the firm’s mission; focus on strategic analysis of alternative actions; evaluation of environmental conditions, industry characteristics, and organizational capabilities in determining strategy in a global context. Top of Page Program Format Segment 1 Each fall, the Executive MBA Program admits a select cohort of managers and business professionals to enter the Fall-to-Fall, lock-step program. The Executive MBA year begins in mid-August with a week-long residential at Pickwick, TN. In this dynamic, off-site environment, students complete intensive courses in strategic change management, as well as, leadership and team building. Following the residential week, Executive MBA classes meet one day a week during the Fall &amp; Spring semesters on alternating Thursday evenings and Saturdays. Classes are held in the state-of-the-art Executive MBA Seminar room in the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics Building. A typical Saturday class begins at 7:45am and ends at 5:15pm. The fall and spring semesters consist of three courses each semester, two held in-class and one on-line. International Residency At the end of the first year, students participate in a twelve-day residential in a foreign country. The exciting and demanding schedule includes business visits and meetings with senior executives, lectures at foreign universities by distinguished faculty, and meetings with key officials at government agencies and embassies. In addition, students participate in directed ethnographic studies, and other cultural immersion experiences. Previous classes have completed their residencies in Brazil, Argentina, Chile, China, Switzerland, France, Germany, Poland, Turkey, Canada and Mexico. Segment 2 A second one-week residential, held in mid-August, kicks off the final semester in the program. In this residential component, students are challenged to take their personal development to the next level with intense instruction in corporate governance and ethics, as well as human resource management. Following the residential week, Executive MBA classes again meet one day a week on alternating Thursday evenings and Saturdays. Upon completion of all 41 credit hours of course work in the seventeen month program, the Executive MBA student graduates in December with a Master of Business Administration degree. Curriculum Admissions How To Apply Information Sessions Students Program Format Faculty Student Profile Tuition &amp; Fees EMA Degree Learning Outcomes News &amp; Updates FAQs Contact Us The Program Ready to take your career to your next level? Let this program show you how. How To Apply What’s your first step? Find out here! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .