#http://www.memphis.edu/honors/pdfs/wips_program.pdf
The Helen Hardin Honors Program thanks the following faculty members for volunteering their time as evaluators for the 2015 Works in Progress Symposium: Dr. J. Gayle Beck Dr. Gary Bowlin Dr. Joe l Bumgardner Ms . Peggy Callahan Dr. Lorinda Cohoon Dr. Mellon i Cook Dr. Gene Eckstein Ms . Anne Marie Famalette Dr. Ruthbe th Finerman Dr. Kristy Gibbons Ms . Stephanie Haddad Dr. Warre n Haggard Mr. David Horan Dr. Amber Jennings Ms . Tammy Jones Dr. Todd Layne Dr. Yuhua Li Dr. Erno Lindner Dr. Moi ra Logan Dr. Leslie Luebbers Dr. Elizabe th Meisinger Dr. Jim Murphy Dr. Abby Parrill-Baker Ms . Tama ra Parrish Dr. Max Paquette Dr. Phili p Pavlik Dr. Richard Petersen Dr. Angiline Powell Dr. Mary Ransdell Dr. Robin Roach Dr. Esra Roan Dr. Ross Sackett Dr. Karen Smith Dr. Harriet Surprise Dr. Barbara Taller Dr. Denise Winsor 2015 Works In Progress Symposium November 9, 2015 University Center, 3 rd Floor Welcome to the 2015 Works in Progress Symposium The Helen Hardin Honors Program is proud to sponsor the 201 5 Works in Progress Symposium. This annual event provides a means for undergraduate students throughout the University to share their research with the general University community, and recognizes the significant contribution to research by University of M emphis undergraduates. This presenters. Providing undergraduates with the opportunity to engage in scholarly professi onal development. I applaud all the faculty mentors for providing an exceptional learning experience for their students. To the student presenters, I want to offer congratulations for the quality research you have accomplished and for your participation in the Works in Progress Symposium. Very special thanks are due to the faculty evaluators, who kindly provide feedback to the student presenters to better prepare their research projects for submission to the National Conferences on Undergraduate Research, the Tennessee Collegiate Honors Council Conference, and other Progress Symposium have been essential to its success. Welcome to the Works in Progress Symposium. I congratulate all the st udents, faculty, and staff who make this event possible. Sincerely, Melinda Jones, Ph.D. Director Upcoming Undergraduate Research Opportunities: Posters at the Capital Nas h ville, TN February 24, 2016 Student Research Forum University Center Ballroom Spring Semester POPLAR ROOM 1:00 PM McKenzie Franklin, Addison Frazier, & Robert Gitter, Presenters Nutritional Manipulation of Various Cereal Products Dr. Terra Smith , School of Health Studies, Mentor 1:30 PM Dominique Gibbs, Corinna Rankin, & Tara Sexton, Presenters Experimental Foods Research Project Dr. Terra Smith, School of Health Studies, Mentor 2:00 PM Dalia Ayesh, Houstyn Loosier, & Laura Weaver, Presenters Banana Gluten-Free Baked Goods Dr. Terra Smith, School of Health Studies, Mentor 2:30 PM Rachel Aiken, Bryn Chambers, & Kasey Spilman, Presenters Healthy Desserts Dr. Terra Smith, School of Health Studies, Mentor 3:00 PM Naureen Jaber, Allison Maldonado, & Summer Pennington, Presenters The Manipulation of the Carbohydrates, Fats, and Proteins to Reduce Calories and Increase Nutritional Values in Cheesecakes Dr. Terra Smith, School of Health Studies, Mentor 3:30 PM Elizabeth Alexander, Anais Barzowski, & Chris Vichathep, Presenters Using Canned Vegetables Manipulating Nutrient Levels Dr. Terra Smith, School of Health Studies, Mentor 4:00 PM Danielle Davis, Presenter Creating Parent Communities: Qualitative Challenges and Educational Implications Dr. Denise Winsor, Department of Education Psychology and Research, Mentor Works in Progress Symposium Fall 20 15 Presentations BLUFF R OOM 12:00 PM Kasey Chatman, Presenter Preparation of a Solid State Reference Electrode Dr. Erno Lindner, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Mentor 12:30 PM Brandon Keys, Presenter Differences in Ankle Flexion during Gait Dr. John Williams, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Mentor 1:00 PM Deborah Thompson, Presenter Exploring Factors Influencing Restaurant Selections among Vegetarian Customers Dr. Cindy Choi, Wilson School of Hospitality & Resort Management, Mentor 1:30 PM Mamadou Diallo, Presenter Mechanostimulation of cell seeded synthetic scaffolds for improved Biomedical Engineering Dr. Jessica A Jennings, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Mentor 2:00 PM Elysia Masters, Presenter Point of Care Implant Coating to Prevent Wound Infection Dr. Jessica A Jennings, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Mentor 2:30 PM Allison Fetz, Presenter Evaluating Human Neutrophil NETosis upon Interaction with electrospun Tissue Regeneration Dr. Gary L. Bowlin, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Mentor 3:00 PM Patrick Reese, Presenter Comparison of Interfacial Strength of Two Fibrin Adhesives by Application on Mesh for Ventral Onlay Hernia Repair Dr. Esra Roan, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Mentor 3:30 PM Kendall Major, Presenter Genetic Diversity and Population Structure in the Clonal Plant Trillum recurvatum Dr. Jennifer Mandel, Department of Criminal Justice, Mentor 4:00 PM Christina McKinney, Presenter How Movement Communicates Dr. Jill Nee, Department of Theatre and Dance, Ment or SHELBY ROOM 12:00 PM Landon Boone, Presenter Power and Acculturation: Buddhist Monastictism in Rural Mississippi Dr. Ruthbeth Finermann , Department of Anthropology, Mentor 12:30 PM Justin Price, Presenter Perceived Social Support and Just World Be liefs: An Examination of Potential Correlates Dr. Jeffrey Berman, Department of Psychology, Mentor 1:00 PM Sarah Levins, Presenter The Concurrent Validity of Oral Reading fluency Measures in Students with Dyslexia Dr. Beth Meisinger, Department of Psychol ogy, Mentor 1:30 PM Madeline Dormois, Presenter Young Adult Religiously and Spiritually Following Childhood Victimization: Relations with Emotion Regulation and Social Support Dr. Kathryn Howell, Department of Psychology, Mentor 2:00 PM Maggie Renshaw, P resenter Reading and Changes in Vision Dr. Cheryl Bowers, Department of Psychology, Mentor 2:30 PM Maurice Pian IV, Presenter The Effects of Imagined Contact across Disorders Perceived as Neurological or Psychosocial Dr. Jeffrey Berman , Department of Psychology, Mentor 3:00 PM William Jones, Presenter Measurement of the P300 in P & NP Rats Using Subdermal Electrodes Dr. Helen Sable, Department of Psychology, Mentor 3:30 PM Justin Guinn, Presenter Just Take a Few Deep Breaths: The Effects of a Shor t and Simple Deep Breathing Routine Dr. Jeffrey Berman, Department of Psychology, Mentor 4 :00 PM Hunter Rhodes, Presenter The Apostle, the Rock, and the Resurrection Dr. Brad McAdon , Department of English , Mentor MEMPHIS B 12:00 PM Ann a Maranise, Presenter Explorations in Sculptural Material and Con cept Mr. Greely Myatt, Department of Art, Mentor 12:30 PM Allison Lemon, Presenter To Manufacture and Simulate Consent M r. Greely Myatt, Department of Art, Mentor 1:00 PM Ruben Ga rnica, Pr esenter Infoxication M r. Greely Myatt, Department of Art, Mentor 1:30 PM Anqi Wang, Presenter The Globalization of Hospitality Programs: Recruiting International Dr. Eun Kyong Choi, Wilson School of Hospitality &Resort Management, Mentor 2:00 PM Shi H ui Shen, Presenter Travel Motivations of Chinese College Students: A Comparison of Male and Female Dr. Eun Kyong Choi, Wilson School of Hospitality &Resort Management, Mentor 2:30 PM Abigail Gard i ner, Presenter Monte Carlo Simulations of the Chromatographic Behavior of Ring Polymers Compared to Linear Polymers Dr. Yongmei Wang, Department of Chemistry, Mentor 3:00 PM Justin Brooks, Presenter Fall Prevention and Balance Study Dr. Max Paquette, Department of Health and Sport Sciences, Mentor 3:30 PM Emily Ad amic, Presenter Does Exercise Protect the Heart and Kidneys during Uremia? Dr. Chad Touchberry, Department of Health and Sport Sciences, Mentor 4:00 PM Co l l in Dowling, Presenter The Contextual Interference Effect on Swimming Improvement in Children Dr. Yu hua Li, Department of Health and Sport Sciences, Mentor