#http://www.memphis.edu/health/pdfs/healthsummary.pdf
Meningitis and Hepatitis B Immunization Health History Form MMR Immunizations ( Measles, Mumps, and Rubella) 2 immunizations are required Varicella Immunizations (Chicken Pox) 2 immunizations are required Tuberculosis Skin Test Mantoux test The Hepa titis B immunizations are optional . T he i mmunization s are strongly recommended but not required. Under the age of 18 Print and have Parent/Legal Guardian sign in BOTH section 1 and section 2 of the form Form is available at: /health/immunization/HepB _Men.htm The form is also available at new student orientation Over the age of 18 Form is completed electronically during the registration process No documentation is ne eded if: Born before 1957 or Part - Time Student * or Undergraduate student who graduated from a Tennessee high school in May 1999 or after Acceptable MMR Documentation Completed Certificate of Immunization form signed by your health care provider Offi cial immunization card or shot record Military form DD214. Active Military ID must be provided. Official documentation from a prior college or university. Proof of Immunity A positive result for all three components (Measles, Mumps, Rubella) of the MMR Titer Medically Contraindicated Graduate students who graduated from a Tennessee high school in May 1999 or after may send a copy of their high school diploma or documentation of 2 MMR immunizations Students who graduated from a Tennessee high schoo l between May 1979 and May 1999, must provide documentation of ONE MMR immunization given after their graduation date or documentation of 2 MMR immunizations Not able to locate documentation? Have the test for immunity If any component is not positive, BOTH immunizations must be taken again Have both immunizations again the immunizations must be given No documentation is needed if: Born before January 1, 1980 or Part - Time Student * Acceptable Varicella Documentation Completed Certificate of Immunization form signed by your health care provider Official immunization card or shot record Military form DD214. Active Military ID must be provided. Official documentation from a prior college or university. Proof of Immunity A positive re sult for the Varicella Zoster (Chicken Pox) test. Medically Contraindicated Students who graduated from a Tennessee high school between May 1999 and May 2016, must provide documentation of ONE Varicella immunization given after their graduation date or d ocumentation of 2 Varicella immunizations Not able to locate documentation? Have the test for immunity If test result is not positive, BOTH immunizations must be taken again Have both immunizations again the immunizations must be given 30 day s apart, after the student has their first immunization, a temporary 30 day waiver will be given so the student can register for full - time credit hours. Non - U.S. Citizens from countries of high incidence are required to have a TB Skin Test, applied and r ead , before registration Test is available at Student Health Services Mondays, Tuesdays, & Wednesdays International students must bring their I - 20 form and photo identification Permanent residents must bring their permanent resident card Documentatio n of a negative TB Skin Test or negative Chest X - Ray performed in the United States, by a healthcare provider, within six (6 ) months of registration is acceptable. 30 days apart, after the student has their first immunization, a temporary 30 day waiver will be given so the student can register for full - time credit hours. *Undergraduate part - time maximum credit hours 11.9999 Graduate part - time maximum credit hours 8.9999 Law part - time maximum credit hours 11.9999 If full - time status is required, document ation must be provided. The State of Tennessee requires all new students under the age of 22 who will be living in a University of Memphis residence to be immunized against meningococcal disease , on or after their 16th birthday , and provide proof of receiving this immunization befo re moving into their residence. NOTE: If this documentation is not provided, students will not be allowed to move into their residence.