#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT7136001.pdf
- 1 - MANAGEMENT 713 6 EXECUTIVE SEMINAR IN LEADERSHIP Syllabus EMBA 201 5 INSTRUCTOR : Dr. Robert Taylor OFFICE: Business Building #220 OFFICE HOURS: M Th 2 - 5 pm PHONE: 678 - 5311 TEXTS AND READINGS: Required Northouse, Leadership Robbins, E ssentials of Organization Behavior Assorted articles and handouts COURSE OBJECTIVE: To enhance your ability to understand, predict, and control employee behavior in organizations, primarily business organizations, through your ongoing leadership behavio r. We will do this BY providing an overview of the organizational behavior area with an emphasis on leadership techniques , p roviding both the theory an d practical application of leadership and relevant organizational behavior concepts integrating classroo m discussion of theoretical concepts with experiential learning techniques to enhance learning and interest providing opportunities for you to utilize the course concepts in the analysis of group and individual leadership behaviors of yourself and others IMPORTANT: All readings, text and other assignments , indicated on your syllabus are intended to be completed "prior to" coming to class on the day indicated for the assignment. The syllabus is subject to change and you are responsible for all changes anno unced in class. Therefore, it is imperative that you be in attendance for all classes or check with a classmate for assignment changes. NOTE ON THE READINGS : The articles in the Article B Organizat ional Behavior and Leadership. I am providing you with quite a few articles but will hold you accountable for only 1 7 articles from the classics and a few that are more contemporary. These are the ones I want you to use in your experience reports. I definitely want you to read the Schein article on Socialization, and Hoping other articles of your own choosing , alt hough I have designated 10 others that I think are the most fruitful and which I will discuss somewhat in class. Of course I recommend lde The Northouse Leadership book provides very current up - to - date info on the field of Leadership, primarily from a micro perspective, which is the one taken in this class. - 2 - ATTENDANCE POLICY: Although no form al class roll will be taken, you are expected to be here for each class. This should be no problem since you are at an off - campus location. Poor attendance will result in a low grade on the "PARTICIPATION" component of your grade. You obviously can't pa rticipate when called on in class if you are not here. Attendance is particularly important because of the "experiential learning" aspect of this course, where you learn by analyzing classroom, as well as other, experiences. If you aren't here to experie nce a behavior and participate in exercise debriefings, you obviously can't learn from that experience. ASSIGNMENT POLICY: Assignments are due in class on the dates indicated on the schedule. There will be an automatic 10% grade reduction for each clas s day the assignment is late. For grading purposes, the next class day begins the moment the previous class is excused. PLEASE simply staple together all pages of an assignment in the upper left corner of the sheets. Put your name on ALL PAGES in the up per right hand corner next to the page number, which MUST appear on all pages. I DO NOT want any kind of folders around your papers. Always keep a copy of anything given to me in case a paper is lost. IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO HAVE A BACKUP COPY. A SSIGNMENTS AND GRADING: The Seminar in Leadership is intended to be a very practical, applied OB/Leadership cou rse. The assignments and the exam emphasize this applied nature. The exam is intended to ascertain the extent to which you have absorbed, unde rstood, and retained the concepts presented in the readings and/or discussed in class, as well as your ability to utilize the concepts in situational analysis. The written assignments are intended to give you practice in the application of concepts to the analysis of human behavior: your own and that of others, group as well as individual behavior. GRADING COMPONENTS: The grade point computation and conversion is as follows, with no exceptions: A = 92.0 and above; B = 83.0 - 91.9; C = 72.0 - 82.9; D = 65 .0 - 71.9; F = 65 or below 1. Artic le Concept Experience Report 10 points 2. Post Class Experience Report 20 points 3. Class Pa rticipation and Assignments 20 points 4. Final Exam 5 0 points Assignments 1. Article Conce pt Experience (ACE) Repor t I (10 points) You must select at least five (5 ) articles from those provided in your article book and use one or two concepts from each article to analyze your own and others' behaviors. You may sub three concepts from other course readi ngs in place o f three article concepts. Please note the following: a. There should be 5 concepts and 5 related experiences. Less than 5 will reduce your maximum possible grade. - 3 - b. Concepts should be thorough, and gene rally involve a relationship statement: "If A is done , then B occurs". Think in terms of cause effect; behavior consequence; action result. For each concept, list the name of the article and the author. c. Do not to use the same concept twice. d . Experiences should be thoroughly explained, include details, and show some depth of analysis. e. Emphasize your own experience: what you did right (and why) or what you did wrong (and how you can do better). Think: SELF - ANALYSIS f. Use behavioral examp les, not generalities. See the sample ACE provided in this syllabus g. Grading is as follows: 5 well - written/thorough/on target experiences = 95 - 100 5 weakly written/terse/ some off target experiences = 81 - 94 4 well - written/tho rough/on ta rg et experiences = 75 - 80 4 weakly written/terse/some off target experiences = 61 - 74 3 or fewer good experiences = 60 maximum 3 or fewer poorly written experiences = maximum 50 h. Please attach the feedback sheet (at end of syllabus) to y our report. Due Date: Fourth Day of Class Tues day August 1 8 2. Post Class Concept Experience Log (20 points) Your second exper ienc e report must consist of ten (10 ) experiences where you are demonstrating the application of class concepts to your leadership behavior. The c oncepts can be taken from your article readings, as well as from in - class videos , class discussion, and your books . Please note the following: a. Again, emphasize self - application what you are doing to improve your l eadership behavior to improve yourself, your employees or your organization. b. This is where you work in present - time to apply the concepts discussed and learned in class. c. Try to u se concepts and articles not necessarily used in the firs t ACE. Emphasize concepts covered in the class as well as the readings. d. Demonstrate you understand the concept by showing how you were able to improve as a result of that understanding. e. the format for the post class log is different from tha t for the ACE report. You will be provided with a sample of the format for the post class log during class Due Date: Sometime in October to be determined in class 3. Class P articipation and Assignments (20 points) Because of the experie ntial nature of this course, your active participation in exercises, debriefings, analyses and discussions is expected and evaluated. The evaluation will be based primarily on your level of involvement in the class and your demonstrated level of preparati on when coming to class (read this to mean H ave you read the material? And h ave you completed the questionnaires you were asked to complete before class?) - 4 - I will note the quantity of your discussion and, more importantly , the quality mostly to the extent to which you seem to be paying attention to what's going on in class and trying to think about ideas and relate them to your own experience. Please note the following: a. Here's where attendance and class preparation will be reflected in your grade. b. Talking just to be talking without really relating to the topic at hand counts for nothing. Try to stay on target and involved. c. Your experiences and ideas may help facilitate learning. Therefore, they are important. d. Questions are im portant, too. If something is unclear to you, ask about it. Someone else probably is even more confused than you. The only stupid question is the one you fail to ask. e. If you're shy or introverted, here's the time to learn to overcome that tendency. Speaking up gets rewarded here, just as it does in real life, and there's no penalty here for making a mistake. participation in class, come totally unprep ared to discuss our topics, or actively stifle the learning of others. I anticipate none of these t hings will happen. Due Dates: Participation is expected every day . 4 . Final Ex am ( 5 0 points) Your final exam is a n in - class essay exam. I t is comprehensive, covering the entire assigned text , other books and all articles. A sample final exam is included as part of this syllabus. a. There is no procedure for a make - up exam. b. There is no time limit (within reason ) and no page length m aximum c. No footnoting or referencing is required. d. The exam will be discussed thoroughly at the end of the last day of class. The f inal exam will take place on the Saturday followi ng the class which is August 22 - 5 - Sample Article Concept Expe rience Report Article: "Organization Socialization and the Profession of Management" Author: E. Schein Concept #1: Organization socialization involves the learning of organizationally relevant norms, values, and behavior patterns, such as basic organizational goals, preferred means of attaining goals, members' basic role responsibilities. Learning these norms, values and behaviors facilitates the transition into the organization and, ultimately, overall success as an organization member. Expe rience #1 In my first year of graduate school, I learned some of the important rules and norms very quickly. Once, when I questioned the validity of what one stat professor was saying, I got shot down very quickly. I learned that asking "challenging" que stions that made the instructor look stupid was taboo. The harsh look and pointedly sarcastic reply I got told me to be careful. I also learned quickly that missing our 7.30 a.m. "Pro - Seminar in Psychology" was taboo as well. The word got around before the class even began (from upper class students) that this class was considered sacred by the professor who taught it, if for no other reason than the fact that he, too, hated to get up that early. Concept #2: Upending experiences of socialization help to "unfreeze" the neophyte from previously accepted attitudes, norms, and values. They are generally unpleasant experiences that upend one emotionally and, hopefully, lead to greater acceptance of the new norms the organization is promoting. Experience #2: When I was drafted into the Army in June 1971, my first experience with basic training came shortly after my arrival at Fort Jackson, South Carolina, at 2.00 a.m. on a Saturday morning. We were told that we could sleep late the following day, since w e had gotten in so late. Promptly at 5.30 a.m. the next morning, the barracks doors flew open and a screaming first sergeant started telling us "pussies" that we were "in the Army now" and not back home with our mommies. We proceeded to march to the mess for my first taste of Army cooking and then quickly to the barber to get our heads shaved. I learned very quickly to adopt a new set of norms and values, which had been quite foreign to me before that day. - 6 - Article: "Barriers and Gateways to Communicat ions" Author: Rogers and Roethlisberger Concept #3: The communication process is not over until communication completes a full cycle back to the sender. Feedback is essential to clarify and reinforce the commonality of shared information. It is the link between the receiver and the sender that ensures effective communication. Feedback makes possible a two - way process, reversing the sender and receiver roles so that information can be shared, recycled and fine - tuned to avoid ambiguity. Experience #3: On July 1, I assumed responsibility for a new organization. While some of the responsibilities had previously existed in another department and were transferred to me, others were new. In addition, my vision of how these responsibilities fit together was completely different. Over the past several months, I have worked to communicate this vision to my team members and, until recently, believed that I had done so successfully. However, one team member sent me a memo recently, which clearly let m e know that this individual was not "on - board" with what I believed was "our program". In response, I set up a one - on - one meeting with this individual to address his concerns. After this meeting, I felt that we had had a healthy exchange and was comforta ble that he had bought into the team's vision. This was until I received a second memo. This second memo, and the meeting that followed it were a few weeks ago. During this time, I made a more concerted effort to understand the message that this in dividual was sending. I made every effort to be empathic to his concerns. Having made an attempt to analyze where the miscommunication may have occurred in the first meeting, I concluded that it could quite possibly have been due to insufficient fee dback. Subsequent to the second meeting, I summarized, in writing, our conversation, to ensure that we had both had arrived at the same understanding. Now, three weeks after the second meeting, I am encouraged by the positive changes I have noticed in this individual's attitude and performance. - 7 - Sample Final Exam MGMT 713 6 EXECUTIVE SEMINAR IN LEADERSHIP Pretend you are the regional sales manager for Happy Face Frozen Foods (HFFF), a large producer of specialty frozen food entrees and numerous other frozen food items. Your southern region consists of seven districts, all headed by a district sales manager. All of your districts are performing according to your sales projection levels except District IV (Georgia - Florida) which is run by Kate O liver. Kate's sales figures are about 10% below the levels of other nearby districts, in spite of the fact that her area should be one of the better ones, based on demographic analyses and market tests the company has conducted. Last week you talked to Kate and mentioned the sales figures. She said she was doing the best she could (which she reminded you was exactly what you had asked of her when she took over) and didn't think her performance was all that bad. Still, you feel that she doesn't seem to be putting in the effort necessary to get the job done , even though she's young, aggressive, talks a lot, and was a top sales rep before she took over the district just six months ago. You have also talked to several of Kate's eight sales reps, including Terry Sharp, Alonzo Wharton, Kenny Golden and Mike Burrage Although they could not, or would not, give you any specific information, they seemed nervous about discussing Kate's performance and that of the district as a whole. Terry alluded to sexual ha rassment concerns, and mumbled something about women pinching his "buns" at a recent training event. Alonzo kept rambling on about the negative effects of norms involving too much competition within the district. Kenny noted several times that he had inv ited Kate to attend one of his AA meetings with him, but wouldn't say why? All Mike did was complain about the rising cost of table dances and couch dances but wouldn't directly relate them to Kate. They all mentioned Kate's aggressive leadership style b ut were vague and gave no real details, preferring to give it a little more time before saying what was on their minds. You sensed a possible weakness in the relationship Kate was having with her subordinates. that a little more time may be enough to ruin the sales figures for the year and possibly even get you into trouble with the company. Therefore, you would like to figure out what's wrong and take some action as soon as possible. Using the effort - performance - reward - satisfaction m odel discussed in class (as well as any other relevant motivation, communication, leadership , perception, conflict, organizational change, appraisal, rewards, socialization, etc. models, theories and concepts) analyze the possible causes of the performanc e deficiency in Kate and in her sales staff. Also note some of the potential solutions suggested by each particular potential cause (preferably as you go along). Note as well any potential problem areas or process issues (e.g., perception biases, communi cation problems) that you would want to be aware of as you go about interacting with Kate and the others while making your diagnosis of problems. Also, how would you analyze your own behavior as a leader with respect to your part in this district's weak ness? What might you do, based on any models or concepts discussed in class, to improve your personal performance in this matter. Next week you are going to Kate's district sales meeting in Orlando to set in on and observe the meeting. District manage rs meet monthly with their sales reps to discuss issues and disseminate information and you usually visit each on a rotating basis. Fortunately this is the month to attend Kate's meeting (your 'first' time with her "at a meeting" since the first meeting w hen you appointed her six months ago ) and you are looking forward to the opportunity to observe her meeting behaviors with her eight sales representatives. Based on concepts, models, etc. learned in class, what kinds of things might you be looking for in the "group" meeting. - 8 - "Since you are short of cash", you have also planned a little golf game with Mike Cloutier, Ricks Mason, and Ben Benson, three other of Kate's sales reps. Cloutier, being the feeling type that he is, offered to bring along the oth er sales rep, Lanie Jackson, the company ambulance chaser, Bruce Landau, and the company secretary, Pete Moss to serve as caddies. He said they were all real "sweeties" and wouldn't mind helping out. He offered to get you Colleen Listengart, company histo rian, as your caddie, and noted the extra benefit she would offer by carrying her computer along on the golf course and recording everything that was said. You'll be exploring potential problems Kate is having as you play. You're sure at least Ben will t alk to you since he talks all the time anyway about everything. You're hoping they all will give you some information you can use in your analysis. You're also hoping even shows up somewhere near on time, a rare occasion, so that they don't refuse to let you play your round of golf. Remember that HFFF's ultimate success and your future with the company may rest on how well you handle this problem. Good luck! P. S. References to real persons, alive or "missing", and to traits they may posse ss are, of course, purely accidental. - 9 - MANAGEMENT 7135 POST CLASS EXPERIENCE FEEDBACK SHEET NAME: ___________________________________________________________________ EVALUATION AREA RATING COMMENTS Basic Mechanics Are all pages stapled t ogether? Is your name on each page? Are all pages numbered? Have you proofread your paper, to catch obvious typographical mistakes and misspellings? Have you listed the title and author of each concept? Quality of Writing Is your written Engli sh (word choice, sentence structure) at graduate student level? Are your paragraphs structured and linked to one another? Concepts Did you use at least 10 different articles OR five other sources ? Are your concepts complete and in a cause - and - ef fect format? Is each concept an important o r major concept from its source ? Are the concepts thoroughly explained? Experiences Are your experiences thoroughly explained, detailed and comprehensive? Do your experiences explicitly illustrate or re late to the concepts? * Do your experience demonstrate appropriate application of the concepts? OVERALL GRADE = - 10 - MANAGEMENT 713 5 ARTICLE EXPERIENCE REPORT #1 FEEDBACK NAME: ________________________________________________________ ___________ EVALUATION AREA RATING COMMENTS Basic Mechanics * Are all pages stapled together? Is your name on each page? Are all pages numbered? Have you proofread your paper, to catch obvious typographical mistakes and misspellings? Have you listed the title and author of each concept? Quality of Writing Is your written English (word choice, sentence structure) at graduate student level? Are your paragraphs structured and linked to one another? Concepts Did you use at least 5 different articles and other sources? Are your concepts complete and in a cause - and - effect format? Is each concept an important or major concept from its article? Are the concepts thoroughly explained? Experiences Are your experiences thoroughly explained, detailed and compr ehensive? Do your experiences explicitly illustrate or relate to the concepts? OVERALL GRADE = - 11 - S CHEDULE EMBA M ANAGEMENT 7135 A UGUST 14 A UGUST 13, 2019 COMPLETE THE CHAPTER AND ARTICLE READINGS THAT ARE CONSISTENT WITH THE SECTIONS INDICATED IN TH E SCHEDULE BELOW. D ATE T IME T OPIC /A CTIVITIES /R EADINGS /A SSIGNMENTS Aug 15 8:3 0 PM TOPIC: COURSE INTRODUCTION SOCIALIZATION AND ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGE TENNIS BALLS AND TEAM BUILDING 2:00 PM TOPIC : ATTITUDE S, PERCEPTION, ATTRIBUTION, & THE SELF - FULFILLING PROPHECY Aug 16 8:3 0 AM TOPIC: PERSONALITY & THE MBTI COMMUNICATIONS 1:00 TOPIC : GET CAUGHT UP: NO CLASS PERHAPS COMPLETE ACE REPORT Aug 17 8: 3 0 AM TOPIC: COMMUNICAT IONS (CONTINUED) LEADERSHIP AS PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT : ORGANIZATIONAL BEHAVIOR MANAGEMENT (OBM) 1:00 PM TOPIC: PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT (CONT) LEADERSHIP BEGUN Aug 18 8:30 PM TOPIC: LEADERSHIP MODELS CON TINUED 1:00 PM TOPIC LEAD ERSHIP MODELS CONCLUDED Aug 19 8:30 AM TOPIC TEAMBUILDING