#http://www.memphis.edu/honors/graduating/
Graduating - Helen Hardin Honors Progam - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Helen Hardin Honors Progam Admission Benefits Graduating Involvement Forms Courses News Home Helen Hardin Honors Progam Graduating Graduating with Honors Honors certification for graduation is earned by successfully completing at least 25 hours of honors courses and achieving a 3.25 or higher cumulative GPA at the time of graduation. Students may pursue one of two tracks leading to graduation with honors: University Honors or University Honors with Thesis. To attain "University Honors," with transcript/diploma notations, students complete 25 semester hours of honors courses that includes: UNHP 1100 An approved Honors Experience in the junior year An approved Honors Experience in the senior year Achieve a cumulative 3.25 GPA or higher at the time of graduation and make a "B" or better in all honors courses. The highest honor a student can achieve is "University Honors with Thesis," with transcript/diploma notations. To attain this honors designation, students complete 25 semester hours of honors courses that includes: UNHP 1100 An approved Honors Experience in the junior year An honors thesis in the senior year (3 semester hours) Achieve a cumulative 3.25 GPA or higher at the time of graduation and make a "B" or better in all honors courses. Click on the following for the: Thesis Manual Application for the Honors Thesis Academics Approximately 75 classes from a wide variety of disciplines are offered each semester, and most of these are 1000-2000 level courses that satisfy the University's General Education requirements or serve as introductory courses in the major. Honors courses offer an alternative to large lecture courses, and the class size is usually about 20 students. Honors courses at The University of Memphis can be distinguished from regular courses in the expectations and abilities of the students, the role and involvement of the faculty, and the nature of the courses themselves. Honors courses are generally discussion-based classes that emphasize writing, problem-solving, critical and creative thinking, and a certain amount of intellectual risk-taking. Whenever possible, an integrative approach that links various disciplines to a common problem is encouraged. Although honors courses are more challenging than regular courses, most students find that their grades in honors courses are equal to or higher than grades earned in regular courses. To enroll in honors classes, students must be accepted to the program and be classified as honors students in the university's registration system. Apply Online There are many advantages associated with membership in the Helen Hardin Honors Program. Opportunities Learn more about undergraduate research, Phi Kappa Phi Honors Society, Scholarships and Study Abroad. National Student Exchange Find out more about the unique opportunity to study at another NSE institution for up to a calendar year. Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/2/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .