#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/programs/hooks-scholars.php
Hooks Scholars - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections Programs Overview Conferences Lecture Series Research Grants National Book Award Hooks African American Male Initiative (HAAMI) Hooks Graduate Assistants Hooks Scholars Hooks Fellows Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks Programs Hooks Scholars Hooks Scholars Visiting Scholars Program The Hooks Institute hosts scholars and other professionals from across the United States to work for an uninterrupted period of time to complete manuscripts and other projects. Visiting scholars also bring new and refreshing perspectives to the work of the Institute and to the University of Memphis. In addition, published and completed works of visiting scholars promote the work of the Institute to a national audience. July 2011 - July 2012 Shannen Dee Williams, Ph.D. , in African-American and United States history from Rutgers University on May 19, 2013. Dr. Williams is currently revising her dissertation, "Subversive Habits: Black Nuns and the Struggle to Desegregate Catholic America after World War I," into a book manuscript. Her study unearths the hidden history of black sisters in the fight to dismantle racial and gender barriers in the U.S. Catholic Church. When completed, it will be the first historical monograph on black Catholic sisters in twentieth-century America. Dr. Williams is a native of Memphis, TN and the 2000 salutatorian of Craigmont High School. She earned a B.A. from Agnes Scott College in and a M.A. in Afro-American studies from the University of Wisconsin at Madison. 2006-2007 Daphene R. McFerren, J.D. , focused on completing interviews and compiling primary source materials on the Fayette County Movement. In October 2006, McFerren organized a two-day conference attended by persons from across the nation on The Fayette County, Tennessee Civil Rights Movement: How African Americans Changed Themselves, Their Community, and Their Nation by Demanding the Right to Vote. She is from Fayette County, TN, where her parents were nationally recognized Civil Rights activists. Mrs McFerren complete her undergraduate degree at Yale and earned her JD at Harvard. Fall 2005 Clyde Robertson, Ph.D. , the Director of Africana and Multicultural Studies for the New Orleans Public School District, received his doctorate in Africana Studies from Temple University in 1998. Dr. Robertson earned an M.A. in Communications Theory from Howard University in 1982 and a B.A. in Broadcast Management/Mass Communications from Clark University in 1981. He is the recipient of awards and honors, and the author of several publications. Dr. Robertson's work at the Institute involved memorializing the tragedy and aftermath of Katrina through the development of theatrical works. Jason Ogle is a former native of New Orleans and former Chair of the English Department at McDonogh 35 Senior High School in New Orleans. Ogle was a Fulbright Scholar in the summer of 2005 in Barbados, Trinidad, and Tobago. As a Visiting Scholar operating out of Houston, Mr. Ogle was primarily responsible for conducting interviews with high school students on Katrina's impact on their lives. In July 2006, Ogle served as the Director of the ACE (Achievement/Confidence/Excellence) Academy, a Hooks Institute initiative [now called Hooks Youth for Social Change (HYSC)] that focused on assisting high school students in developing strong academic progress in critical reading and analytical thinking skills, in logic/problem-solving, writing and presentations. Baderinwa Ain was the Hooks Institute's Artist-in-Residence. In July 2005, Baderinwa was a Fulbright Scholar in Barbados, Tobago, and Trinidad. Ain was also a member of the Katrina Task Force and worked with Clyde Robertson, Ph.D., to memorialize the tragedy and aftermath of Katrina through the development of theatrical works. Programs Overview Conferences Lecture Series Research Grants National Book Award Hooks African American Male Initiative (HAAMI) Hooks Graduate Assistants Hooks Scholars Hooks Fellows Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .