#http://www.memphis.edu/executivemba/admissions/
How to Apply - Executive MBA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Executive MBA Welcome Curriculum Admissions Students FAQs News &amp; Updates FCBE Curriculum Admissions How To Apply Information Sessions Students Program Format Faculty Student Profile Tuition &amp; Fees EMA Degree Learning Outcomes News &amp; Updates FAQs Contact Us Home Executive MBA Admissions How To Apply Admission Process to the Executive MBA Program is highly selective. Participants must make a serious commitment to the program and have the support of their company and family as they embark on the rigorous program requirements. Candidates for the University of Memphis Executive MBA Program must complete the following in order to be considered for admission: Required : Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university Official transcripts from all academic institutions must be submitted A minimum of five years experience in a managerial or professional position Letter of support from your company. Entrepreneurs and independent professionals should submit letters explaining their individual situation. Click here to download a sample support letter. Two letters of Recommendation * Satisfactory competitive score on the Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) or Graduate Record Examination (GRE) To find out more, visit the Information Sessions page today! Complete the University of Memphis Application for Graduate Admission and submit the $35 application fee. Complete the Executive MBA Application for Admission. Click here to download the application . Essays are listed on page 3 of the application. Possess strong oral and written communication skills Current resume All qualified applicants must participate in a personal interview, which will be scheduled after all other application requirements are completed. We are in the process of seating the next incoming class - Executive MBA Class of 2016. The regular deadline for admission to the Executive MBA Program is July 15, 2015, priority deadline is December 30, 2014. Applicants are highly encouraged to apply early to secure a place in the next incoming class. Classes will begin August 2015 at The University of Memphis - Lambuth Campus, in Jackson, Tennessee, during the annual Executive MBA Residential Week. GMAT Requirement may be waived on a case-by-case basis for individuals who possess all of the following: 10+ years of documented professional experience Individuals holding executive level positions - Sr. Director or above GPA of 3.25 undergraduate or Graduate or Individuals who already hold a graduate degree from an accredited institution Curriculum Admissions How To Apply Information Sessions Students Program Format Faculty Student Profile Tuition &amp; Fees EMA Degree Learning Outcomes News &amp; Updates FAQs Contact Us The Program Ready to take your career to your next level? Let this program show you how. How To Apply What’s your first step? Find out here! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .