#http://www.memphis.edu/health/immunization/hepb_men.php
Hepatitis B - Meningitis - Student Health Center - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Student Health Center About Emergency Immunization Clinics Policies Immunization Documentation Upload Exemption Flu Shots Health Prerequisite Summary Hep B - Meningitis MMR &amp; Varicella TB Skin Test Vaccination Availability Home Student Health Center Immunization Hepatitis B - Meningitis Hepatitis B - Meningitis NOTE: You may upload immunization documentation at Meningitis Immunization Requirement for New Students Living In Any University of Memphis Residence The State of Tennessee requires all new students under the age of 22 who will be living in a University of Memphis residence to be immunized against meningococcal disease on or after their 16th birthday and provide proof of receiving this immunization before moving into their residence. Meningococcal immunizations may be submitted on the Certificate of Immunization Form . If this documentation is not provided before move-in day, students may not be able to move into their residence. Meningococcal disease is a rare but potentially fatal bacterial infection, expressed as either meningitis (infection of the membranes surrounding the brain and spinal cord) or meningococcemia (bacteria in the blood). Meningococcal disease strikes about 3,000 Americans each year and is responsible for about 300 deaths annually. The disease is spread by airborne transmission, primarily by coughing. The disease can onset very quickly and without warning. Rapid intervention and treatment is required to avoid serious illness and/or death. There are five (5) different subtypes (called serogroups) of the bacterium that causes Meningococcal Meningitis. The current vaccine does not stimulate protective antibodies to Serogroups B, but it does protect against the most common strains of the disease, including Serogroups A, C, W, and W-135. The duration of protection is approximately three to five years. The vaccine is very safe and adverse reactions are mild and infrequent, consisting primarily of redness and pain at the site of the injection lasting up to two days. Hepatitis B – Meningitis Immunization Health History Form. The State of Tennessee mandates that The University of Memphis provide information concerning the Hepatitis B infection to all students entering The University of Memphis for the first time. The law does not require that you receive the Hepatitis B immunization for enrollment. The Meningitis vaccine is not required but is strongly recommended for students living off-campus . Student Health Center urges students to be immunized. Students must complete the Hepatitis B - Meningitis Immunization Health History Form before they can register. This form is embedded in the registration process. Please note that you must meet with your academic advisor before beginning the registration process. If you are under the age of 18, a parent or legal guardian must sign your completed form . Instructions for locating and completing the form: Begin your course registration process. The form will display if the student is 18 years of age or older. The student must read the information provided, answer both questions, and then click on the Submit button. Once the questions are answered and submitted, the student will begin their course selection. If the student is under the age of 18 , a parent or legal guardian is required to sign the Hepatitis B - Meningitis Immunization Health History Form and then return the completed form to Student Health Center. Hint: The free Adobe Acrobat Reader is required to view and print the above form. Completed forms may be mailed to: Student Health Center, 200 Hudson Health Center, Memphis , TN 38152 or faxed to 901.678.3124 or 901.678.1359 . Note: A hold is automatically set to prevent a student's registration until the process is completed. Once completed, the hold automatically removes and the student is clear to register. There is no need to contact Health Services to remove the hold . Click HERE for vaccine availability. Many insurance plans cover the cost of the immunizations. Please contact your medical insurance carrier to determine if the immunizations are covered under your plan. Immunization Documentation Upload Exemption Flu Shots Health Prerequisite Summary Hep B - Meningitis MMR &amp; Varicella TB Skin Test Vaccination Availability Contact Us Main contact information and hours of operation. Family Planning Clinic Service provided by the Memphis and Shelby County Public Health Department. Health Education Resources Useful links to help bump up your health IQ! Upload Immunization Documentation Upload state mandated immunizations documentation to meet certain health requirements. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .