#http://www.memphis.edu/parking/resources/article4.php
Traffic and Parking Rules and Regulations - Parking &amp; Transportation Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parking and Transportation Services Staff Directory Permit &amp; Other Parking Lambuth/Millington Parking Resources Home Parking &amp; Transportation Services Resources Traffic and Parking Rules and Regulations Traffic and Parking Rules and Regulations Article IV - Parking Regulations These regulations will be enforced at all times. If any of these regulations are violated, the operator of the offending vehicle will be issued a citation and the vehicle may be towed. All unattended vehicles will be considered parking. IMPROPER PARKING . Vehicles parked as described below will be issued a citation for Improper Parking. Citation amounts (fines) are set forth in section 1 listed below. In marked Fire Lanes designated by a red painted curb or by signs. Within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant. In driveways, blocking a driveway, at the end of a parking row, in a traffic lane or in a street so as to impede traffic (double parked). In areas designated “No Parking” by signs, yellow painted curb or by yellow striped areas in parking lots. In areas designated “Loading Zones” by signs or markings for a period of fifteen (15) minutes or more. Extended loading periods must be arranged through Parking &amp; Transportation Services. On sidewalks or on grounds (grass or unpaved areas). Outside of a parking space as delineated by white lines. In a manner so as to block a ramp constructed to facilitate the movement of disabled individuals. Opposing traffic on a University street so that leaving the parking space is hazardous. Occupying more than one parking space. PARKING PERMITS . Only vehicles properly displaying The University of Memphis parking permit (designated by a hangtag or bumper sticker, visitor pass or those legally parking at parking meters or in any parking garage may be parked on property owned or leased by The University of Memphis. All other vehicles parked on The University of Memphis controlled property will receive a citation. PRIORITY – Only vehicles displaying current The University of Memphis Parking permits designated by a hangtag or bumper sticker for the current semester may be parked in spaces designated for the use of that permit’s assignment. All other vehicles parked in that area will receive a citation. Vehicles parking in a reserved space will receive a citation. Vehicles parking in a reserved space or in Priority parking lots without proper permits will receive a citation and may be towed. RESERVED - Spaces marked with a name, number or title are reserved for the exclusive use of the person designated. Only vehicles registered to these individuals are authorized to park in these spaces. All other vehicles parked in a reserved space will receive a citation and may be towed. DISABLED – Only vehicles displaying The University of Memphis parking disabled designator and/or State Placard may park in spaces marked as Disabled Spaces. All other vehicles parked in spaces marked as Disabled spaces will receive a citation and may be towed. ON CAMPUS RESIDENT – Only vehicles displaying The University of Memphis resident parking permits for the current semester may be parked in spaces marked as Resident Only. All other vehicles parked in resident spaces will receive a citation. Residency status will be confirmed. PATIENT PARKING – Only vehicles displaying The University of Memphis parking permits for the current semester and a parking pass from the Health Center may park in spaces designated for patient parking. The parking pass is available from the Health Center reception desk. All other vehicles parked in patient parking spaces will receive a citation. PARKING METERS – All vehicles parked in metered spaces will receive a citation for overtime when the display reads, "time expired." Emeriti parking permit holders may park at the meters. Citation for overtime violations may be issued every hour the violation exists. VISITOR – Only visitors may park at parking meters marked “Visitors Only”. Registered vehicles parked at meters marked for “Visitors Only” will receive a citation for parking in a restricted parking area. GARAGE PARKING – Students, faculty, staff and visitors may park in the Innovation or the Zach Curlin Parking Garage without permit access and will be charged an hourly rate or all-day rate. Students, faculty and staff will be charged a fee for permit access. MOTORCYCLE PARKING – Only motor vehicles displaying The University of Memphis motorcycle/bumper sticker including motorcycles, motor bikes, and motor scooters regardless of size may park in spaces designated “Motorcycle Parking” or regularly marked parking spaces. Operating these vehicles on any surface other than designated streets or parking areas is expressly prohibited. These vehicles may park only in designated and/or marked parking spaces. Parking on sidewalks or chaining these vehicles to lampposts and other similar structures is specifically prohibited. « Previous | Next » TigerPark Don’t wait in line…Go online! The Blue Line The Blue Line shuttle at the University of Memphis. Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place. Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .