#http://umwa.memphis.edu/umpolicies/UM1511.htm
UM1511 - Recruitment, Application, and Selection of Faculty - The University of Memphis The University of Memphis Recruitment, Application, and Selection of Faculty POLICIES Issued:&nbsp December 12, 2008 Responsible Official:&nbsp Provost Responsible Office:&nbsp Office of the Provost Policy Statement Policy Statement All actions related to the employment process will be accomplished without regard to race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, status as disabled, Vietnam Era or other covered veteran status and disability. Any person who desires to apply for announced faculty openings at the University of Memphis will be afforded the opportunity to do so. Applications are accepted only for announced openings and they must be submitted via w orkForum during the announcement period. Purpose &nbsp To ensure that external and internal applicants for University faculty position openings are treated fairly and consistently during the recruitment and hiring processes. Procedures Faculty Recruitment Plan Annually, the academic deans submit to the Provost's Office their college/school's faculty recruitment plan for the following academic year. The recruitment plan is a fluid plan that often changes, but is intended to provide a proposed foundation for filling faculty position vacancies. Recruitment Process Initiate Faculty Search - the department submits a request to fill an existing or new faculty position via workForum, the university's electronic recruitment module which is found on the Spectrum portal. The request is electronically routed through all approval queues, with final approval being granted by the Provost. Recruitment Procedure - Every attempt should be made to organize the search for and screening of candidates in order to assure that: the candidate's qualifications meet the specific needs of the department; the candidate is genuinely interested in the position and salary range designated with the understanding that the final salary is set commensurate with experience and qualifications; notice of the vacancy has been circulated in such a way that potential candidates of all races and sexes have had opportunity to apply. For faculty positions, recruiting efforts will include: solicitation through appropriate professional and higher education publications, registries, list serves, etc. contact with female and minority professional associations and organizations; as well as organizations devoted to leadership training; contact with graduate schools with high female and minority enrollments; specific requirements as set forth in Tennessee Board of Regents guidelines P-010. Recruitment Announcements, Required Statements and Distribtuion - All purchased advertising in journals, newspapers, etc. must include the following phrase: "Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer". All other announcements of any kind must include the following statement: "The University of Memphis, a Tennessee Board of Regents Institution, is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. We urge all qualified applicants to apply for this position. Appointment will be based on qualifications as they relate to position requirements without regard to race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age, disablity, or veteran status." There should be broad dissemination of announcements (local, regional, and national as applicable). Lists of institutions with high female/minority enrollments are available in the Affirmative Action Office. A record of the content and distribution of advertising and announcements must be retained by the hiring department. Vacancy announcements, the composition of search committees, and a recruitment plan must be included and updated in workForum for approval by the Equal Employment/Affirmative Action Compliance Office. Position announcements should be sufficiently descriptive so that individuals may determine if they are qualified and wish to apply. This is particularly important since the number of University-funded campus visits for faculty vacancies is limited. Search Information - Adequate time must be allowed to complete the recruiting, application, and selection process. Purchased ads should be placed and announcements distributed far enough in advance to permit adequate time for exposure and candidate submissions by the application deadline. Time should be allowed to consider each application carefully and to determine and record reasons for selection or rejection. Search Committee - the search committee acts in an advisory capacity to the appropriate administrative official. When a search committee is used, the committee will be selected to screen applications and make recommendations to the appropriate administrative official. The unit head may select the chair of the search committee or ask the search committee to select a committee member to serve as the chair. The search committee should include representatives of the department, with representation of women and minorities. The search committee's duties and responsibilities will include the following: assist search committee chair with writing the specific job description and qualifications; select where and when job vacancy announcements will be placed; make telephone calls and/or any other recruitment activities to generate an acceptable pool; review all materials submitted by applicants; evaluate candidates in terms of specified criteria and procedures only; attend all committee meetings; participate in final evaluation of candidates and recommend a pool of applicants to the unit head. The unit head should appoint a person to serve in an administrative capacity for the duration of the search to assist with logistical and committee support issues that may arise. Application Procedures - workForum will electronically accept applications based on the criteria and documentation required by the hiring department; it will receipt and record the disposition of all applications. All applicants will be electronically informed when the position is filled. The records of faculty personnel decisions will be retained within workForum's electronic database for a minimum of three years. Any additional search related materials not included in workForum should also be maintained by the department for a minimum of three years. Selection Procedures - Candidates must be selected only on the basis of the qualifications for the position as described in the job announcement. Selection for the position should not take place until an adequate number of applicants have responded, nor should it take place prior to the announcement or screening date deadline. Salaries (within appropriate range) should be determined on the basis of these qualifications. Hiring departments shall not make a hiring commitment until all approvals within workForum and the complete hiring process have been satisfied. Position Offer - Approval must be granted by the dean and provost before a unit head may make a tentative offer to the candidate. Prior approval by the President must be granted for the reduction of the probationary period before a tentative offer is made. No offer of appointment can be made for positions requiring the Chancellor's approval (any faculty salary of $75,000 or higher or any unit head or higher) until that approval has been confirmed. All offers become official with final approval by the President or Chancellor. Employment Eligibility Verification Form I-9 - All U.S. employers are responsible for completion and retention of the Form I-9 for each individual they hire for employment. This includes citizens and noncitizens. On the form, the employer must verify the employment eligibility and identity documents presented by the employee and record the document information on the Form I-9. Acceptable documents are listed on the back of the form. Form I-9 must be certified by Human Resources within three (3) days of the faculty member's official start date. General New Faculty Orientation - at the beginning of each academic year, new faculty should attend the orientation conducted by the office of the Provost. In addition, new faculty members should attend one of several benefits orientation/enrollment sessions conducted by the Department of Human Resources. Nepotism - The State law is designed to prevent occurrences whereby relatives who are employees of the State are in a direct supervisory line with respect to each other. In order to guard against these practices the State prohibits governmental employees who are relatives from being placed within the same line of supervison where one relative is responsible for supervising the job performance or work activity of another relative A relative is defined as: a parent, foster parent, parent-in-law, child, spouse, brother, foster brother, sister, foster sister, grandparent, grandchild, son-in-law, brother or sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, or other family member who resides in the same household the complete TBR Guideline on Nepotism may be found at: Links Diversity, Equal Employment and Affirmative Action Office TBR Guideline on Nepotism TBR Policy P-010 Faculty Promotions Revision Dates &nbsp UM1511 Rev.2 -- updated December 12, 2008 UM1511 Rev.1 -- updated November 5, 2008 UM1511 - Issued: November 3, 2003 supercedes policy number 2B:02:00A Subject Areas: Academic Finance General Human Resources Information Technology Student Affairs &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp