#http://www.memphis.edu/health/immunization/mmr.php
- Student Health Center - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Student Health Center About Emergency Immunization Clinics Policies Immunization Documentation Upload Exemption Flu Shots Health Prerequisite Summary Hep B - Meningitis MMR &amp; Varicella TB Skin Test Vaccination Availability Home Student Health Center Immunization MMR &amp; Varicella NOTE: You may upload immunization documentation at Immunizations Required Under Tennessee State Law All students registering as full-time students at the University of Memphis must proof of immunizations. Documentation of 2 MMR immunizations or proof of immunity for Measles, Mumps, and Rubella and documentation of 2 Varicella immunizations or proof of immunity for Varicella (Chicken Pox) are required. Acceptable documentation and special notes concerning these requirements are listed below. Photocopies and faxed documentation are acceptable as originals cannot be returned. Meningitis Immunization Requirement for New Students Living In Any University of Memphis Residence The State of Tennessee requires all new students under the age of 22 who will be living in a University of Memphis residence to be immunized against meningococcal disease on or after their 16th birthday and provide proof of receiving this immunization before moving into their residence. If this documentation is not provided, students will not be allowed to move into their residence. Acceptable documents are: The Certificate of Immunization form completed and signed by health care provider Certificate of Immunization Form A copy of an official immunization card Shot record from your local Public Health Department Military form DD214 Active Military – ID must be provided Official documentation from a prior college or university showing immunization dates Proof of Immunity A positive result for all three components of the MMR (Measles, Mumps, Rubella) Titer test A positive result for the Varicella Zoster IgG (Chicken Pox) test Or if diagnosed with the disease of Chicken Pox or Shingles, the student must provide documentation from a healthcare provider (i.e. physician, nurse practitioner, etc) confirming when the student had the disease MMR - Special Notes Graduate students who graduated from a Tennessee high school in May 1999 or after may send a copy of their high school diploma or documentation of 2 MMR immunizations Students who graduated from a Tennessee high school between May 1979 and May 1998, must provide documentation of ONE MMR immunization given after their graduation date or documentation of 2 MMR immunizations The following students are not required to provide MMR documentation: If you were born before 1957 Part-time student (If status changes to full-time, documentation must be provided.) Undergraduate student who graduated from a Tennessee high school in May 1999 or thereafter Varicella/Chicken Pox - Special Notes Students who graduated from a Tennessee high school between May 1999 and May 2016, must provide documentation of ONE Varicella immunization given after their graduation date or documentation of 2 Varicella immunizations The following students are not required to provide Varicella documentation: If you were born before January 1, 1980 Part-time student (If status changes to full-time, documentation must be provided.) Meningitis – Special Notes Before moving into their residence, new students under the age of 22 and planning to live in a University of Memphis residence must provide proof of receiving the meningitis immunization on or after their 16th birthday. If this documentation is not provided before move-in day, students may not be able to move into their residence. If documentation is not in English, the student must have the documentation translated into English by an official translator or simply ask their health care provider to complete the Certificate of Immunization Form. When the form is signed by a provider from outside the US, the form must also be stamped with the organizations stamp. Documentation may be uploaded, faxed, mailed or brought to Student Health Services. Upload immunization documents at: Our Mailing Address: Student Health Services 200 Hudson Health Center Memphis, TN 38152 Our fax numbers: 901.678.3124 901.678.1359 Not able to locate MMR or Varicella documentation? Your options are: Have the test for immunity If any component of the MMR Titer test is not positive, BOTH immunizations must be taken again If the Varicella Zoster test is not positive, BOTH immunizations must be taken again Have both immunizations again Because the immunizations must be given 30 days apart, after the student has their first immunization, a temporary 30 day waiver will be given so the student can register for full-time credit hours. Vaccines are available from various organizations located in the Memphis community . View a partial list of immunization locations . Note: Exemptions may be requested if the student has an allergy to a vaccine component, has a valid medical condition which contraindicates receiving the vaccine, or has religious tenets prohibiting vaccinations. When immunizations are medically contraindicated, a physician must provide a signed written statement indicating which immunizations are contraindicated and why the immunizations are contraindicated. The letter may be faxed to our office at 901.678.3124 or 901.678.1359. Religious exemptions may be requested. An original signed and notarized statement, affirmed under penalties of perjury that the vaccination conflicts with the religious tenets and practices of the student must be submitted to Student Health Center. If an exempted student contracts Measles, Mumps, Rubella, or Varicella, or if a Measles, Mumps, Rubella, or Varicella outbreak occurs, it will be the student’s responsibility to remain off campus until a physician gives written permission for the student to return to campus. Immunization Documentation Upload Exemption Flu Shots Health Prerequisite Summary Hep B - Meningitis MMR &amp; Varicella TB Skin Test Vaccination Availability Contact Us Main contact information and hours of operation. Family Planning Clinic Service provided by the Memphis and Shelby County Public Health Department. Health Education Resources Useful links to help bump up your health IQ! Upload Immunization Documentation Upload state mandated immunizations documentation to meet certain health requirements. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .