#http://www.memphis.edu/reslife/contacts/prostaff.php
Professional Staff - Reslife - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Residence Life and Dining Services About Housing Dining News Resources ResNet Child Care Contacts Contact information Meet the Staff Directions Home Reslife Contacts Professional Staff Your ResLife Staff Director [position open] Hall Staff Aretha Milligan Associate Director Residence Life Phone: 901.678.5913 Fax: 901.678.5219 armillgn@memphis.edu Aretha is directly responsible for the daily operations of the Residence Life program and supervises Area Coordinators, Assistant Area Coordinators, and Graduate Assistants. She plans and implements professional and paraprofessional staff training sessions for customer service, staff selection, payroll, emergency procedures, counseling, and maintenance procedures. Aretha attends contractual discipline hearings, and coordinates departmental programming systems. She acts in absentia of the Associate Dean of Students for Residence Life and Dining Services to maintain department operations. Aretha earned her Bachelor of Science in Biology from Maryville University in St. Louis, Missouri. She also earned a Bachelor of Arts in Psychology from the Indiana University of Pennsylvania in Indiana, Pennsylvania and has a Master of Arts in Student of Affairs in Higher Education. Aretha is the advisor for the Residence Hall Association and impacts students by engaging, challenging, and supporting them. She was the 2008 Pyramid Award winner and enjoys reading and listening to music. Amanda Virag Area Coordinator Phone: 901.678.6250 avirag@memphis.edu Amanda is originally from West Alexandria, Ohio and graduated from the University of Dayton with a Bachelor of Science in Adolescent to Young Adult Education with a concentration in English. She received her Master of Science degree in College Student Personnel from the same institution. Amanda is the Area Coordinator for Rawls Hall, Smith Hall, Mynders Hall, South Hall, and the Living Learning Complex. Her primary responsibility is to support and manage the Assistant Area Coordinators as they ensure residents have a safe, comfortable living and study space. The most fulfilling part of Amanda's job is seeing students engage their community and become leaders. Michael Courson Area Coordinator Phone: 901.678.5929 mjcurson@memphis.edu Michael earned his Bachelor of Science degree in Interdisciplinary Studies from Arkansas State University and a Master of Arts in Higher Education from Louisiana State University. Michael supervises the professional staff for Richardson Tower, Carpenter Complex and the Graduate Student and Family Housing. He is also responsible for designing the training program for all the student staff. His primary goal is to prepare staff members to meet residents' needs and concerns. Michael was the 2012 Outstanding Graduate Student at the Louisiana State University. He was also the 2013 Graduate Student of the Year for the Louisiana Association of Housing Officers." Telecia Taylor Area Coordinator of Student Services and Residence Hall Phone: 731.425.7349 Fax: 731.425.7358 ttylor21@memphis.edu Telecia is recent graduate of Salisbury University in Salisbury Maryland with a Bachelor of Science in Information Systems and Psychology and a Master of Post-Secondary Education. She is responsible for the daily operations of Carney-Johnston Residence Hall at the Lambuth Campus. Telecia manages the hall staff, advises student organizations, and oversees events. She takes pride in knowing residents by name and building a rapport with new residents. Telecia believes it is important to be honest and helpful to create a sense of ease for those in a new environment. Telecia enjoys Zumba, traveling and jamming to the smooth sounds of Bruno Mars. Administration Glenda Barton Residence Life Supervisor gbarton@memphis.edu Glenda supervises the office coordinator, office assistants, and student workers. She authors departmental forms, assigns rooms, oversees the computerized assignment/room change processes, and manages student files. Glenda is a housing expert who routinely counsels students on room assignments, adjusting to campus life, and meal plan options. Her duties also include writing and overseeing the distribution of Residence Life correspondence to applicants, residents, other departments, and the wider community. Glenda is a recipient of the University of Memphis Student Services Pyramid Award and the University of Memphis Outstanding Employee Award. Nicholas T. Scull Financial Services Associate nscull@memphis.edu Nicholas graduated from the University of Memphis with a Bachelor of Arts in Economics in 2009. He is responsible for student accounts and performs various financial duties in Residence Life and Dining Services. Nicholas also coordinates accounts receivable and accounts payable for housing and child care charges. Nicholas is a member of the University of Memphis Alumni Association, enjoys anything sports related, preferably Tigers, and was born on Christmas Day. Facilities Eddie Branan Assistant Director of Residence Life Facilities Phone: 901.678.4029 rbranan@memphis.edu Eddie is responsible for planning, coordinating and managing all phases of maintenance, housekeeping, and renovations for all Residence Life facilities. He is the department liaison to Physical Plant and Planning and external contractors. Eddie consults and aids the Director of Residence Life on facilities and maintenance concerns. Eddie spent 30 years with Fred's as head of construction for nine states and opened over 50 stores a year before joining the University of Memphis. Eddie graduated from Northwest Community College in Senatobia, Mississippi with an Associate of Art in Electronics. His hobbies include gardening, and riding his Harley-Davidson motorcycle. Tony Johnson Coordinator, Residence Hall Facilities Phone: 901.678. Fax: 901.678. tjohnsn5@memphis.edu Tony graduated from the University of Arkansas at Monticello in Monticello, AR with Bachelor of Science and has a Master of Arts from Murray State University in Kentucky. Tony is responsible for the planning renovations and preventive maintenance for Residence Life and Dining Services. His duties include assigning work orders, purchasing, and inventory control for general maintenance and housekeeping. Tony coordinates with Physical Plant for major renovation projects, trains and supervises the general maintenance and student staff, and recommends training priorities. Tony also acts in absentia for the Assistant Director of Residence Life Facilities. Tech Support Ann Marie Hall Local Technical Support Provider III Phone: 901.678.5940 annhall@memphis.ed u Ann Marie graduated from the University of Memphis with a Bachelor of Fine Arts in Performance. She directs the operations of the technology for Residence Life and Dining Services, her duties include interacting with Campus IT and outside vendors to keep housing residents connected to the internet on a safe, dependable network. Since coming to Residence Life she has implemented the ResNet Service Center which makes tech support available to all residents. She also installed and maintained the StarRez housing management system that enables online housing applications and maintenance reporting. Ann Marie attends and presents at numerous housing professional and technology seminars to remain knowledgeable in the fast changing field. In her spare time, Ann Marie is involved in local theatre and is Theatre Works board member. Contacts Contact information Meet the Staff Directions Apply for Housing Apply now and secure your place on campus Campus Living Join a Living Learning Community Housing Policy Make sure you know the rules Meet the Staff Who to know and where to go Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .