#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/cas/swrk.php
SWRK Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning SWRK Courses SOCIAL WORK (SWRK) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: SWRK 7060-65. Special Topics in Social Work. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in the class schedule; may be repeated with different topics. PREREQUISITE: SWRK 7021, SWRK 7022, SWRK 7002, SWRK 7003. SWRK 6934 - Child Welfare Policy/Services (3) Historic overview and contemporary application of child welfare policy; problems in policy development; contemporary American child welfare services in both public and private domains. PREREQUISITE: SWRK 2010, 2911. COREQUISITE: SWRK 3920. SWRK 6935 - Child Welfare II (3) Roles and responsibilities of social workers practicing within child welfare system; mastery of practice skills at a range of levels, such as individual, family, and environment designed to develop culturally competent child welfare workers. PREREQUISITE: SWRK 2010, 2911. COREQUISITE: SWRK 3903. SWRK 6937 - School of Social Work (3) This course develops the knowledge and skills necessary for successful and competent social work in public schools; covering the varied roles and functions of school social workers in their practice with diverse groups of students, families, school personnel, and communities. Best practices in assessing, intervening, and evaluating social work practice across all system levels are emphasized. PREREQUISITE: admission to the MSW program or permission of the instructor SWRK 7001 - Skills Prof Pract SWRK (3) The course covers the profession's unique mission, values, roles and typically practice used in the conduct of social work practice. It further examines theories of practice and generalist roles and skills. The course is designed to prepare students for their initial field experience in Field Placement I. The course introduces students to the Practice Wheel as a primary model for serving children and families. PREREQUISITE: Admission to MSW program. SWRK 7002 - Individuals and Families (3) A required foundation course designed to prepare students to apply evidence-based interventions to social work practice with individuals and families. Foundation knowledge and skills are developed in the areas of theory, therapeutic alliance, risk assessment, case formulation, ethical decision-making, critical thinking and evidence-based practice. Particular emphasis is placed on social work practice with culturally diverse, vulnerable and high-risk populations. PREREQUISITE: Admission to MSW program. SWRK 7003 - Groups (3) A required foundation course designed to prepare students to apply evidence-based interventions to social work practice with groups. The course emphasizes mezzo practice skills/ roles, evidence-based theories, problem-solving processes, group dynamics, phases of group development, needed for group work with organizations and community groups. Issues inherent to diversity, at-risk populations and social justice are integrated. PREREQUISITE: SWRK 7001. SWRK 7004 - Cognitive Behavioral Intervent (3) The course is designed to prepare students to apply cognitive and behavioral theory and techniques to social work practice with single and multiple member systems. The course includes the history and evolution of evidence-based cognitive behavioral intervention approaches and includes integration of problem-solving processes that contribute to planned change. PREREQUISITE: SWRK 7002 and SWRK 7003. SWRK 7005 - Assessmnt,Diag,Psychopath (3) Provides students with current information about the assessment and diagnosis of mental disorders utilizing DSM classification system. Students will demonstrate an understanding of the etiology, prevention, assessment and treatment approaches for a number of commonly diagnosed mental health disorders. Students will identity individuals, social and systemic issues effecting individuals with a mental illness. PREREQUISITES: SWRK 7002, 7021, and 7022. SWRK 7006 - Dual Diagnosis (3) The course explores models for the treatment and rehabilitation of individuals with a psychiatric disability complicated by substance abuse issues. Students will demonstrate an understanding of stabilization, recover, and relapse prevention approaches to assist individuals experiencing a combination of chemical dependency and mental illness. Students will compare and contrast program models and treatment interventions. PREREQUISITE: SWRK 7002, SWRK 7021, and SWRK 7022. SWRK 7010 - Violence and the Family (3) An elective course designed to help students develop specialized knowledge and skills for working families who have experienced violence. Particular attention is given to safety planning, crisis intervention, the role of policy on direct practice, specific theories, multi-system interventions, collaborative service delivery and strengths based intervention models. An emphasis will be placed on diverse and at-risk families. SWRK 7011 - Mental Health and Disabilities (3) An elective course designed to integrate specialized knowledge and skills for practice with diverse children experiencing a range of health and mental health concerns. Recognizing that no single definition of child mental health adequately addresses the diverse families, this course seeks to provide practice frameworks that are culturally sensitive, collaborative, strength-promoting and empowering. PREREQUISITES: SWRK 7021, 7022, 7002, 7003, and 7005. SWRK 7013 - Treatment of Trauma (3) An elective course designed to broaden students ability to understand and treat persons exposed to traumatic events. The course examines roles, assessments and intervention strategies for social workers working with clients exposed to specific types of trauma; rape, war, natural disasters. Emphasis is placed on understanding biopsychosocial influences, psychopharmacology, incidence, course, treatment and evidence-based assessment and interventions skills. SWRK 7014 - Brief Intervention (3) An elective course designed to provide students with the knowledge and skills necessary to utilize brief interventions in social work practice. Theory and practice of planned short-term, and crisis interventions including an introduction to motivational interviewing and solution focused brief therapy are addressed. Learners are introduced to methods for improve treatment compliance and increase motivation for change with specific target populations. SWRK 7016 - Adv. Individual Child/Youth (3) The course covers advanced direct practice techniques with children and youth. Techniques include cognitive behavioral therapy and other evidence based techniques. PREREQUISITES: SWRK 7001 & 7002 SWRK 7017 - Adv. Family Child/Youth (3) The course covers prevention and intervention approaches with families of children and youth at an advanced level. Topics include wrap around models of care for children/ youth in mental health, disability, juvenile justice, child welfare, and family violence service systems and integration across systems of care. PREREQUISITES: SWRK 7002 & 7003 SWRK 7018 - Adv. Individual Adults (3) The course covers advanced direct practice with adults. Treatment techniques include cognitive behavioral therapy, motivational interviewing, and other evidence based practices. PREREQUISITES: SWRK 7001 & 7002 SWRK 7019 - Adv. Family Adults (3) The course covers prevention and intervention approaches with families at an advanced level. Topics include integrative and holistic models of care across a range of settings in adult mental health, substance abuse, disabilities, chronic conditions, long term care, violence, and criminal justice. PREREQUISITES: SWRK 7002 & 7003 SWRK 7021 - SW Across the Lifespan (3) Course provides a multidimensional understanding of person and environment relationships. An ecological/ systems framework is paired with a developmental approach to provide an interactional understanding of human behavior. The course examines life span development from conception through older adulthood. Issues of human diversity (i.e. race, ethnicity, class, gender, sexual orientation) will be highlighted. PREREQUISITE: Admission to MSW program. SWRK 7022 - Organizations and Communities (3) A required foundation course designed to prepare students to apply evidence based interventions to social work practice with organizations and communities. The course emphasizes macro practice skills/ roles. The course stresses an eco-systems perspective and looks at social system malfunctions and inequities. The nature and dynamics of social service networks and social service network eco-systems perspective. PREREQUISITE: SWRK 7001. SWRK 7025 - Scientific Methods (3) A required foundation course designed to teach research methods and the elements of evidence based practice. The course focuses on social work practice-focused quantitative and qualitative research knowledge and skills including critical evaluation of empirical literature, basic research methodology including construct operationalization, study design, selection, development, implementation, measurement, specific instruments, data management and data analysis using statistical software. PREREQUISITE: Admission into the MSW program. SWRK 7026 - Evaluative Research (3) A required concentration course designed to teach students hard skills in ethical program evaluation; statistical analysis techniques; and research findings dissemination and application from the micro to the macro levels and throughout diverse areas of practice. PREREQUISITE: SWRK 7025. SWRK 7030 - Social Welfare Policy/Services (3) Examines local, state, national and international policies affecting social work practice; exploring the historical process leading to current welfare policy. Using rational and non-rational theoretical perspectives, it presents policy and service domains and the values and philosophies underlying welfare provision. Students explore NASW policy positions, social welfare policy in other countries and comparative policy. PREREQUISITE: Admission to MSW program. SWRK 7031 - Rural/Urban Poverty (3) This course examines the development and analysis of specific policies that impact rural and urban centers with high concentrations of poverty. Emphasis will be placed on the interaction effects of federal policies regarding crime, education, employment and housing, and federal and state income maintenance programs for the poor. The strengths and weaknesses of various approaches to policy development and analysis will be discussed. PREREQUISITE: Admission to MSW program. SWRK 7032 - Adv. Community Child/Youth (3) The course covers advanced community practice with children and youth. It examines public policies impacting children and youth. It covers the basics of program administration including budgeting and policy implementation in preparation for administrative practice. PREREQUISITES: SWRK 7022 & 7030 SWRK 7033 - Adv. Community Adults (3) The course covers advanced community practice with adults. Students learn policies and administrative practices to serve adults and older adults, explore policy and program implementation programs, learn administration and budgeting basics, understand community practice models, and become prepared to assume leadership positions in social service agencies and organizations. PREREQUISITES: SWRK 7022 & 7030 SWRK 7050 - Advanced Standing Field (1) The advanced standing field course connects generalist curriculum learned in undergraduate social work to the masters-level curriculum at the advanced level. Assignments encourage self-assessment, increase empathy towards populations served, and expose students to core competencies. PREREQUISITE: Admission to the Advanced Standing MSW Program. SWRK 7051 - Field Placement I (3) This course provides opportunities for students to integrate what they are learning in the classroom with practical experience in an agency that provides social work services. The first course prepares students for work as generalist social workers, to help them learn to apply critical thinking skills, to increase their range of social work skills and techniques, to understand the importance of the value base and increase their self-understanding. PREREQUISITE: Admission to MSW program. SWRK 7052 - Field Placement II (3) The first year of field placement is intended to prepare students for work as generalist social workers, to help them learn to apply critical thinking skills, to increase their range of social work skills and techniques, to understand the importance of the value base and ethical framework of the profession of social work, and to increase their self-understanding. Field Placement II builds on the learning foundation that was established in Field Placement I. PREREQUISITE: Field Placement I. SWRK 7053 - Field Placement III (3) The second year is directed toward an area of social work specialization and the development of advanced skills and practice, building on the first year of placement and providing opportunities for more complex application of social work theories, models, values, and ethics. Field Placement III builds on the learning foundation that was established in Field Placement I and II. PREREQUISITE: Field Placement I and II. SWRK 7054 - Field Placement IV (3) The second year is directed toward an area of social work specialization and the development of advanced skills and practice, building on the first year of placement and providing opportunities for more complex application of social work theories, models, values, and ethics. Field Placement IV builds on the learning foundation that was established in Field Placement I, II, and III. PREREQUISITE: Field Placement I, II, and III. SWRK 7055 - Integrative Field Seminar I (3) Course covers preparation for advanced social work practice and preparation for the social work licensure exam. PREREQUISITE: Field Placement II SWRK 7056 - Integrative Field Seminar II (3) Course covers preparation for advanced social work practice and preparation for the social work licensure exam. PREREQUISITE: Field Placement III SWRK 7062 - Play Therapy Methods (3) This course is designed to teach play therapy theory and techniques to graduate students. Students will learn theoretical underpinnings of directive and non-directive play therapy and the techniques by which the theory is practiced. This course is a blended design of face to face instruction and online class meetings. SWRK 7070 - Independent Study (3) Provides an opportunity for directed advanced reading, an advanced field project, and/or research in special areas of social work. Provides in-depth learning opportunites not otherwise available in the regular curriculum. Independent study replaces one elective. PREREQUISITE: SWRK 7021, SWRK 7022, SWRK 7002, SWRK 7003. SWRK 7996 - Thesis (1-6) Thesis provides the opportunity for a student to complete an advanced independent research project during a two-semester sequence. Students will develop and apply research skills and produce a comprehensive paper that will contribute to knowledge in the social work profession. The Master's thesis is a two-semester (6 credit hours) commitment that will be completed during the concentration year. Thesis is not required for completion of the Master's of Social Work program. PREREQUISITE: Successful completion of all foundation coursework with a GPA of 3.3 or higher and approval of a thesis proposal by the thesis committee chair. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .