#http://www.memphis.edu/executivemba/faqs/
FAQs - Executive MBA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Executive MBA Welcome Curriculum Admissions Students FAQs News &amp; Updates FCBE Curriculum Admissions How To Apply Information Sessions Students Program Format Faculty Student Profile Tuition &amp; Fees EMA Degree Learning Outcomes News &amp; Updates FAQs Contact Us Home Executive MBA FAQs Frequently Asked Questions Is a laptop computer required in the EMBA Program? A laptop is not required although we strongly encourage students to have access to one. Most students bring laptops to class and find them to be useful in taking notes and completing in-class assignments. The Fogelman EMBA Program classroom is equipped with internet connections and other state-of-the-art technology that assist the students in learning. How many years of experience should I have? A minimum of five years of experience in a managerial or professional position is required. When does the program start? The program starts each August with the Week in Residency. Students may not enter the program in mid-year. Can I sponsor myself? Yes, you may self-nominate if you would like. However, you will need two letters of recommendation from individuals you have worked for or with over the past five years. What is the minimum GMAT score I must have to be admitted to the EMBA Program? Decisions about admission to the program are made on the basis of a variety of factors considered together. Undergraduate GPA and background, GMAT score, quality and level of work experience, personal statement of interest, letters of recommendation, and the personal interview are all considered for admission to the program. There is not an absolute minimum GMAT score, but a competitive GMAT score for students is 500 and above. Does the EMBA Program accept the GRE for admission in place of the GMAT? Yes, the EMBA Program does accept the GRE. A competitive score on the GRE would be 1000 or above. Is financial aid available? Yes, but you must work through the Financial Aid Office at the University of Memphis. For more information, contact the Financial Aid Office at (901) 678-4825 or or you may log on to for an in-depth guide to financial aid. Is the entire program fee due at the beginning of the program? No, the fee for each semester is paid at the beginning of that semester. There are also several payment plan options available. When will I know if I am accepted into the program? You will be notified of your acceptance into the program approximately one week to ten days after your personal interview. What is the average size of the class? Class sizes range from 15 to 25 students. Do I have to go on the international trip? The International Study Tour is an integral part of the program. If exceptional circumstances exist such that a student is unable to participate in the trip, we will arrange a significant project assignment in its place. Most past and current students agree that the international experience is one of the most valuable parts of the program. Do classes meet during the summer? Yes, there are two classes worth 2 credits each held during the summer. One 2-hour class is on-line and the other 2-hour class is held during the month of July. What grade point average must I have in order to graduate? You must have a 3.0 GPA and no more than 2 C's. What kind of time commitment is required for the EMBA Program? At least 10 to 15 hours a week should be allotted for class, working on assignments, and meeting with team members. Therefore, a student in the EMBA Program must make a serious commitment to the program. Are there any pre-requisites for the EMBA Program? No, there is no pre-requisite course work required. However, you must have a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university. Curriculum Admissions How To Apply Information Sessions Students Program Format Faculty Student Profile Tuition &amp; Fees EMA Degree Learning Outcomes News &amp; Updates FAQs Contact Us The Program Ready to take your career to your next level? Let this program show you how. How To Apply What’s your first step? Find out here! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .