#https://umdrive.memphis.edu/g-training/Remedyforce/Saleforce1mobileapp_remedyforce.pdf
12/15/2014 Brought to you by: umTech & The Center for Teaching & Learning umHelpdesk - BMC Remedyf orce Incident and Service Guide (Mobile App) Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 100 Administration Bldg., Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.8888 Email: umtech@memphis.edu umHelpdesk - BMC Remedyforce Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 1 | Page Table of Contents General Information ............................................................................. 2 Install the Mobile Application ................................................................. 3 Mobile Application Settings on an iPhone or iPad ........................................ 3 Mobile Application Settings on Android ..................................................... 9 Locating Help Resources ...................................................................... 15 Important Links ................................................................................. 15 umHelpdesk - BMC Remedyforce Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 2 | Page General Information Purpose This training material highlights Salesforce1, the Remedyforce Mobile Application ticket ing system, how to create, and manage incident s and service requests. Audience This training material is designed for University staff th at will be entering and managing incident and serv ice requests in BMC Remedyforce using the mobile Application. umHelpdesk - BMC Remedyforce Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 3 | Page Install the Mobile Application Download the Mobile Application Downloading Self Service for mobile devices - Salesforce1 You can download Salesforce1 for mobile devices from the following locations: iPhone or iPad -- Download th e Self Service application from the Apple Store and install it on your mobile device. Android -- Download the Self Service application from Google Play Store and install it on your mobile device. Mobile Application Settings on an iPhone or iPad Logging in on an iPhone or iPad Once the application has been installed on your mobile device, launch the application. 1. Select Log in to Custom D omain to begin using the Salesforce1 Mobile App. umHelpdesk - BMC Remedyforce Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 4 | Page 2. Type in the word Memphis in the blank field , then click on Continue. 3. You will be taken to a login window. Log in with your your UUID and password . The UUID and password is the same one you use for myMemphis Portal and all other campus resources. Click Log In. umHelpdesk - BMC Remedyforce Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 5 | Page 4. Salesforce1 will request permission to: access your basic information, provide access to your data via the web, access and manage your data, perform reque sts on your behalf at any time. (Only click allow for applications you trust. You may revoke access at any time by visiting your settings page. ) - Click allow. 5. Click Get Started to begin. umHelpdesk - BMC Remedyforce Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 6 | Page 6. You can also choose which calendars Salesforce1 will view and use by selecting them from the list, and by clicking on the check marks . click Save. 7. Once your calendars have been chosen, Click on the list icon in the upper left -hand of the screen. This will reveal access to Remedy force Mobile. Scroll down to access incidents and service requests in the Remedyfo rce Mobile Application . umHelpdesk - BMC Remedyforce Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 7 | Page 8. In the Remedyforce Mobile Application you™ ll see incidents and service requests assigned to you. 9. Select an incident or service request to manage , choose by clicking from the display ed list . Select the ticket you wish to manage or view and all of the information and details of that ticket will appear. umHelpdesk - BMC Remedyforce Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 8 | Page 10. From here you can view all of the ticket details , change Client ID, Category, Incident Template, Description, Resolution, Impact, Urgency, Status, Priority, Opened Date, and Department. Clicking on the three small vertical dots will allow you to email, add notes, view responses, action history or create and link tasks or close a ticket . 11. Once you have made the changes , click the check mark in the upper right -hand corner to save your changes when you are d one. umHelpdesk - BMC Remedyforce Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 9 | Page Mobile Application S ettings on Android Logging in on an Android 1. Once the application has been installed on your mobile device, launch the application. Click login. 2. Go to your menu button (note: menu button location varies from model to model. It may be located at the upper right -hand side or lower left portion of the screen.) Select change server. Type . 3. Save configuration. umHelpdesk - BMC Remedyforce Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 10 | Page 4. (1) After selecting the change server option. You will see the option to "Add Connection". Select "Add Connection". In the "Name" field type "Remedy" and below for the URL type this link: . (2) After doing so select "Apply". 5. You will be taken to a login window. Log in with your UUID and password. The UUID and password is the same one you use for myMemphis Portal and all other campus resources. Click Log In. umHelpdesk - BMC Remedyforce Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 11 | Page 6. Salesforce1 will request permission to: access your basic information, provide access to your data via the web, access and manage your data, perform requests on your behalf at any time. (Only click allow for applications you trust. You may revoke access at any time by visiting your settings page.) - Click allow. 7. Click Get Started to begin. umHelpdesk - BMC Remedyforce Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 12 | Page 8. You can also choose which calendars Salesforce1 will view and use by selecting them from the list, by clicking on the check marks. click Save. 9. Once your calendars have been chosen, Click on the list icon in the upper left -hand of the screen. This will reveal access to Remedyforce Mobile. Scroll down to access incidents and service requests in the Remedyforce Mobile Application. umHelpdesk - BMC Remedyforce Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 13 | Page 10. In the Remedyforce Mobile Application you™ll see incidents and service requests assigned to you. 11. Select an incident or service request to manage, choose by clicking from the displayed list. Select the ticket you wish to manage or view and all of the information and details of that ticket will appear. umHelpdesk - BMC Remedyforce Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 14 | Page 12. From here you can view all of the ticket details, change Client ID, Category, Incident Template, Description, Resolution, Impact, Urgency, Status, Priority, Opened Date , and Department. Clicking on the three small vertical dots will allow you to email, add notes, view responses, action history or create and link tasks or close a ticket. 13. Once you have made the changes, click the check mark in the upper right -hand corner to save your changes when you are d one. Click Log out. umHelpdesk - BMC Remedyforce Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 15 | Page Locating Help Resources Submitting a Ticket Login URL: o o After logging in, choose the link Request Help or Services . o Choose Request Help or Services. Call the ITS Service Desk (901 -678 -8888) on a 24x7 basis Call the Service Desk for immediate assistance with login problems or issues with using the Service Desk Request Form. If you do not receive a response from via the Service Desk Request Form after 24 hours, email The Center for Teaching and Learning, umtech@memphis.edu (please provide your Service D esk ticket number for faster assistance). Important Links umTech Œ memphis.edu/umtech/ Helpdesk Œ umhelpdesk.memphis.edu