#http://cotton.memphis.edu/leaders-admission.php
ACSA Cotton Institute Cotton Institute The Program Leaders &amp; Admission Fees &amp; Scholarships Program Application Visa About Memphis, Tennessee Leaders &amp; Admission The program is taught by a consortium of guest faculty members drawn from the cotton industry. Their combined experiences in cotton, international trade and marketing, and trans-cultural training, coupled with their global understanding of business practices, ensure that all aspects of the curriculum are covered fully and expertly with the latest information. Admission The Institute is open to men and women who wish to expand their knowledge of the trade, and to those who wish to enter the cotton industry. All applications are reviewed by members of the Institute Steering Committee prior to acceptance. To enroll, you must be at least 18 years old and proficient in the English language. Enrollment is limited. Acceptances are issued based on the order in which applications are received, if all criteria are met. The following materials must be submitted to be considered for admission : Completed Application Completed and signed Verification of Finances Form (international visa applicants only ) $3,500.00 application fee (non-refundable). This fee is non-refundable and for the 2016 application fee only. It cannot be applied to an application for any other year. No applications will be considered without these materials. Following review and approval by the steering committee, applicants are sent a letter of acceptance and an invoice for tuition payment. Because it can take weeks or months to obtain, apply for your visa promptly. You should apply early to allow ample time to receive mail by post, as any air express charges incurred by the Institute on your behalf will be billed to you. Please be advised that applicants sponsored by or affiliated with any company that appears on any recognized default list or list of unfulfilled awards will not be accepted to attend the ACSA International Cotton Institute. Text Only | Print | Contact Us | Copyright 2016 University of Memphis | Important Notice FedEx Institute of Technology, Suite 228, Memphis, TN 38152-3115 | (901) 678-5000 Site maintained by Conference &amp; Event Services | Last updated: 09/28/2015 11:15 am Visit Conference &amp; Event Services on Facebook