#http://www.memphis.edu/law/current-students/bar-exam-information.php
Bar Exam Information - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Current Students Registrar Course &amp; Class Information Course Catalog Curriculum Registration Calendars Degree Programs Part-Time Program Certificate Programs Records Request Graduation Requirements Academic Regulations Student Advising Bar Exam Information Academic Regulations Student Organizations Student Affairs Student Affairs Overview Academic Success Program Bar Exam Information Bookstore Commencement Counseling Services Information Technology Law School ID Cards Locker Rentals Orientation Parking TN Lawyers Assistance Prog. Student Advising Study Abroad Financial Information Pro Bono Honor Council GA Timesheet Form Home School of Law Current Students Bar Exam Information BAR EXAM INFORMATION On this page, you can find information for the various Bar examinations and deadlines that are applicable to your situation. Please read the information thoroughly, paying special attention to required deadlines and fee information. Various required forms are linked throughout the page for easy download. Character &amp; Fitness In addition to a bar examination, there are character, fitness, and other qualifications for admission to the bar in every U.S. jurisdiction. Applicants are encouraged to determine the requirements for any jurisdiction in which they intend to seek admission by contacting the jurisdiction. Addresses for all relevant agencies are available through the National Conference of Bar Examiners. Multistate Professional Responsibility Exam (MPRE) Test Dates, Deadlines, and Fees: 2015 MPRE Test Dates, Registration Deadlines, and Fees Test Date* Regular Registration Deadline ($80) Late Registration Deadline** ($160) Saturday, March 28, 2015 February 5, 2015 February 12, 2015 Saturday, August 15, 2015 June 25, 2015 July 2, 2015 Saturday, November 7, 2015 September 17, 2015 September 24, 2015 * Saturday Sabbath Observers: If your religious beliefs preclude you from taking the MPRE on a Saturday, then you may apply with LSAC to take the exam on the following Monday. (The November 2015 MPRE exam for Saturday Sabbath Observers will be on the following Tuesday.) To request to take the exam on Monday, you must provide a letter on official stationery from your cleric confirming your affiliation with a recognized religious entity that observes its Sabbath throughout the year on Saturday. The letter must be received by LSAC by the late registration deadline or you will not be allowed to test. ** ADA Accommodations Requests: All ADA accommodations requests must be RECEIVED by the late registration deadline; NO exceptions. You can find additional information about the MPRE here . Tennessee Bar Exam Students wishing to take the Tennessee Bar Exam should consult the Board of Law Examiners of Tennessee and the National Conference of Bar Examiners for information on completing the bar application and preparing for the bar exam. This page contains some general information about the Tennessee Bar exam obtained from these sources. Please note that the Tennessee Board of Law Examiners has a new website, . (1) File a Notice of Intent to take the Bar. In Tennessee, applicants must file a notice of intent to take the bar examination. The Board of Law Examiners uses an electronic application, and application instructions are available here. (2) Complete and submit your bar application. Tennessee applicants must file bar applications with the Tennessee Bar. Your bar application will require a notary. Theresa Winkelmann , Brigitte Boyd , and Sandy Love are all notaries at the law school. They are available to notarize applications for University of Memphis law students at no cost. Please schedule an appointment to meet with a notary and make sure to bring your student ID card for identification purposes. Make sure that you complete the Law Degree or Dean's Certification form and turn it in to Cheryl Edwards, the Administrative Assistant to the Law School Registrar in Room 262 as soon as possible. Disclose any admonitory actions before turning in your application. If you failed to disclose an admonitory action such as an act of academic dishonesty or an arrest before law school or you were involved in an admonitory while in law school, contact David Romantz, Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, as soon as possible. Information about laptop testing versus hand-writing the bar exam is available here. (3) Take the bar exam. The Tennessee Bar exam, a two-day exam, consists of The six-hour Multistate Bar Exam (MBE) Nine (9) Tennessee essay questions, and The Multistate Performance Test (MPE). Copies of past Tennessee essay questions are available here. The following subjects may be tested on the Tennessee bar exam: Business organizations, including agency, partnerships, corporations, and LLCs Civil procedure (Tennessee and federal) Commercial transactions, consisting of Uniform Commercial Code Articles 1 (general provisions), 2 (sales), 3 (negotiable instruments), 6 (bulk transfers),and 9 (secured transactions) Conflicts of law Constitutional law (Tennessee and federal) Contracts, including UCC Article 2 sales Criminal law and procedure Domestic relations or personal status (family law) Evidence Professional responsibility Property, real and personal Remedies and restitution Torts Wills and estates. Important information for the July 2015 Tennessee Bar Exam: Exam Dates: Tuesday, July 28, and Wednesday, July 29, 2015 Filing Deadlines: Filing Deadlines for First Examination: Complete Application and Exam Fee: April 15, 2015 Late Application and Final Deadline: June 10, 2015 Filing Deadlines for Re-examination: Application and Exam Fee: May 15, 2015 Late Application and Final Deadline: June 10, 2015 Exam Sites Other State Bar Exams If you are taking the bar examination in another state, contact information for each state is available here through the National Conference of Bar Examiners. Additional information is also available in the 2015 Edition of the Comprehensive Guide to Bar Admissions Requirements , a joint publication of the National Conference of Bar Examiners and the ABA Section of Legal Education and Admissions to the Bar. Current Students Registrar Course &amp; Class Information Course Catalog Curriculum Registration Calendars Degree Programs Part-Time Program Certificate Programs Records Request Graduation Requirements Academic Regulations Student Advising Bar Exam Information Academic Regulations Student Organizations Student Affairs Student Affairs Overview Academic Success Program Bar Exam Information Bookstore Commencement Counseling Services Information Technology Law School ID Cards Locker Rentals Orientation Parking TN Lawyers Assistance Prog. Student Advising Study Abroad Financial Information Pro Bono Honor Council GA Timesheet Form Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .