#http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/faculty/ferpa/letter.php
Letter of Recommendation - Registrar - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty &amp; Staff Forms Faculty &amp; Staff Faculty &amp; Staff Authorized Signatures FERPA Compliance Scheduling &amp; Term Planning Self Service &amp; Online Aids Home Registrar Faculty &amp; Staff Letter of Recommendation Letter of Recommendation Because a letter of recommendation may include information from the student's academic record, and is itself considered part of the student's academic record, writing a letter of recommendation is not as straightforward as you might think. Key considerations are discussed below, but first review these terms. Terms Personally identifiable information from the student's education record This is non-directory information such as student courses, course schedules, grades, GPA information, etc. Personal knowledge of the student Your observations on such matters as the student's work ethic, punctuality, reliability, creativity, cooperation, etc. This excludes personally identifiable information from the student's education record. Release The student's permission for you to include personally identifiable education record information in the letter. Waiver The student's consent to waive his/her right to ever view your letter. Request for Letter of Recommendation For your convenience, a form for requesting a letter of recommendation has been developed. It contains pertinent student and recipient information sections as well as release and waiver sections. Further discussion references this form. Considerations Ask the student needing a letter to complete the Request for Letter of Recommendation . In guiding the student through the form, consider the following: Confidentiality Flag Does the student have a confidentiality flag set in the Banner system? If Yes , the student must give you permission to write a letter ( by completing the form), whether it will contain personally identifiable information from the student's education record or not. Release of the Student's Education Record Information Is the student willing to have student education record to be included in the letter? Have the student indicate Yes or No in the Release portion of the form. If Yes , he/she should specify what information can be included; your letter may then include the specified information as well as your personal knowledge of the student. If No , your letter may include only your personal knowledge of the student. Waiver of Student Right to Review Letter Since the letter of recommendation becomes part of the student's education record, which under FERPA the student has a right to view, he/she would be able to view the letter in the future. If you don't mind the student's seeing the letter, have the student indicate, "NO. I do NOT waive my right to review a copy of the letter at any time in the future." If you do mind, ask the student to waive his/her right to review by indicating, "YES. I waive my right to review." NOTE : A student’s waiving his/her right to review letters of recommendation on our campus does not apply to a receiving institution. If the student does not waive his/her right to review letters of recommendation at the receiving institution, the letter may be viewed by the student as part of the education record there. Processing the Form Have the student sign and date the form; then make a copy for your records. When you have written the letter, send a copy of it and the student release to the Registrar's Office to be imaged as part of the student's education record. Faculty &amp; Staff Faculty &amp; Staff Authorized Signatures FERPA Compliance Scheduling &amp; Term Planning Self Service &amp; Online Aids Calendars Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams. Notice! Check for alerts and reminders. Contact Us Have questions? Need assistance or information? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .