#http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/vetedben/benefits.php
Programs and Benefits - Registrar - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty &amp; Staff Forms Veterans Ed Benefits Veterans Benefits Responsibilities and Reminders Certification Resources FAQ Notice! Home Registrar Veterans Programs and Benefits Programs and Benefits Finding the GI Bill® That's Right for You (GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information is available at the official U.S. government Web site at .) If you are unsure which GI Bill works best for you, visit the GI Bill website to compare the programs: Scroll to the bottom of the GI Bill home page and click on “Compare the Programs.” Click on the “Comparison Chart between the Post-9/11 and other GI Bills.” Applying for VA Educational Benefits You may apply for VA Educational Benefits online by accessing the VA application through the GI Bill website : Click “Apply for Benefits” Click “Launch VONAPP” Click “I Am a New VONAPP User” Create a VONAPP Account Select the appropriate application from the drop-down menu and complete. Veterans complete 22-1990. CH 33 dependents complete 22-1990E. CH 35 (DEA) dependents complete 22-5490. Once completed, click submit to electronically send your application to the Department of Veterans Affairs Regional Office for processing. If you don't have the capability to apply online, you can call 1-888-GI BILL-1 (1-888-442-4551) to have a form mailed to you. Credit for Prior Military Training/Education JST (Joint Services Transcript) The JST (Joint Services Transcript) is now the official transcript tool for Army, Marine Corps, Navy and Coast Guard personnel. These branches of service have aligned to provide one collaborative transcript program. The JST replaces: The Army American Council on Education Registry Transcript System (AARTS); the Sailor Marine Corps American Council on Education Registry Transcript (SMART); and the Coast Guard Institute (CGI). This standardized transcript is academically accepted and approved by the American Council on Education (ACE). It provides corresponding ACE college credit recommendations allowing institutions to validate and document the recommended college credits for professional military education, training courses and occupational experience. Community College of the Air Force (CCFA) The USAF provides a transcript through the Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) with ACE recommended credit. Contact CCAF and complete its transcript request. DSST/CLEP Examinations (DANTES) Obtain a record of and credit earned by credit by examination via CLEP or DSST. TN Waiver for Dependents of Veterans Killed in Armed Conflict A dependent child whose parent was killed or died as a direct result of injuries received, or has been officially reported as being either a prisoner of war or missing in action while serving honorably as a member of the United States armed forces during a qualifying period of armed conflict, or the spouse of such veteran, may be eligible for a waiver of tuition and required registration or matriculation fees, and may be admitted without cost to any of the institutions of higher education owned, operated, and maintained by the state of Tennessee, if certain age limits, time periods for eligibility, and residency requirements are met. Contact the Veterans Affairs Office in Nashville, TN at 1-800-827-1000 for more information and verification procedures. VA Services/Programs at UofM Our office participates in a variety of VA-sponsored services, including: Chapter 30: Montgomery GI Bill-Active Duty This program provides educational benefits for individuals who entered military service after June 30, 1985. Your basic pay will be reduced $100.00 a month for the first 12 months of your service unless you specifically elect not to participate in this program. The money is nonrefundable. If you participate in this program, the VA requires that you certify your enrollment once a month. You may do this in either of two ways: On the web: Visit the VA's WAVE (Web Automated Verification of Enrollment) site . By phone: Call 1.877.823.2378. Chapter 33: Post-9/11 GI Bill General Information Important Changes in Tuition/Fee Coverage Notice Regarding Federal Funds and Tuition Assistance Yellow Ribbon Program UofM Yellow Ribbon Request Form Chapter 35: Survivors and Dependents Educational Assistance Program If you are the child or spouse of a veteran classified as "totally disabled," you are eligible for the educational assistance program. Chapter 1606: Montgomery GI Bill-Selected Reserve You are eligible for this assistance program if you are a member of the Selected Reserve, including the National Guard, and if you enlisted, reenlisted, or extended your enlistment for 6 years or more in the Selected Reserve after June 30, 1985. If you participate in this program, the VA requires that you certify your enrollment once a month. You may do this in either of two ways: On the web: Visit the VA's WAVE (Web Automated Verification of Enrollment) site . By phone: Call 1.877.823.2378. Chapter 1607: Reserve Educational Assistance Program (REAP) REAP provides educational assistance to Reservists components called or ordered to active duty in response to a war or national emergency. However, Chapter 1607 benefits cannot be used with other VA educational benefits. Vocational Rehabilitation Chapter 31: Vocational Rehabilitation-Veterans with Disabilities To participate in this program you must have a military-related disability or disabilities that the VA has rated as at least 20 percent compensable. Submit these documents to our office: a current Vocational Rehabilitation Authorization UofM Request for Certification Work Study Be sure to familiarize yourself the VA's Work Study Guidelines . Then, complete and submit a VA Application for Work Study Allowance . VA Application for Work Study Allowance form and instructions Tuition Deferment Service members, veterans, and dependents of veterans who are eligible for and receiving VA educational assistance benefits may request that tuition and fees for a semester be deferred until the end of the semester. Contact us for more information. Tutorial Services Tutorial assistance to defray the cost of needed tutoring is available to eligible persons under Chapters 30, 32, 35, and 1606. For those under Chapter 31, payment is charged directly to the VA. The tutoring allowance is a supplement to your monthly educational assistance check and is paid without any entitlement. VA Application and Enrollment Certification for Individualized Tutorial Assistance Veterans Ed Benefits Veterans Benefits Responsibilities and Reminders Certification Resources FAQ Notice! Calendars Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams. Notice! Check for alerts and reminders. Contact Us Have questions? Need assistance or information? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .