#http://www.memphis.edu/cs/people/faculty_pages/vasile-rus.php
Vasile Rus - Computer Science - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Computer Science About Future Students Current Students Research People Contact Hiring People Full-Time Faculty Joint Appointments Part-Time Instructors Staff Postdoctoral Fellows &amp; Researchers Graduate Assistants Industry Advisory Board Retired Faculty Home Computer Science People Vasile Rus Vasile Rus Professor Phone 901.678.5259 Email vrus@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.1506 Office Dunn Hall 323 Office Hours Call for hours Degree: Ph.D., Southern Methodist University Research Interests: Natural language processing Personal Website: Dr. Vasile Rus joined the Department of Computer Science at the University of Memphis in 2004. He is also a member of the Institute for Intelligent Systems at the University of Memphis. Before that, Dr. Rus was an Assistant Professor at Indiana University (2003-2004). Dr. Rus conducts state-of-the-art research and teaching in the area of language and information processing. He has been exploring fundamental topics such as natural language based knowledge representations, semantic similarity, and question answering as well as applications such as intelligent tutoring systems and software defect knowledge management. Dr. Rus has received research awards to support his work from the National Science Foundation, Institute for Education Sciences, Office of Naval Research, and other federal agencies. He has been a Principal Investigator or co-Principal Investigator on awards totaling more than $6.2 million. For his work on automated methods to handle software defect reports in large-scale software development projects, Dr. Rus has been named a Systems Testing Research Fellow of the FedEx Institute of Technology. Dr. Rus has published more than 80 scientific articles in premier peer-reviewed international conferences and journals, as well as book chapters. He has received several best paper awards at international conferences, and all of his Ph.D. students have earned research awards for their work under him. Furthermore, his students have received summer internships at prestigious research labs such as Stanford Research Institute, AT&amp;T Research Labs, Vulcan, and IBM. Among other accomplishments, Dr. Rus is an Associate Editor of the International Journal of Artificial Intelligence Tools and has been coordinating the local chapter of the North American Computational Linguistics Olympiad, which involves working with high-school students and teachers. In 2011, one of the local high-school students made it to Team USA and won a silver and gold medal at the International Linguistics Olympiad. People Full-Time Faculty Joint Appointments Part-Time Instructors Staff Postdoctoral Fellows &amp; Researchers Graduate Assistants Industry Advisory Board Retired Faculty News &amp; Events Weekly colloquium talks and other events Career Opportunities Internship information and job postings for students Degree Programs Information on our degree and certificate programs Courses Recent syllabi for our courses Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/26/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .