#http://www.memphis.edu/executivemba/news/
Media &amp; News - Executive MBA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Executive MBA Welcome Curriculum Admissions Students FAQs News &amp; Updates FCBE Curriculum Admissions How To Apply Information Sessions Students Program Format Faculty Student Profile Tuition &amp; Fees EMA Degree Learning Outcomes News &amp; Updates FAQs Contact Us Home Executive MBA News &amp; Updates News &amp; Updates Newsletters Summer 2015 Fall 2015 Executive MBA Alumni Council Jason Lee Executive Vice President / Chief Financial Officer Orion Federal Credit Union Executive MBA Class of 2013 Jason Lee has over 15 years of professional experience in the financial service industry and has served as the Executive Vice President / Chief Financial Officer for Orion Federal Credit Union for 5 years. There he helps provides overall strategic direction and strategy for the credit union, manages the investment portfolio and financial planning functions, oversees the information systems and technology areas, and is responsible for the strategic projects and electronic services departments. Additionally, he serves on the credit union's Asset Liability Management and Credit Risk Management Committees. Read More Juloy Raymer Chief Executive Officer Willow Enterprises Executive MBA Class of 2014 Juloy Raymer has been in the healthcare field for over twenty years both in the hospital and professional practice setting. Moving from physician practice operations, she joined Methodist Le Bonheur Healthcare as finance manager moving to revenue services director working to secure all reimbursement due the healthcare system from government and managed care payers. After seven years in finance, Juloy made the switch to hospital operations as administrator of the outpatient clinical services division of Methodist Le Bonheur Healthcare running all outpatient clinics for the healthcare system. From Methodist, Juloy moved into the vice president of revenue services role for UT Medical Group (a four hundred provider multi-specialty practice) affiliated with the University of Tennessee medical school. Juloy currently is managing partner and CEO at Willow Enterprises. Willow Enterprises is a full service anesthesia provider practice servicing multiple facilities in Mississippi and Arkansas. Under Juloy’s leadership, she hopes to take Willow Enterprises to the premier provider of the anesthesia suite of services in the Southeast region transforming anesthesia from a necessary expense at the facility level to a value added service line. Read More Levernese Anderson Supply Planner, International Paper Executive MBA Class of 2009 Levernese Anderson is a supply chain professional with more than ten years of experience in supply chain planning and organization. Levernese currently serves as a Supply Planner for International Paper where she manages the production capacity of about 200,000 tons of annual fluff pulp production that is exported all over the globe. Levernese is also certified in Lean/Six Sigma tools and helps to move the organization forward with regard to deliberate/process improvements. Read More Mike Bulthaus Senior Director, Communications ALSAC/St. Jude Children's Research Hospital Executive MBA Class of 2014 Mike Bulthaus is a marketing and communications professional with more than 15 years of experience counseling industry-leading brands in corporate, nonprofit and agency settings. Mike currently serves as Senior Director of Communications for ALSAC, the fundraising and awareness organization of St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. There he is responsible for development of communications strategies and plans to drive St. Jude's brand awareness and fundraising efforts, as well as day-to-day oversight of a 20-plus member communications department comprised of public relations, corporate communications and patient outreach teams. Read More Michele Buring Marketing Principal, Global Installed Solutions FedEx Services Executive MBA Class of 2014 Michele Buring is a digital marketing professional with over 10 years of experience designing and managing digital solutions for manufacturing, services and logistics industries. Michele currently serves as Marketing Principal in Digital Access Marketing at FedEx Services, a leading transportation and logistics provider headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee, where she manages the Global Installed Solutions portfolio and digital strategy. Michele joined FedEx in 2011 as a Sr. Marketing Specialist where she led the successful re-design of automation solutions to reduce costs and generate incremental revenue. Read More Neil Gibson Vice President, Corporate Communications FedEx Services Executive MBA Class of 2002 As the Vice President of Corporate Communications for FedEx Services, Neil Gibson understands the imperative role reputation management and corporate culture play in the strategic success of a company. His scope of responsibility includes defining the role of Communications and providing strategic direction for the development and execution of all aspects of the company's reputation management, employee communications, social media, media relations, crisis management and corporate citizenship. Under his leadership FedEx was ranked 12th on Bloomberg Businessweek magazine's "Civic 50" list of America's Most Community-Minded Companies for 2012. FedEx is consistently ranked on Fortune magazine's list of "Best Companies to Work For" and was ranked 12h on the 2015 list of "World's Most Admired Companies." Read More Roderick Head Sr. Integrated Marketing Specialist iHeartMedia Executive MBA Class of 2012 Roderick Head is a professional marketing strategist and adept business diagnostician with over 21 years of entertainment and media experience. This experience includes Def Jam Records, Elektra Records, ASCAP, BMI, NARM and Impact Magazine in various roles. While a Featured Columnist at Impact, Roderick became known most for penning "Ten Ways to Kill Your Brand: How to Ineffectively Run a Record Label." Read More Jim Horsey Health Systems Collaborations – Mid South Pfizer, Inc. Executive MBA Class of 2012 Jim Horsey is a marketing and sales professional with over 19 years of progressive, accomplishment-laden experience gained across three Fortune 50 companies. His experience represents multiple industry and role perspectives, including account management, sales leadership, operations management, retail management and marketing. Read More Kevin Morgan Director, Hampton Brand Performance Support Hilton Worldwide Executive MBA Class of 2010 Kevin Morgan is a businessman, learner, outdoor enthusiast, and expert burger flipper. Kevin is currently the Director of Hampton Brand Performance Support at Hilton Worldwide. He leads the team that serves Hampton hotel owners and franchisees. Caring for 2,400 major investors with more than 2,050 hotels that represent nearly $7 billion in revenues, Kevin and his team stay pretty busy. Prior to his current role, Kevin was the Director of Brand and Guest Technology, where he worked on development of the long-term technology strategy for Hilton Worldwide's 12 global brands. A major perk of this position was the excuse to unleash his inner gadget geek. Read More Pete Naldoza Manager, Global Marketing FedEx Corporate Services Executive MBA Class of 2012 Pete Naldoza has been in the transportation industry for 21 years having started with Viking Freight in San Jose, CA in 1994 as a delivery driver and currently is responsible for marketing of FedEx's U.S. domestic airfreight and Less-Than-Truckload (LTL) freight product portfolio. Pete and his team of professionals are responsible for ensuring the ultimate customer experience for all freight products within the FedEx portfolio of services. Pete has also held management positions in market research, product development, Cost and Market Analysis. Read More Anne Sparrenberger Vice President, Go to Market FedEx TechConnect / FedEx Services Executive MBA Class of 2012 Since joining FedEx in 1984, Anne has worked in several areas of the company including Solutions, IT, Supply Chain and Customer Service. She is currently the Director of Enterprise Customer Data Services (ECDS) Planning &amp; Engineering in FedEx TechConnect, a subsidiary of FedEx Services. Her division directly enables a key FedEx corporate strategy that allows for the FedEx companies to 'compete collectively while operating independently'. ECDS supports the integration of strategic acquisitions and provides the infrastructure that enables customers to interact and do business across the FedEx companies with a single identity, as well as FedEx's ability to interact with customers based on their ownership hierarchy. With this infrastructure, FedEx is able to ensure the service and offerings to customers are consistent across our independently operated capabilities. Read More Curriculum Admissions How To Apply Information Sessions Students Program Format Faculty Student Profile Tuition &amp; Fees EMA Degree Learning Outcomes News &amp; Updates FAQs Contact Us The Program Ready to take your career to your next level? Let this program show you how. How To Apply What’s your first step? Find out here! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/23/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .