#http://www.memphis.edu/currproc/structure.php
Program Structure - Curricular Procedures Handbook - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Curricular Procedures Handbook Program Structure Course Related Terms Elements of Course Description Home Curricular Procedures Handbook Program Structure PROGRAM STRUCTURE University undergraduate degree requirements are those courses or hours required of every UofM graduate, as well as admissions, Q.P.A., residency, retention, and testing requirements. See the online Undergraduate Catalog for minimum degree requirements and individual program requirements. Each graduate program identifies specific courses or hours, as well as admission, Q.P.A., residency, retention, and testing requirements. See the online Graduate Catalog for minimum degree requirements and individual program requirements. There are no common course requirements for graduate degrees at the University level. Beginning Fall 2004, each institution in the State University and Community College System of the Tennessee Board of Regents shares a common lower-division general education core curriculum of forty-one (41) semester hours for the baccalaureate degrees and the Associate of Arts and the Associate of Science degrees. UNIVERSITY GENERAL EDUCATION PROGRAM: Specific courses within the following subject categories are listed in the current online Undergraduate Catalog in “Graduation from the University” and in specific college degree requirements. Communication 9 hours** Humanities and/or Fine Arts 9 hours (at least one course must be in literature) Social/Behavioral Sciences 6 hours History 6 hours*** Natural Science 8 hours Mathematics 3 hours Total 41 hours Foreign language courses are an additional requirement for the Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) degree. This degree requires proficiency in a foreign language equivalent to completion of two years of college-level work. **Six hours of English Composition and three hours in English oral presentation communication are required. ****Students who have not completed one year of American History in high school must complete 6 credit hours of American History or 3 credit hours of American History plus 3 credit hours of Tennessee History in order to satisfy the History General Education requirement . Students who plan to transfer to University of Tennessee System universities or to out-of-state or private universities should check requirements and take the appropriate courses. College Degree Requirements All courses or hours required of every graduate earning a particular degree through the college include University requirements, though individual programs may be more specific where University requirements permit choices. There must be an identifiable set of requirements that differentiates one degree from another. All course prerequisites and any special admissions, Q.P.A., residency, or retention requirements or special limitations pertaining to academic regulations that are different from or in addition to University requirements must be included in proposals and specified in the online Catalog. Only those requirements specified in the online Catalog are applicable. REQUIREMENTS FOR UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS: There must be an identifiable set of requirements, including a specified sequence of courses, which differentiates this major from others. There must be a major core , comprising a minimum of six to nine semester hours, exclusive of major field courses, which may also be included in the degree requirements. All of those courses or hours (excluding University and college degree requirements, except where specifying electives or choices) required of every graduate with the major must include course prerequisites, any special admission, Q.P.A., residency or retention requirements, special limitations, etc., not included in University or college degree requirements. REQUIREMENTS FOR GRADUATE PROGRAMS: There must be an identifiable set of requirements, including a specified sequence of courses, which differentiates this major from others. Each masters and doctoral program has specific requirements that vary with the academic unit. REQUIREMENTS FOR GRADUATE CERTIFICATE PROGRAMS: There must be an identifiable set of requirements, including a specified sequence of courses, which differentiates this certificate from others. Each certificate program has specific requirements that vary with the academic unit. Concentration Requirements A concentration is an area of specialization within the major. There must be an identifiable set of requirements, including at least nine hours that are different from the course requirements for any other concentration, which differentiates the concentration from others. It is not required that programs include concentrations; however, if this level of specialization is desired, then each must be sufficiently different from the other to justify a separate title. Minor Requirements Minors are not required at the undergraduate level. The minimum number of hours required for a minor is eighteen unless some of the hours in the specialization are included in the student's degree requirements as well. There must be at least nine hours at the upper division level. Minor requirements do not apply to graduate programs. Program Requirements A. University minimum Bachelor's Degree - 120 hours Master's Degree - 30 -36 hours Graduate Certificate - 12-18 hours Doctoral Degree - 72 hours beyond the Bachelor's degree B. College minimum Varies by college C. Major Undergraduate – Varies by program and includes concentration requirements Graduate – Varies by program and includes concentration requirements D. Minor 18 hours UofM Levels of Curricular Approval Instructional Method and Schedule Type TBR Approval Forms Curricular Forms Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .