#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/engr/eece.php
Electrical and Computer Engineering - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Electrical and Computer Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering RUSSELL J. DEATON, PhD Chair Room 206, Engineering Science Building 901.678.2175 CHRYSANTHE PREZA, DSc Coordinator of Graduate Studies Room 208C, Engineering Science Building E-mail: cpreza@memphis.edu I. The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) offers graduate programs leading to the Master of Science degree with a major in Electrical and Computer Engineering (concentrations in Computer Engineering and Electrical Engineering) and a PhD degree with a major in Engineering (concentrations in Computer Engineering and Electrical Engineering). Program objectives are: (1) ability to apply advanced knowledge of mathematics, physical sciences, and engineering principles to the solution of practical engineering problems; (2) meet or exceed the needs and expectations of public and private sector employers for MS graduates; and (3) preparation to pursue additional advanced studies if so desired. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) and the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MS Degree Program A. Admission Requirements The Herff College of Engineering has established uniform admission criteria for all graduate programs. More information can be found on the department website ( ). B. Program Requirements Students pursuing the Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering must take EECE 7001, either EECE 7100 or EECE 7251, and elect to pursue either a computer engineering or an electrical engineering concentration (multiple concentrations are not permitted). A student can count a maximum of 6 hours of credit for EECE 7991 and 7992. Computer Engineering Concentration: 9 hours selected from the following courses: EECE 7012, EECE 7214, EECE 7216, EECE 7217, EECE 7252, EECE 7261, EECE 7262, EECE 7266, EECE 7267, EECE 7268, EECE 7273, EECE 7720, EECE 7740, or approved computer engineering special topics courses. Electrical Engineering Concentration: must take 9 hours selected from the following courses: EECE 7211, EECE 7215, EECE 7230, EECE 7231, EECE 7232, EECE 7233, EECE 7243, EECE 7245, EECE 7253, EECE 7254, EECE 7255, EECE 7521, EECE 7522, EECE 7523, EECE 7524, EECE 7269 or approved electrical engineering special topics courses. Thesis option: 30 semester hours, including a thesis (6 semester hours). An average grade of 3.00 must be maintained in all Electrical and Computer Engineering graduate coursework. NOTE: Students electing to write a thesis should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. No more than 9 semester hours may be taken outside the department. Advisor’s approval is required. At least 21 hours at the 7000 level are required, of which at least 18 hours must be in Electrical and Computer Engineering. Non-thesis option: 33 semester hours. An average grade of 3.00 must be maintained in all Electrical and Computer Engineering graduate coursework. No more than 9 semester hours may be taken outside the department. Advisor’s approval is required. Each student will be required to complete EECE 7993. At least 23 semester hours at the 7000 level required, of which at least 18 hours must be in Electrical and Computer Engineering. All students are required to pass a comprehensive exam during their last semester. C. Retention Requirements All students enrolled in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering are expected to attain high academic achievement in all courses taken. The criteria listed below will be used to determine retention status of students enrolled in the program leading to a Master of Science degree in Electrical Engineering. Students who maintain a cumulative grade point average of 3.00 ("B") or higher will be considered to be in good standing if no more than 7 hours of "C-," "C" or "C+" or lower have been earned. (See item 3 below and grading system here ). Students must maintain a cumulative grade point average of 3.00 at the end of each semester of enrollment in all course work at The University of Memphis, including all Electrical and Computer Engineering course work and all 7000 level course work. Any student not meeting these conditions will be placed on probation by the department. A student will be permitted no more than 7 hours of "C-," "C" or "C+" or lower in graduate courses taken at The University of Memphis. A student will be dismissed at the end of the semester in which a third grade of "C-," "C" or "C+" or lower is earned. Courses applied to the MS degree program requirements must have the advisor’s approval. III. PhD Degree Program See the beginning of the College section for admission, retention, program objectives, and graduation requirements. A. Program Requirements Students are required to take EECE 8001. Students entering the PhD program must complete the PhD Qualifying Examination procedure prior to registering for their fourth semester in the PhD program. Failure to do so may prevent the student from registering for the fourth semester. More information on departmental procedures can be found at . IV. Graduate Certificate Program in Imaging and Signal Processing A. Admission Requirements Same as College and University requirements. The certificate can be pursued concurrently with other graduate programs at the University. Non-degree seeking applicants must submit a brief (1-2 pages) statement that describes educational and work experience in engineering, including their background in imaging and signal processing. Acceptance into the certificate program is not an implied acceptance into any master's degree program. B. Program Requirements Completion of 12 semester hours chosen from four of the following five courses: EECE 6243 Linear Optical Systems EECE 7214 Image Processing EECE 7215 Digital Signal Processing EECE 7217 Multimedia Information Processing EECE 7251 Random Signals and Noise C. Graduate Requirements The student must complete required courses with an average grade of B (3.0) or higher, for a total of 12 credit hours In the semester of graduation, the student must submit an "Apply to Graduate" form to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the College Director of Graduate Studies by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. More information can be found on the department website ( ). V. Accelerated BS/MS Program in Electrical or Computer Engineering This program allows outstanding undergraduates to begin the coursework for the Master of Science in Electrical or Computer Engineering during their senior year. Students are encouraged to begin planning to enter the Accelerated BS/MS program early in their undergraduate career, in consultation with their advisor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. Working with the undergraduate and graduate academic coordinators, undergraduates, who are selected into this program, may choose EECE electives at the 6000 level that will allow them to complete their BS degree while also beginning the coursework toward their MS degree. However, any graduate coursework will not apply to the undergraduate GPA. Students may apply for the program once they have completed one semester of junior course work. In order to remain in the program past the junior year, students must maintain a GPA of at least 3.25. Up to 9 hours of graduate course work may be applied to both the undergraduate and graduate programs. To continue in the program past the BS, students must apply for full admission into the Graduate School and either the Electrical or Computer Engineering MS program during their senior year. Students that are eligible for the ABM program will have the GRE requirement waived. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .