#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/pdfs/etms.pdf
Updated: September 13 , 201 4 1 U.S. Navy Education Training Management Subspecialty (ETMS) The University of Memphis ETMS Program Courses with Descriptions A course from each of the ten categories is required for the U.S. Navy ETMS Program. Note the M.S. in Leadership and Policy Studi es degree requirements at the end of this document. The M.S. in Leadership is now offered completely online. However, not all the courses that are options for the ETMS program are offered online. For students who wish to earn the M.S. in Leadership and the ETMS designation without relocating to the Memphis area, there are online options available in each category to accomplish the two programs entirely online. 1). Management * L EAD 7000. Introduction to Educational Leadership. (3). Theory and pract ice of educational leadership; scope, task, areas, processes and procedures, organization structure, problems and issues, and types of personnel needed in the United States. Offered online or face - to - face. MGMT 7030. Management and Organization. (3). Co mprehensive analysis of concepts and environments; management as a sub - function of the total organizational system interacting with objectives, planning, and control; organizational design and interpersonal relationships; nature of operations management. 2). Navy E ducation/Training Organization and Operation LEAD 8001. Educational Leadership in Organizations. (3). Basic theories of organization and administra tion; historical and contemporary foundations of theories; implications of current theories and practices for organizational and human resource development. Offere d online only . MGMT 7422 - 8422. Seminar in Organizational Theory. (3). Major historical and contemporary theories of organization; emphasis on study of organizational structures, principles, techniques, and processes as they relate to management of organizations. Individual studies will be pursued with group analysis and discussion at regular cl ass meetings. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 7030. 3). Planning, Programming and Budgeting ACCT 7000 . Fundamentals of Accounting . (3). Accelerated and in - depth introduction to the conceptual foundations of accounting as a dynamic information system for measuring and communicating economic and financial data for planning and control purposes. Primarily for non - business students but is acceptable to remove accounting prerequisites for the MBA and MS programs. ACCT 7080 - Financial/Managerial Acct Mgrs (3) Use of acco unting information by an organization's investors, creditors, regulatory authorities and managers; develops financial credit analysis skills useful in business decision making; analysis of accounting information useful for monitoring efficiency, quality, a nd timeliness of an operation; pricing and costing of products and services; planning and performance measurement. Offered onlin e. Updated: September 13 , 201 4 2 HIAD 8422. Higher Education Finance. (3). Financing of institutions in higher education; sources and methods of securing fun ds; development of programs; procedures for budget development and analysis; other financial and economic aspects of higher education administration; analysis of current problems related to higher education finance. Offered onli ne only. HIAD 7512 - 8512. D eveloping and Funding Leadership Programs. (3). Adult leadership programs in various organizations, agencies, and groups as primary, supplementary, or complementary function; community relations and development in funding. Offered online only. 4). I nstruc tional S ystems Development (ISD) for Management and Supervisory Purpose ICL 7059. Models of Instruction. (3). Analysis of theoretical and research support for selected models of instruction; emphasis on teaching applications. Offered onlin e. ID T 7071 - 8071 . Principles and Applications of Instructional Design. (3) Application of instructional design principles to solve performance and instructional problems in educational and non - educational environments. Offered onlin e. ID T 7078 - 8078. Seminar in Instructi onal Design and Technology. (3). (CIED 7078 - 8078). Professional and research problems in instructional strategies, design, and technology. May be repeated once with a change in topic. PREREQUIS ITE: Permission of instructor. Offered onlin e. HIAD 7415 - 8415. IT Trends and Issues in Higher and Adult Education. (3). Explores issues and trends in information technology for leaders of higher and adult education, involving readings, discussion, and hands - on web research related to IT planning and budget considerati ons, academic and administrative systems, management of IT professionals, and IT - induced change in various segments of education. Offere d online only . 5). Personnel/Manpower Management Policies PADM 7605 - Human Resources Admin (3) (POLS 7605 - 8605). Poli cies, methods, and techniques utilized in public and health organizations; special attention is given to problems reflecting contemporary demands upon human resource systems, capacity to diagnose problems, select the most effective means of addressing them , and plan appropriate courses of action developed through case studies. Offere d online. PSYC 7215 - 8215. Organizational Psychology. (3). The course deals with the major organizational determinants of individual and group behavior and performance. The char acteristics of organization structure and climate are explored from both a classical and a contemporary viewpoint. Organization change and development theories are examined plus the major ancillary theoretical positions on leadership, individual and group performance, behavior modification, selection and training. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Offere d face - to - face only . Updated: September 13 , 201 4 3 6). Theory of Training/Educational Psychology HIAD7541 - 8541. Issues/Trends Teaching Adults (3). Teaching and learning in high er education and other educational settings; analysis of who our learners are and teaching approaches designed for diverse student populations. Offered online or face - to - face. HIAD 7510 - 8510. Overview Of Adult Educ ation (3) Historical development of adul t education; scope of field, including non - formal, post - secondary education, and human resource development. Offered onlin e. HIAD 7530 - 8530. Continuing Professional Education. (3). Background and development of continuing education for professionals, incl uding medicine, law, social work, psychology, dentistry, and education as well as other fields; examination of impetus and providers for such programs. Offere d online only. EDPR 7151 - 8151. Individual Differences in Learning. (3). Theoretical foundations of instructional models designed to adapt learning to individuals; includes programmed instruction, computer - based instruction, competency - based (PSI) models, token economy systems, peer tutoring strategies, and contemporary theoretical models pertaining t o behavior modification, aptitude - treatment interactions, and adaptive instruction. Offered onlin e. EDPR 7121 - 8121. Learning and Cognition Applied to Education. (3). Major theories of learning and cognition; emphasis on current research and implications and applications for practitioners. 7 ). Training Research and Development Process * EDPR 7521. Introduction to Educational Research. (3). Introduction to major concepts and processes underlying educational research; focus on knowledge necessary for critic ally appraising published research and preparing students as research consumers. Offered online or face - to - face . EDPR 7541 - 8541. Statistical Methods Applied to Education I. (3). Utilization and interpretation of statistical methods applied to education; topics include frequency distributions, central tendency, variability correlation, linear regression, introduction to probability, normal distribution, interval estimation, hypothesis testing via t - test and chi - square and computer utilization in statistica l analysis. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7521 or 7523 or permission of instructor. Offered online or face - to - face. 8). Applications of Computer Technology HIAD 7415 - 8415. IT Trends and Issues in Higher and Adult Education. (3). Explores issues and trends in inform ation technology for leaders of higher and adult education, involving readings, discussion, and hands - on web research related to IT planning and budget considerations, academic and administrative systems, management of IT professionals, and IT - induced chan ge in various segments of education. Offere d online only . EDPR 7531 - 8531. Computer as a Research Tool. (3). Computer applications to research processes in education and the behavioral sciences; capabilities and limitations of computers in Updated: September 13 , 201 4 4 analysis of edu cational data; experience in the utilization of various (statistical) library programs. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7/8541; or permission of the instructor. 9). Contract Administration HIAD 8420. Higher Education Law. (3). Legal principles and significant legal c onstraints relating to institutions of higher education; emphasis on application of law to organizational structure, students, personnel, programs, property, and finance; analysis of current legal issues. Offered online only. 10). Training Systems, Existi ng and Conceptual * LEAD 7500 - 8500. Adult Learning and Leadership. (3). Characteristics of adult learners; factors that affect learning, achievement, and motivation throughout the adult life - cycle; implications for educational leaders and human resource de velopment. Offered online or face - to - face . IT D 7074 - 8074. Theories and Models of Instructional Design. (3). A critical examination of existing instructional design theories from the perspective of supporting research and application. Offered online . _____ _________________________________________________________________________ Listed below are r e quired core courses for the M.S. degree in Leadership and Policy Studies with a Leadership Concentration: LEAD 7000 Introduction to Educational Leadership. LEAD 75 00 Adult Learning and Leadership. LEAD 7100 Education and Community. (3). Educational processes and policies in formal and non - formal community settings; inter - relationships among such settings; field - based, students will assess particular educational pol icy and its implications within the community. EDPR 7521 Introduction to Educational Research. For a complete description of the M.S. Degree in Leadership and Policy Studies refer to the Leadership web site : - leadership.htm . For more information contact: Dr. Jeffery L. Wilson j.l.wilson@memphis.edu 901 - 678 - 3 428 * = r Leadership.