#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/cas/soci.php
SOCI Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning SOCI Courses SOCIOLOGY (SOCI) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: SOCI 6900-09. Special Topics in Sociology. (3). Topics are varied and announced in online class listings. SOCI 7901-7909–8901-8909. Special Topics in Sociology. (1-3). SOCI 6210 - Rise of Sociological Theory (3) Nature, grounds, and explanatory powers of various forms of sociological theory; analysis of bases for scientific and philosophical assumptions and social and political contexts; major theorists including Durkheim, Marx, Weber, Simmel. SOCI 6211 - Contemp Soc Theory (3) A course that examines the trends and the development in sociological theory from the mid-20th century to today. Theories covered range from descriptive to explanatory to critical theories of social action, organization, inequality, and change, as well as the interaction between people, groups, and even societies. SOCI 6312 - Intermed Soc Stat (3) Multivariate analysis of social data; use of computer programs for data management and statistical analysis. PREREQUISITES: SOCI 3311 and 3322, or their equivalent, or permission of the instructor. SOCI 6425 - Environmental Sociology (3) Role of social institutions, power, and inequality in shaping environmental discourse and action; dynamics of environmental social movements. SOCI 6842 - Soci Of Occup & Prof (3) Sociological analysis of the division of labor, occupational groupings, career patterns, and professional associations in modern American society. SOCI 7210 - Theory Seminar (3) An advanced analysis of recent developments in sociological theory, including the relationship of theory to empirical research. SOCI 7212 - Mult Racial Femnst Thry (3) Intensive analysis of major figures and issues in contemporary multi-racial feminist theory, emphasis on theory that grapples with conceptual and methodological requirements for multi-racial feminist politics of diversity that draws on both United States and international scholarship. SOCI 7320 - Sem Meth Soc Res (3) Issues and techniques in data collection for the design and implementation of independent research projects; logic of conducting social scientific research, ethical considerations, logic of sampling, various methods of collecting data for social research (e.g. experimental design, participant observation, survey research/questionnaire construction, and content analysis), and writing research proposals. SOCI 7322 - Sem Quant Data Analysis (3) Preparation, analysis, and interpretation of existing quantitative data; data processing, multivariate analysis, interpretation, and writing results for research projects. PREREQUISITE: SOCI 6312, equivalent, or permission of instructor. SOCI 7325 - Sem Qualitative Resrch (3) Examination of qualitative social science research methods, particularly the rationale behind these methods, how and when they are employed, and processes of analyzing qualitative data. SOCI 7410 - Sociology Of Gender (3) Social definitions of gender and impact of these definitions on women's and men's lives; women's and men's responses to these conditions. SOCI 7411 - Social Stratification (3) Theoretical analysis of how social class status and power shape social relations, determine life chances, and affect attitudes, opinions, and political choices of individuals and groups; processes that perpetuate systems of class, gender, and race inequality, and degree of social mobility in societies. SOCI 7421 - Racial & Social Inequal (3) (7810). A comparative study of racial, ethnic, and social minorities focusing on inequality as global and historical phenomena. Includes theoretical and empirical research on multiple interactions of race, class and gender. SOCI 7442 - Sociology Of Poverty (3) Patterns of wealth and income inequality in contemporary society; consequences of poverty for society and individuals in various institutional contexts. Critical evaluation of traditional theories of poverty and contemporary alternatives. SOCI 7450 - Seminar On Aging (3) Aging as sociological phenomenon through understanding and applying principles of gerontological analysis to contemporary topics in aging, including acquaintance with and use of computer accessible literature data base. SOCI 7511 - Theories Of Deviance (3) A seminar in the sociological approaches to the study of deviance and social disorganization with an emphasis on current sociological theory and research. SOCI 7631 - Urban Theory Seminar (3) Competing theories and accompanying research findings on current issues in macro and micro urban theory; rise and fall of cities; effects of urbanism and urban form on individual and group behavior; how urban social groups (e.g., social classes, race/ethnic groups) manage their lives and their relations with others, and how these groups mobilize in efforts to change or resist change. SOCI 7655 - Socio Found Cmmty Stds (3) Ecological, interaction, and social system perspectives for community analysis; contemporary applications of theories within context of American society; implications of current changes for community life and social stratification, leadership and power structure, social differentiation and integration, community development, and ideology. SOCI 7711 - Sem Globlztn/Soc Chng (3) Sociological and historical perspectives on social, political, and economic differences among countries and regions of the world; global/ transnational processes in uneven development; state formation; class transformation; democracy. SOCI 7721 - Sem Social Movements (3) Origins, organization, and consequences of intentional, collective efforts at social change; social movement theory; in-depth examination of selected movements, both domestic and international. SOCI 7751 - Sem Socio Social Psyc (3) Advanced course in sociological social psychology surveying various classical and contemporary microsociological theories and methodological orientations. Topics include symbolic interaction, role theory, dramaturgical analysis, self and socialization, social exchange, group dynamics and many other relevant current research and theoretical perspectives. SOCI 7811 - Sociology of Organizations (3) (7460). Examination of competing theories of formal and complex organizations and accompanying empirical research on macro organizational behavior, the internal and external dynamics of organizations, the relationships between organizations and institutions, and organizational change. SOCI 7820 - Sem Soci Of Education (3) Schools and school life from sociological perspective; how societal objectives are translated into school policies and practices. SOCI 7830 - Seminar In Family (3) (7420). An advanced course that is primarily concerned with research findings in the area of family disorganization, changes in family structure and function, parent-child interaction, working mothers, and problems of aging. SOCI 7851 - Medical Sociology (3) Sociological understandings of society, demographic processes, organizations, behavior, and health. SOCI 7852 - Soci Mental Illness (3) Social meaning of mental illness, with special emphasis on the cultural, organizational, and behavioral contexts of the occurrence and management of mental illness. SOCI 7853 - Gender And Health (3) Advanced course on sociological understandings of gender, health, and illness in the US; topics include health status, health behaviors, reproductive health, health professions, care-giving, aging and mortality with special attention to women and men of different class, racial, and ethnic groups. SOCI 7860 - Sem Soci Of Religion (3) A sociological examinations of religious institutions; cultural and social factors associated with religious structure, religious values, and religious behavior ; secularization of culture and change of social structure; analysis of religious organizations, religious leadership, and religious movements. SOCI 7912 - Directed Indiv Study (1-4) Individually directed advanced reading and/or research in special areas of interest. NOTE: Course may be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: Permissions of Coordinator of Graduate Studies. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. SOCI 7914 - Wrkshp For Grad Assts (1-3) Presentations of research methods and scholarly output by faculty, graduate students, and visiting scholars. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. NOTE: Sociology majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. PREREQUISITE: Limited to sociology majors; permission of graduate coordinator. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. SOCI 7996 - Thesis (1-6) Supervised research in preparation for advanced degree thesis. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. SOCI 8210 - Theory Seminar (3) An advanced analysis of recent developments in sociological theory, including the relationship of theory to empirical research. SOCI 8212 - Mult Racial Femnst Thry (3) Intensive analysis of major figures and issues in contemporary multi-racial feminist theory, emphasis on theory that grapples with conceptual and methodological requirements for multi-racial feminist politics of diversity that draws on both United States and international scholarship. SOCI 8320 - Sem Meth Soc Res (3) Issues and techniques in data collection for the design and implementation of independent research projects; logic of conducting social scientific research, ethical considerations, logic of sampling, various methods of collecting data for social research (e.g. experimental design, participant observation, survey research/questionnaire construction, and content analysis), and writing research proposals. SOCI 8325 - Sem Qualitative Resrch (3) Examination of qualitative social science research methods, particularly the rationale behind these methods, how and when they are employed, and processes of analyzing qualitative data. SOCI 8410 - Sociology Of Gender (3) Social definitions of gender and impact of these definitions on women's and men's lives; women's and men's responses to these conditions. SOCI 8411 - Social Stratification (3) Theoretical analysis of how social class status and power shape social relations, determine life chances, and affect attitudes, opinions, and political choices of individuals and groups; processes that perpetuate systems of class, gender, and race inequality, and degree of social mobility in societies. SOCI 8422 - Race/Class/Gender (3) Concepts, theories, and contemporary empirical research regarding multiple intersections of race, class, and gender; implications for sociological theory and methodology. SOCI 8442 - Sociology Of Poverty (3) Patterns of wealth and income inequality in contemporary society; consequences of poverty for society and individuals in various institutional contexts. Critical evaluation of traditional theories of poverty and contemporary alternatives. SOCI 8511 - Theories Of Deviance (3) A seminar in the sociological approaches to the study of deviance and social disorganization with an emphasis on current sociological theory and research. SOCI 8655 - Socio Found Cmmty Stds (3) Ecological, interaction, and social system perspectives for community analysis; contemporary applications of theories within context of American society; implications of current changes for community life and social stratification, leadership and power structure, social differentiation and integration, community development, and ideology. SOCI 8711 - Sem Globlztn/Soc Chng (3) Sociological and historical perspectives on social, political, and economic differences among countries and regions of the world; global/ transnational processes in uneven development; state formation; class transformation; democracy. SOCI 8721 - Sem Social Movements (3) Origins, organization, and consequences of intentional, collective efforts at social change; social movement theory; in-depth examination of selected movements, both domestic and international. SOCI 8751 - Sem Socio Social Psyc (3) Advanced course in sociological social psychology surveying various classical and contemporary microsociological theories and methodological orientations. Topics include symbolic interaction, role theory, dramaturgical analysis, self and socialization, social exchange, group dynamics and many other relevant current research and theoretical perspectives. SOCI 8811 - Sociology of Organizations (3) (7460). Examination of competing theories of formal and complex organizations and accompanying empirical research on macro organizational behavior, the internal and external dynamics of organizations, the relationships between organizations and institutions, and organizational change. SOCI 8830 - Seminar In Family (3) (7420). An advanced course that is primarily concerned with research findings in the area of family disorganization, changes in family structure and function, parent-child interaction, working mothers, and problems of aging. SOCI 8851 - Medical Sociology (3) Sociological understandings of society, demographic processes, organizations, behavior, and health. SOCI 8852 - Soci Mental Illness (3) Social meaning of mental illness, with special emphasis on the cultural, organizational, and behavioral contexts of the occurrence and management of mental illness. SOCI 8860 - Sem Soci Of Religion (3) A sociological examinations of religious institutions; cultural and social factors associated with religious structure, religious values, and religious behavior ; secularization of culture and change of social structure; analysis of religious organizations, religious leadership, and religious movements. SOCI 8912 - Directed Indiv Study (1-4) Individually directed advanced reading and/or research in special areas of interest. NOTE: Course may be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: Permission of Coordinator of Graduate Studies. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .