#http://cotton.memphis.edu/visas.php
ACSA Cotton Institute Cotton Institute The Program Leaders &amp; Admission Fees &amp; Scholarships Program Application Visa About Memphis, Tennessee Visas Generally, a citizen of a foreign country who wishes to enter the United States must first obtain a visa. A nonimmigrant visa for temporary stay is needed for Institute participants. A (B-1) "visitor" visa is a non-immigrant visa issued by the United States government for persons desiring to enter the United States temporarily for business. This includes travel for a scientific, educational, professional or business convention, or conference on specific dates. Visa allows non-U.S. residents to travel to the United States port-of-entry and request permission of the U.S. immigration inspector to enter the U.S. B-1 "Visitor" Visa Procedure Anyone wanting to enter the United States must have a valid visa obtained at a U.S. embassy or consulate. A person requesting a B-1 visa for this program must present a letter of invitation from the International Cotton Institute. As required, the invitation letter stating the purpose of the visit will be provided to all registered Institute participants. It is at the American Consul's discretion to grant any visa. Often in person interviews at the American Consul or U.S. Embassy are required. Please schedule an interview appointment promptly after acceptance to the Institute to ensure your arrival in the United States for the beginning of the program. The same invitation letter must be presented to an immigration official at the point of entry into the United States and a request made for entrance in this visa classification. The immigration official at the port of entry will provide you with an entry permit (Form I-94) and the official will note "B-1" on the Institute participant's entry permit (Form I-94). This notation on the I-94 form is of the greatest importance. Often a person will have a B-1/B-2 visa for an indefinite period in his/her passport. But it is presentation of the letter of invitation from the Institute that authorizes the immigration official to grant the B-1 classification at the time of entry into the United States. For additional information on a B-1 visas, go to . Note : Student visas will not be issued for this program. Text Only | Print | Contact Us | Copyright 2016 University of Memphis | Important Notice FedEx Institute of Technology, Suite 228, Memphis, TN 38152-3115 | (901) 678-5000 Site maintained by Conference &amp; Event Services | Last updated: 09/28/2015 11:15 am Visit Conference &amp; Event Services on Facebook