#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/cas/phys.php
PHYS Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning PHYS Courses PHYSICS AND MATERIAL SCIENCE (PHYS) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: PHYS 6000-09. Special Topics in Physics. (3). Selected topics of current interest in physics. Topics are varied and announced in online class listings. PHYS 7050-59. Special Topics in Advanced Physics. (3-6). Selected topics in advanced physics. Topics are varied and announced in online class listings. PHYS 6020 - Soft Matter/Biological Physics (3) Random walks, diffusion, entropic forces, colloidal suspensions, polymers, self-assemblies, lipid membranes, transitions in biomolecules, molecular machines in biomembranes. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2120 and CHEM 1120. PHYS 6021 - App Radiation Physics (3) Applied radiation and radioactivity; types of radiation, radiation management, interaction with matter, and biological effects; radiation safety aspects emphasized. PREREQUISITES: PHYS 2120 or 2020 and MATH 1910. PHYS 6040 - Medical Physics (3) Physics of sensory, respiratory, and circulatory systems; physical basis of radiology and nuclear medicine. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2120 or both PHYS 2020 and MATH 1910. PHYS 6050 - Astrophysics I (3) Principles of physics applied to the objects of the universe, e.g., planets, sun, stars, etc. Also includes and introduction to electromagnetic radiation and telescopes. Recommended for science and engineering majors interested in astronomy. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2120 or PHYS 2520. PHYS 6051 - Astrophysics II (3) Principles of physics applied to star birth and death, black holes and neutron stars, galaxies and quasars, the beginning and evolution of the universe. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3051. PHYS 6110 - Nuclear Physics (3) Properties of atomic nuclei; radioactive transitions; alpha, beta, and gamma decay; binding energy, nuclear forces, and nuclear models. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3010. PHYS 6211 - Waves and Optics (3) Mathematical description of vibrations and waves with application to sound and electromagnetic waves; geometrical optics; interference and diffraction; holography; introduction to laser physics and photonics. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2120 and PHYS 3011. PHYS 6410 - Intro Quantum Theory (3) Historical background of quantum theory, mathematical formalism of quantum mechanics, solutions of Schrodinger equation for bound and scattering states in one dimension, harmonic oscillator, angular momentum, and introduction to atomic and molecular structures. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3010, PHYS 3011, PHYS 3211. PHYS 6510 - Thermal and Statistical Phys (3) Introduction to thermodynamics and statistical mechanics, includes topics such as temperature, work, heat, entropy, thermodynamic potentials, ideal gases, phase transitions, classical and quantum ensembles, and partition functions. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2120 and PHYS 3011. PHYS 6610 - Solid State Physics (3) Crystal structures, crystal bonding, x-ray diffraction, lattice vibrations and phonons, free and nearly-free electron models, energy bands of insulators, metals, and semiconductors. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 4410 PHYS 6620 - Device Physics and Microfabric (3) Semiconductor devices and microfabrication; crystal properties and growth of semiconductors, energy bands and charge carriers, p-n junction, field-effect transistors, bipolar transistors, optoelectronic devices, power devices, power devices, and fundamentals of microfabrication, including vacuum technology and thin film deposition techniques. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3211, PHYS 3010, PHYS 3011. PHYS 6720 - Materials Physics (3) Basic concepts in materials science emphasizing relationships between microscopic structure and properties; crystallography and symmetries, thermodynamics of material, phase equilibria, structure of ceramics and polymers, mechanical properties of material, kinetics of phase transformations in materials. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3010. PHYS 6820 - Materials Physics Lab (3) Synthesis of various materials and characterizations of their structure and properties using a variety of experimental tools; relationships between structure of materials and their properties are emphasized. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3010. PHYS 7010 - Fund Cncpts Class Phys (3) Basic concepts of Newtonian mechanics, heat, and sound; emphasis on increasing understanding in classical physics, providing demonstrations of physical principles suitable for classroom use, and designing and performing laboratory experiments. Credit does not apply toward a major or minor in chemistry or physics. PHYS 7011 - Physics Practicum I (1) Practicum or laboratory experiments, laboratory techniques, laboratory management, and supervised experience in presenting demonstrations with emphasis on concepts covered in Physics 7010. Two laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: PHYS 7010. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. PHYS 7021 - Physics Practicum II (1) Practicum laboratory with emphasis on the concept of Electricity and Magnetism. Two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS7011. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. PHYS 7031 - Physics Practicum III (1) Practicum laboratory with emphasis on the concept of Modern Physics. Two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 7021. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. PHYS 7060 - Indiv Study Adv Physics (1-3) Independent investigation of an area of advanced physics under supervision of a Physics faculty member. Written report required. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of chair. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. PHYS 7080 - Teaching Skills Ga (3) Overview of teaching techniques and classroom management for physics laboratory instructors; includes practical demonstrations in laboratory physics. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. NOTE: Physics majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. PREREQUISITE: Limited to physics majors and permission of graduate coordinator. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PHYS 7090 - Prof Development Wkshp (3) Presentations by Physics faculty and students on current research topic; oral presentation required based on research performed under the supervision of a faculty member. NOTE: Physics majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. PREREQUISITE: Limited to physics majors and permission of graduate coordinator. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PHYS 7100 - Classical Mechanics (3) An analytical study of mechanics of particles and rigid bodies by Lagrange's, Hamilton's and Hamilton-Jacobi methods. The special theory of relativity, canonical transformation, and Poisson brackets are among the concepts emphasized. PHYS 7200 - Quantum Mechanics I (3) Physical principles and mathematical formalism of quantum theory, with emphasis on applications in atomic, molecular, and solid state physics; scattering theory; and absorption and emission of electromagnetic radiation. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 6410 or equivalent. PHYS 7201 - Quantum Mechanics II (3) Continuation of PHYS 7200; scattering theory, quantum dynamics, spin, perturbation methods, and Hartree-Fock. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 7200. PHYS 7210 - Relativist Quantum Mech (3) Quantum mechanics of relativistic particles including the Dirac equation, relativistic covariance, solutions for free particles, particles in electromagnetic fields, particles in central fields, methods of approximation and massless particles. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 7200 or permission of instructor. PHYS 7220 - Relativ Quantum Fields (3) General formalism of fields, the Klein-Gordon field, second quantization of the Dirac field, quantization of electromagnetic fields, interacting fields, scattering matrix perturbation theory, dispersion relations, and renormalization. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 7210 or permission of instructor. PHYS 7230 - Elementary Particles (3) Introduction to elementary particles, elementary particle dynamics, relativistic kinematics, symmetries, bound states, Feynman calculus, quantum electrodynamics, electrodynamics of quarks and hadrons, quantum chromodynamics, weak interactions, and gauge theories. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 7200 or permission of instructor. PHYS 7300 - Electrodynamics (3) An advanced course in electricity and magnetism; topics include fields and potentials, energy methods, steady currents and magnetic materials, Maxwell's equations, and electromagnetic waves. PHYS 7375 - Methods/Comput Physics (3) (Same as MATH 7375). Finite dimensional vector spaces, matrices, tensors, vector fields, function spaces, differential and integral operators, transform theory, partial differential equations. PREREQUISITE: Background in ordinary differential equations and linear algebra. PHYS 7376 - Methods Math Physics II (3) (Same as MATH 7376, ESCI 7376). Continuation of PHYS 7375. Complex variable theory, asymptotic expansions, special functions, calculus of variations, additional topics on matrices and operators, topics in non-linear analysis. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 7375. PHYS 7385 - Methods/Comput Physics (3) Solution of problems in macroscopic and atomic-level problems in physics by numerical analysis and computer simulation, with emphasis on the accuracy and efficiency of large-scale computations and the physical interpretation of results. PHYS 7386 - Method Theoretical Phys (3) Use of orthogonal functions in solving problems of continuum mechanics, electrodynamics, and quantum mechanics; algebra of commutators applied to angular momentum; introduction to group theory and symmetry groups in physics. PHYS 7390 - Polymer Physics (3) This course introduces students to concepts and phenomena of polymers phase behavior and dynamics. These include single polymer chain conformations, dilute and simi-dilute polymer solutions, polyelectrolyte solutions, effect of confinement, polymer blends, diblock copolymers, kinetics of polymers in dilute and concentrated polymer solutions, and spinodal decomposition in polymer blends. PREREQUISITES: PHYS 3010 and 7520 PHYS 7520 - Statistical Mechanics (3) Elements of kinetic theory and applications to gases, specific heats, magnetism, etc.; partition functions, introduction to Boltzmann statistics and quantum statistics. PHYS 7710 - Adv Top Spectroscopy (3) Advanced topics in atomic and molecular spectroscopy, including the interaction of radiation with matter, transition probabilities, hyperfine structure, applications of group theory to spectroscopic problems. PHYS 7995 - Seminar (1-3) Selected topics in physics research including areas of medical physics. Students required to give oral presentation based on library or original research. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PHYS 7996 - Thesis (1-6) Original investigation of an assigned problem in the area of graduate study to be carried out under the supervision of a qualified member of the staff. This investigation will furnish the material for a thesis. Scientific articles, progress reports, and special problems of interest are reviewed and discussed by the student in seminars each semester. A maximum of six semester hours credit is allowed toward a master's degree.Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PHYS 8100 - Classical Mechanics (3) An analytical study of mechanics of particles and rigid bodies by Lagrange's, Hamilton's and Hamilton-Jacobi methods. The special theory of relativity, canonical transformation, and Poisson brackets are among the concepts emphasized. PHYS 8200 - Quantum Mechanics I (3) Physical principles and mathematical formalism of quantum theory, with emphasis on applications in atomic, molecular, and solid state physics; scattering theory; and absorption and emission of electromagnetic radiation. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 6410 or equivalent. PHYS 8201 - Quantum Mechanics II (3) Continuation of PHYS 7200; scattering theory, quantum dynamics, spin, perturbation methods, and Hartree-Fock. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 7200. PHYS 8520 - Statistical Mechanics (3) Elements of kinetic theory and applications to gases, specific heats, magnetism, etc.; partition functions, introduction to Boltzmann statistics and quantum statistics. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .