#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/about/deans_message.php
Dean's Message - FCBE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty &amp; Staff Research News About FCBE Dean's Message Mission Statement Facts &amp; Figures General Information A to Z List Driving Directions FAQs Job Announcements Social Media Policy Faculty and Staff Student Contact Us Home FCBE About FCBE Dean's Message Dean's Message Welcome to the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics Web site. Under our model of operation, we consider members of the business community to be our customers; the students our products; and the faculty and staff our employees that manufacture the product. We constantly strive to produce excellent products. By doing so, we not only satisfy our customers, but also our students who can command outstanding positions in great organizations. Our faculty and staff take great pride in producing a quality product. Whether you are a prospective student, a parent, a potential employer or someone seeking employment with the College, let it be known that under this philosophy, all stakeholders win. At Fogelman College, we are proud to differentiate ourselves by providing a unique Complete Professional Program that holistically prepares students with the tools to achieve both personal and professional excellence. Through the Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center, we provide training on ethics, healthy living habits, business etiquette, resume building, professionalism, philanthropic activities, and more. This special program better prepares our students to enter the business world with a mastery of academic and interpersonal skills, both of which are necessary for success. Memphis is home to many of America's greatest companies, and the Fogelman College takes maximum advantage of the metropolitan environment in which it is located. Students are provided opportunities to interact with the business community through real-world, relevant, and important projects and internships. These internships, which span a variety of industries such as marketing, finance, accounting, etc., provide students with a chance to actually apply the business strategies and tactics they have learned in the classroom to real-world scenarios. Internships also provides our customers (i.e. companies) with a chance to secure new, fresh talent. These practical learning opportunities result in a win-win for all. When you combine the wealth of real-world experience available to Fogelman College students with a philosophy geared to make the student more marketable to employers, the result is exceptional graduates who can compete with the best in the world and who are prepared for professionally and financially rewarding positions when they enter the workforce. One of the many programs we provide to enhance this real-world learning experience for our students is the Customer-Driven MBA program . This 17-month, cohort-based program provides dualistic learning through a combination of classroom courses and on-the-job training. CD-MBA students simultaneously complete the MBA course requirements while also working as part-time interns at some of our partnering companies, such as FedEx, Smith &amp; Nephew, Medtronic, and more. Upon graduation, these students have a thorough understanding of the inner-workings of their respective companies and are well-versed in a breadth of business principles that can be applied to any role throughout their careers. The Fogelman College operates under a faculty portfolio model which allows us to effectively educate students at all stages in their education – whether they are undergraduate, masters or doctoral level. Under this unique model, we maximize the individual talents of each faculty member. While all faculty are engaged in varying degrees in relevant research and knowledge generation to solve business problems, some faculty members specialize in educating and inspiring our undergraduate students; others apply their unique talents to executive education and building bridges to the business community; a third group of faculty members find their calling in educating our Ph.D. students. Faculty are recruited or assigned responsibilities to take advantage of their specific skill set, and we constantly evaluate the current and needed skills of our faculty members so we can optimize the knowledge generation and dissemination functions. Whether you are a current or future product or customer of the Fogelman College, or someone just looking for more information, I hope you will take the time to explore our Web site and visit the College in person. I look forward to working with you in whatever capacity you may require. Dr. Rajiv Grover Dean, Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics 901.678.3633 About FCBE Dean's Message Mission Statement Facts &amp; Figures General Information A to Z List Driving Directions FAQs Job Announcements Social Media Policy Faculty and Staff Student Contact Us Apply to our Undergraduate Programs &gt; Enroll at the university and engage yourself with our six different departments, student enrichment, and more. Apply to our Masters Programs &gt; Earn your degree with one of our six MBA tracks or with one of our four specialized Masters programs! Apply to our Doctoral Programs &gt; Interested in a Ph.D.? Start the journey towards your Ph.D. here! Contact Us &gt; Have questions? Call or email today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .