#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/other/2015FSCMS3510002.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus SCMS 3510 - PRODUCTION OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT Fall 2015 3.0 Credit Hours Profess or: Satish Mehra, Ph.D., CPIM Room 246 BA Building 678 - 2476 E - mail: smehra@memphis.edu URL: Office Hours: 30 minutes after each class period. More hours will be added later. Course Overview learn the basics of how you can operate a business effectively, efficiently, and with high productivity to consistently beat the competition and make higher level of profit. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: To pass this course, s tudent s should have a good grasp of basic mathematics , statistical, and ap plied writing skills. In general, it is assumed that all students who are registering for Fogelman College classes have successfully completed any pre - requisites or are enrolled currently in any co - requisites associated with this course. Required Text: S tevenson, William J. , O perations Management , McGraw - Hill Irwin Publishing Co . 11 th edition (take note!!!!!!!) . ISBN: 978 - 0 - 07 - 352525 - 9 Course Description/Objectives This is an introductory course in production and operations management that covers topical areas of competitiveness through better management of business operations. Key questions are: What can be done to make a productive system p. 2 more effective and profita ble? What can we learn from international operations to make U.S. operations more competitive? What is necessary for businesses to make money now, and more money in the future, in a socially responsible and ethical manner? Course objectives will be achiev ed through learning the following topics: 1. POM - 2. Competitiveness, Strategy, Productivity, Waste, Value, Efficiency and Effectiveness issues. 3. Forecasting. 4. Quality, QC, and TQM. 5. Product and Process Design, and Rel iability Considerations. 6. Capacity Concepts. 7. Layout & Line Balancing. 8. Location Analysis. 9. Supply Chain Management (SCM). 10. Inventory Management. 11. Just - in - Time concepts. 12. Scheduling. Learning Outcomes for Your Degree from Fogelman College This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with th e overall learning objectives as a student in the BBA program : rningOut comes.pdf Course Methodology A combination of lectures and solving numerical problem s will be used to deliver the knowledge needed to complete the objectives of this course. Course Grading and Final Course Grade There will be a total of 3 exams in this course. Your course grade will be based upon these three exams weighted equally . No make - up exam will be given (unless approval is received from me PRIOR to the regularly scheduled exam). Due to the contents of this course, class attendance is req uired . There will be random presence checks/roll calls to notice class attendance. Missed p. 3 classes/exams can affect your final course grade including possible failure in the course. Third exam will be the last exam, and it will be given at the end of the co urse completion. Therefore, d e pending on the speed of the topic coverage, it may or may not be given during the regularly scheduled final exam dat e/time. If you wish , please check the final exam schedule at website . Tentative Exam Dates : will be announced as course progresse s . Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all o fficial course correspondence at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not re condition, etc.) is your responsibility. Attendance: As mentioned above, class absences will affect your grade. Due to the analytical nature of the course, please do attend each and every class. Adding / Dropping : If you have questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to this page on the . Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. Note that using a Solutions Manual is considered c heating. If your P rofessor ha s the evidence that using a Solutions Manual has occurred, he may take steps Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Syllabus Changes: The Professor reserves the right to make changes to this syllabus as necessary . p. 4 COMMENTS FOR THE CLASS We will use the following space for communication during the semester. NOTE: Using Cell Phones while in class IS NOT PERMITTED. All Cell phones MUST be turned - off prior to entering the classroom. Violation of this request will . Insensitivity in this area will not be tolerated. Cell phones will not be used as calculators . Note : This warning has become necessary due to other students complaining abou t some cell phones buzzing/ringing during the class and/or exam and causing them harm. For your professional enhancement, various current reading materials may be assigned, and written reports may be asked. Such reports may or may not carry any credit towa rds the course grade ; however, their completion may be required for passing the course. Also, please note that you must be in the classroom within five minutes of the class hour. Once lecture starts, you must NOT leave unless the class is dismissed. Insensitivity in this area will not be tolerated. Remind you, your attendance is required. E - mailing etiquette/process: 1) clearly identify yourself, and 2) use proper salutation. Start a buddy - buddy system. Use of laptop computers : is it good for this c ourse?