#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/cas/hist.php
HIST Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning HIST Courses HISTORY (HIST) All 7000-8000 level courses whose names begin with "Studies" or "Thematic Studies" consist primarily of readings of important recent scholarly articles and monographs of a field or subfield and writings based upon these readings. They do not require the completion of major research papers, which are reserved for Research Seminars numbered 7/8070. Lengthy reading lists not relevant to the paper are not appropriate for Research Seminars. Both types of courses may be repeated when the content varies. 6000-level courses may not be repeated, nor taken if the student has already taken the 4000-level component or the equivalent at another school. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: HIST 6050-69. Special Topics in History. (1-3). Intensive study of selected topics in History. Topics are announced in online class listings. HIST 7030-39–8030-39. Topics in History. (3). Topics within periods or problems that cross periods or subject areas. May be repeated when topic varies. HIST 6020 - Internship In History (1-12) Supervised internships working with various governmental agencies, private foundations, or businesses of interest to historians. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours credit, not more than 6 of which can be counted toward the satisfaction of degree requirements. PREREQUISITE: Permission of department. HIST 6022 - Oral History (3) Applied history covering oral history theory, research, and interviewing procedures. HIST 6050 - Hist Sexuality Modern Europe (3) Emergence and development of the thoroughly modern category of "sexuality" as a historical marker of personal and social identity in Europe from mid-eighteenth century up to the rise of totalitarianism. HIST 6053 - Law & Society in Colonial Amer (3) Exploration of the relationship between violence, cooperation and accommodation within and between networks of people who inhabited North America. HIST 6055 - Sexuality in 20th Cen US (3) Main issues, events, and transformations in American sexuality from 1900 to the present. HIST 6057 - Women in the Ancient World (3) Use of primary and secondary sources for understanding of the "Arab Spring" as the recent uprisings and revolutions in the Middle East that began in December 2010. HIST 6059 - Black Memphis (3) Social and cultural, political and economic roles of African Americans in Memphis from the early 19th century through the early 21st century. HIST 6062 - Urban Japan:Amaterasu-Godzilla (3) Formation and development of major Japanese cities such as Tokyo, Hiroshima, Kobe, Osaka, Nara, and Kyoto. HIST 6064 - Chinese Cul & Soc Through Film (3) Issues of modern Chinese history and an examination of how that history is treated in Chinese film. HIST 6065 - Weimar Germany (3) Literature, art, theater, and cinema of the Weimar Republic, Germany between 1918 and 1933. HIST 6066 - Cancer in America (3) Origins of Arab-Israeli dispute from mid 19th century through founding of the state of Israel and expulsion/flight of three quarters of a million Palestinians from their homes till present day. HIST 6067 - Religion in American History (3) Broad overview of the landscape of the history of religion in the United States. HIST 6105 - War in the Ancient World (3) Development of warfare from 2000 BCE to 1200 CE, from Bronze Age to Mongol conquests; emphasis on Greek and Roman warfare; tactics, methods, strategies; theories of war and their historical development; attention to relationships between cultures, technology, influence of culture on war and war on society. HIST 6106 - War in the Modern World (3) Development of warfare from 1400 to the present; tactics, methods, and strategies; theories of war and their historical development with particular attention to relationships between cultures, changing technology, and the manner in which war has been conducted; purposes for which wars are fought. HIST 6126 - Victorian/Edwardian England (3) Social, political, and cultural adjustments of England to the experience of industrialization in nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. HIST 6145 - History of Modern Germany (3) Germany from the origins of the unification movement in the Napoleonic Era through the Second World War. HIST 6151 - Habsburg Cent Europe 1740-1918 (3) The Habsburg Monarchy brought relative stability to a region that has since experienced ethnic cleansing, mass murder, and dictatorship. Starts with the Habsburg dynasty's efforts to centralize its authority and ends with WWI, which led to the collapse of the Monarchy and redrawing the borders of east central Europe. HIST 6160 - Russia to 1917 (3) Russia from earliest times to 1917, with special emphasis on the rise of serfdom and autocracy and the evolution of the Revolutionary Movement. HIST 6162 - Russia after 1917 (3) Detailed study of 1917 Revolution and major developments in government, economy, cultural and social life, and international affairs that followed. HIST 6213 - Women/Gender/Latin Amer (3) Historical examination of the roles of women and gender in Latin America from colonial times to the beginning of the twentieth century. HIST 6221 - 20th Century Latin Amr Rev (3) Critical comparative examination of twentieth-century revolutionary movements in Latin America, focusing on Mexico, Guatemala, Cuba, and Chile. HIST 6222 - Race/Class Latin America (3) Examination of race and class in Latin America from colonial times to the present, focusing on development of racial, ethnic, and class identities, and their roles in economic, social, political, and cultural life. HIST 6260 - World Since 1945 (3) Global, ideological, economic, and political developments since World War II; emphasis on rising affluence of industrial free market, movement of former colonies to independence, and growth in diversity among the Soviet bloc nations. HIST 6272 - Modern Middle East (3) Political, diplomatic, social, and religious developments in the Middle East from 1800 to present. HIST 6276 - Palestine/Zion/Israel/Conflict (3) Origins of the Israeli-Palestinian dispute from the late 18th century through the founding of the State of Israel and expulsion/flight of three quarters of a million Palestinians from the homes to the present day; major debates and controversies related to the dispute through primary and secondary sources. HIST 6277 - Ottoman Empire (3) Ottoman Empire people, geography, cultures, politics, administration, economy, and societies from its rise in the 13th century until its demise in 1922; major historiographical debates and literature related to the Ottoman Empire through primary and secondary sources, art, and literature. HIST 6283 - History/South Africa (3) South Africa from human origins to present, emphasizing 19th and 20th century economic and political history, examined within larger context of events throughout entire southern African region and globally; Apartheid system and liberation ideologies such as socialism, Pan-Africanism, and Black Consciousness explored through study of primary documents, film, and music. HIST 6288 - West Africa/Diaspora (3) History of West Africans from the 15th century to the present, focusing on trans-Atlantic slave trade and African diaspora in the Americas; particular emphasis on economic and social history through study of primary documents, film, and music. HIST 6289 - African Women's History (3) Experiences of women throughout entire history of African continent, from human origins to present; covers major epochs in African history, diversity of continent, and theoretical issues related to gender through study of primary documents, fiction, and film. HIST 6292 - Modern China 1800-Present (3) HIST 6294 - Modern Japan 1800-Present (3) HIST 6297 - Ancient India (3) History of India from earliest times to 1100; early period of Muslim rule; emphasis on cultural history, religious, legal, and other social institutions; Hinduism, Buddhism; "Aryan invasion" hypothesis; caste system; supposed "break" caused by Muslim invasions; British colonial representations of ancient India; relation between myth and history. HIST 6320 - Ancient Near East (3) From the beginnings of Mesopotamia down through the great empires of Assyria, Babylon, and Persia. HIST 6321 - Greek Experience (3) Politics, society, and culture in ancient Greece to Alexander the Great. HIST 6322 - The Roman World (3) Hellenistic kingdoms and the Roman Empire. HIST 6323 - Egypt Of The Pharaohs (3) A historical survey of ancient Egyptian civilization, covering major political and social developments and topics such as religion, writing, and literature, Egypt's relations with the rest of Africa, and sample problems that illustrate how Egyptologists approach the past. HIST 6361 - Hist Byzantine Empire (3) Byzantine or East Roman Empire from 330 to 1453 and its influence on the Slavic, Turkic, and Islamic peoples. HIST 6372 - High Middle Ages (3) Summary of the Early Middle Ages, economic, technological, cultural, intellectual, and religious expansion after 1000, courtly love, Romanesque and Gothic art, limited government, church and state conflicts, reason vs. revelation, universities, scholasticism, women, Judaism, science, Franciscans, Heretics, life of ordinary people, disasters of the fourteenth century, roots of the Renaissance. HIST 6380 - Renaissance Europe (3) Rise of humanism during fourteenth century disasters; intellectual, economic, social, cultural, religious, and artistic developments of fourteenth through sixteenth century, emphasizing Italy, especially Florence; women, life of ordinary people, guilds, republicanism and despotism, neoplatonism, Christian and civic humanism, Northern Renaissance. Is the Renaissance revolutionary or a development of medieval culture? HIST 6390 - Europe-Age Reformation (3) Characteristic political, social, economic, intellectual, and cultural developments and the religious conflicts of the late fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. HIST 6401 - Europe-Age Baroque (3) Political crises, the development of monarchial absolutism, the rise of modern science, and cultural synthesis in the seventeenth century. HIST 6440 - French Revolution (3) Old Regime, origins and development of Enlightenment thought, and revolutionary and counter-revolutionary movements in 18th century Europe. HIST 6453 - Europe 1815-1914 (3) HIST 6461 - Europe 1914-1945 (3) HIST 6506 - Cultural Intlctl Hist Europe (3) Critical and historical study of the major movements and developments in modern European philosophy, literature, and culture since the 17th century. HIST 6620 - Colonial America to 1783 (3) Political development and economic, social, and cultural institutions of English colonies in America, including origins and conduct of American Revolution. HIST 6630 - New Nation/1783-1815 (3) HIST 6640 - Jackson Amer 1815-1850 (3) HIST 6680 - Emr Mod Am 1877-1914 (3) HIST 6701 - U S 1914 To W War II (3) HIST 6702 - U S Since W War II (3) HIST 6823 - American Labor History (3) Historical development of the labor movement in the United States; emphasis on social, economic, and political trends related to the labor movement. HIST 6824 - Business History (3) Historical development of business in the United States; attention to social, economic, and political trends related to American business communities. HIST 6831 - History American Family (3) Analysis of changes in family size and structure and relationships between family and society from colonial times to present. HIST 6851 - Hist Women In America (3) Economic, political, social, and intellectual history of women in the English American colonies and the United States. HIST 6853 - African American Women (3) The social, political, economic, and cultural history of African American women from the sixteenth century to the present. HIST 6861 - Parks/People/Public Pol (3) A comparative study of the history and administration of public land areas in the United States and of American conservation. HIST 6863 - Hist Childhood/America (3) Historical consideration of children and childhood in American society from early 17th century to present. HIST 6871 - U S Urban History (3) Development of American cities, including formation of local social, economic, and political institutions and impact of urbanization on US. HIST 6879 - Africa To The Americas (3) Surveys arrival of Africans in western hemisphere to expansion of antebellum slavery in the US Lower South by 1820; examines African diaspora, colonial slavery, impact of slavery upon formation of US, and development of African American culture; also explores relationships between enslaved and free Blacks, Europeans, and Native Americans. HIST 6880 - Slavery/Freedom/Segretn (3) Examines social, political, and economic developments; antebellum slavery and freedom impact on westward expansion; Civil War emancipation and post-war construction of black freedom; development and impact of legal and extra-legal segregation; black nationalism and pan-Africanism; and Progressivism through the beginnings of the Great Migration. HIST 6882 - Civil Rights Movement (3) Struggle for African American equality, with emphasis on key civil rights issues, events, leaders, and strategies. HIST 6941 - Hist American Indian (3) Role of the Indian in American history. HIST 7011 - Phil & Theory of History (3) Speculative philosophy of history and recent problems in analytical philosophy of history. HIST 7012 - Directed Readings (1-3) Arranged on an individual basis between a student and a particular instructor, whose permission is required. Master's students may take a maximum of 3 hours (6 by petition), PhD students a maximum of 6 hours (12 by petition). Grades of A-F, or I will be given. HIST 7023 - Practicum in History (3) Participation in a fieldwork project or other project supervised by an approval authority (University of Memphis faculty or directors from other institutions). Class is pass/fail and does not count toward the degree. HIST 7024 - Fieldwork in History (3) Preparation for, participation in, and writing about a fieldwork or other research project supervised by an approved authority (UM faculty or directors from other institutions). Project planning such as grant writing and budgeting, and other assignments related to the project's goals are required. HIST 7025 - Principles&Practices Hist Ed (3) Explores the principles of history education, goals of student learning, and how to transform our classrooms into the kind active intellectual space that promotes those intellectual, analytical, and critical skills that will best prepare our students for life beyond the academy. Required for teaching assistants. HIST 7060 - Women/Gender Historiography (3) Theory and historiography of the field using major theoretical writings, from American and non-American perspectives, and from racially different viewpoints. HIST 7061 - Studies Women/Gender Hist (3) May be repeated when the content varies. HIST 7070 - Research Seminar (1-3) Emphasis on original research and writing in topics drawn from the fields generally covered by the Studies courses. May be repeated for credit when topic varies. PREREQUISITE: One 7000-level historiography course in any field. HIST 7100 - Global Historiography (3) Formation, development, and importance of global/ subglobal systems over time, societal interactions, and factors that favor or hinder the formation, development, and decline of various kinds of society; significance of biological, cultural, linguistic, intellectual, political, social, and economic elements for large-scale historical development. HIST 7101 - Studies Global History (3) HIST 7120 - Studies English History (3) HIST 7160 - Studies Russian Hist (3) HIST 7210 - Studies Latin Am Hist (3) HIST 7270 - Studies Near East Hist (3) HIST 7272 - Historiography Mod Middle East (3) This seminar is designed to introduce graduate students to some of the most important ideas and debates in the field of modern Middle Eastern history (18th century to the present) and place those ideas and debates within the context of general historiographic trends. HIST 7280 - Africa (3) HIST 7290 - Studies Asian History (3) HIST 7310 - Ancient Historiography (3) Examines scholarship of ancient history and controversial problems in the field with a view to developing a more sound historical methodology for reconstructing ancient history; usually focuses on Egypt, but may address another area of ancient history. May be repeated when focus area changes. HIST 7320 - Studies Ancient Hist (3) HIST 7370 - Studies Medv/Renai Hist (3) HIST 7400 - Studies Early Mod Hist (3) HIST 7430 - European Historiography (3) Introduction to major themes, methodologies, and scholarly debates in European history; explores historiographic flashpoints represented in major texts that constitute key points of reference for scholars; usually focuses on Modern Europe, but may address other periods of European history. May be repeated when focus area changes. HIST 7440 - Modern Europe (3) HIST 7601 - US Historiography to 1877 (3) Reading seminar in early US history that explores historiographical debates and in-depth examinations of major themes and periods in American history to 1877. HIST 7602 - US Historiography after 1877 (3) Reading seminar in modern US history that explores historiographical debates and in-depth examinations of major themes and periods in American history from 1877 to the present. HIST 7650 - Studies U S Hist To 1877 (3) HIST 7680 - Studies U S After 1877 (3) HIST 7880 - Af Amer Historiography to 1800 (3) Introduces some of the most recent as well as standard scholarship on African American history before 1800; discussion of assigned core readings supported by written reports. HIST 7881 - Af Amer Historiography: 19 ce (3) Introduces some of the most recent as well as standard scholarship on 19th century African American history; discussion of assigned core readings supported by written reports. HIST 7882 - Af Amer Historiography: 20ce (3) Introduces some of the most recent as well as standard scholarship on African American history before 1800; discussion of assigned core readings supported by written reports. HIST 7883 - Studies African Am Hist (3) HIST 7884 - Af Amer History and Profession (3) Introduction to basic philosophical problems of recreating and understanding the African American past, to history of historical writing by African Americans and other scholars, and to practical skills needed by professional historians in this field. HIST 7980 - Thematic Studies Amer (3) HIST 7991 - Independent Readings (1-12) Arranged on an individual basis for history students only. May be repeated. NOTE: History majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. HIST 7996 - Thesis (1-6) The student must write and defend satisfactorily a thesis on a subject approved by the major professor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. HIST 8011 - Phil & Theory of History (3) Speculative philosophy of history and recent problems in analytical philosophy of history. HIST 8012 - Directed Readings (1-3) Arranged on an individual basis between a student and a particular instructor, whose permission is required. Master's students may take a maximum of 3 hours (6 by petition), PhD students a maximum of 6 hours (12 by petition). Grades of A-F, or I will be given. HIST 8023 - Practicum in History (3) Participation in a fieldwork project or other project supervised by an approval authority (University of Memphis faculty or directors from other institutions). Class is pass/fail and does not count toward the degree. HIST 8024 - Fieldwork in History (3) Preparation for, participation in, and writing about a fieldwork or other research project supervised by an approved authority (UM faculty or directors from other institutions). Project planning such as grant writing and budgeting, and other assignments related to the project?s goals are required. HIST 8025 - Principles&Practices Hist Ed (3) Explores the principles of history education, goals of student learning, and how to transform our classrooms into the kind active intellectual space that promotes those intellectual, analytical, and critical skills that will best prepare our students for life beyond the academy. Required for teaching assistants. HIST 8060 - Women/Gender Historiography (3) Theory and historiography of the field using major theoretical writings, from American and non-American perspectives, and from racially different viewpoints. HIST 8061 - Studies Women/Gender Hist (3) May be repeated when the content varies. HIST 8070 - Research Seminar (1-3) Emphasis on original research and writing in topics drawn from the fields generally covered by the Studies courses. May be repeated for credit when topic varies. PREREQUISITE: One 7/8000-level historiography course in any field. HIST 8100 - Global Historiography (3) Formation, development, and importance of global/ subglobal systems over time, societal interactions, and factors that favor or hinder the formation, development, and decline of various kinds of society; significance of biological, cultural, linguistic, intellectual, political, social, and economic elements for large-scale historical development. HIST 8101 - Studies Global History (3) HIST 8120 - Studies English History (3) HIST 8160 - Studies Russian Hist (3) HIST 8210 - Studies Latin Am Hist (3) HIST 8270 - Studies Near East Hist (3) HIST 8272 - Historiography Mod Middle East (3) This seminar is designed to introduce graduate students to some of the most important ideas and debates in the field of modern Middle Eastern history (18th century to the present) and place those ideas and debates within the context of general historiographic trends. HIST 8280 - Africa (3) HIST 8290 - Studies Asian History (3) HIST 8310 - Ancient Historiography (3) Examines scholarship of ancient history and controversial problems in the field with a view to developing a more sound historical methodology for reconstructing ancient history; usually focuses on Egypt, but may address another area of ancient history. May be repeated when focus area changes. HIST 8320 - Studies Ancient Hist (3) HIST 8370 - Studies Medv/Renai Hist (3) HIST 8400 - Studies Early Mod Hist (3) HIST 8430 - European Historiography (3) Introduction to major themes, methodologies, and scholarly debates in European history; explores historiographic flashpoints represented in major texts that constitute key points of reference for scholars; usually focuses on Modern Europe, but may address other periods of European history. May be repeated when focus area changes. HIST 8440 - Modern Europe (3) HIST 8601 - US Historiography to 1877 (3) Reading seminar in early US history that explores historiographical debates and in-depth examinations of major themes and periods in American history to 1877. HIST 8602 - US Historiography after 1877 (3) Reading seminar in modern US history that explores historiographical debates and in-depth examinations of major themes and periods in American history from 1877 to the present. HIST 8650 - Studies U S Hist To 1877 (3) HIST 8680 - Studies U S After 1877 (3) HIST 8880 - Af Amer Historiography to 1800 (3) Introduces some of the most recent as well as standard scholarship on African American history before 1800; discussion of assigned core readings supported by written reports. HIST 8881 - Af Amer Historiography: 19 ce (3) Introduces some of the most recent as well as standard scholarship on 19th century African American history; discussion of assigned core readings supported by written reports. HIST 8882 - Af Amer Historiography: 20ce (3) Introduces some of the most recent as well as standard scholarship on African American history before 1800; discussion of assigned core readings supported by written reports. HIST 8883 - Studies African Am Hist (3) HIST 8884 - Af Amer History and Profession (3) Introduction to basic philosophical problems of recreating and understanding the African American past, to history of historical writing by African Americans and other scholars, and to practical skills needed by professional historians in this field. HIST 8980 - Thematic Studies Amer (3) HIST 8990 - Reading for/Writing Comps (1-12) Arranged on an individual basis for history students only. May be taken only at the end of coursework to fulfill the requirements for the PhD. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. HIST 8991 - Independent Readings (1-12) Arranged on an individual basis for history students only. May be repeated. NOTE: History majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. HIST 9000 - Doctorl Dissertation (1-12) No more than 12 hours may count toward the degree. PREREQUISITE: Admission to candidacy.Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .