#http://www.memphis.edu/legal/what.php
What Do I Do If - Legal Counsel - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Office of Legal Counsel About Contracts Immigration Forms Policies Resources Home Legal Counsel What Do I Do If What Do I Do If Subpoena: I have been subpoenaed to be a witness. What should I do? Subpoena For Documents: I have received a subpoena to turn over documents (subpoena duces tecum) relating to University business. What should I do? Service of a Lawsuit: Someone is asking me to accept service of a lawsuit? What should I do? Subpoena regarding a Criminal Action: What do I do with a subpoena regarding a criminal action? Legal Issues Regarding The University Of Memphis: If a lawyer calls me about a case or issue involving the University, what should I do? Discrimination: What should I do if I think I’ve been discriminated against? Sexual Harassment: What should I do if I supervise an employee who claims she/he is being harassed, but I don’t know if it is sexual harassment? Automobile Accident: I was involved in a car accident on campus. What should I do? Filing a Claim for Injury and/or Property Damage: I suffered an injury and/or property damage on the campus. How do I file a claim against the University? Safety Concerns: I’m concerned for my personal safety on campus. What do I do? Reporting Crime : I witnessed a crime on campus and I want to report the crime but remain anonymous. What should I do? Theft : Something has been stolen from me while I was on campus. What should I do? Subpoena: I have been subpoenaed to be a witness. What should I do? If you have been subpoenaed in connection with activities at the University, please contact the Office of Legal Counsel. If you have been subpoenaed in connection with personal activities, consult your personal attorney. Back to top Subpoena For Documents: I have received a subpoena to turn over documents (subpoena duces tecum) relating to University business. What should I do? Except as to subpoenas handled regularly by Human Resource, Payroll and the Registrar’s Office (which should be referred directly to those offices or entities), you should not turn over documents relating to the University without first consulting with the Office of Legal Counsel. You should, however, insure that any documents described in the subpoena are maintained for possible production. If you or your office has University documents responsive to the subpoena, you should immediately contact the Office of Legal Counsel and forward them a copy of the subpoena and documents. Back to top Service of a Lawsuit: Someone is asking me to accept service of a lawsuit? What should I do? Only the State Attorney General’s Office is authorized to accept service of a lawsuit on behalf of the University. The State Attorney General is located at: State of Tennessee Office of Attorney General 425 Fifth Avenue, 2nd Floor Nashville, Tennessee 37243 (615) 741-3491 No one else should accept service of a lawsuit on behalf of the University. If you are being named individually (not in your official capacity) in a lawsuit as a defendant or respondent, you can accept service on your own behalf. If the lawsuit involves the University in any way (even if it was not named as a defendant or respondent or if you were not served on its behalf), please transmit a copy of the complaint and summons to the Office of Legal Counsel immediately. If the lawsuit does not have anything to do with the University, you may want to consult a personal attorney. Back to top Subpoena regarding a Criminal Action: What do I do with a subpoena regarding a criminal action? Such subpoenas often require the attendance of an individual to testify in court, before a Grand Jury, or other legally empowered body. If a subpoena is received and you are the named individual, you must accept. Notify the Office of Legal Counsel if the subject matter of the testimony will be related to your position with the University of if TBR or the University is involved. Advise your supervisor. If you have any questions, refer the questions to the Office of Legal Counsel. Back to top Legal Issues Regarding The University Of Memphis: If a lawyer calls me about a case or issue involving the University, what should I do? Refer them to the Office of Legal Counsel and notify the Office of Legal Counsel of the contact. Back to top Discrimination: What should I do if I think I’ve been discriminated against? If you are an employee, consider talking with your supervisor. If you are dissatisfied or are uncomfortable, students and employees may contact the Affirmative Action Office (AAO) at (901) 678-2713 or visit the office at 156 Administration Building. The AAO staff can discuss your concerns, help you clarify your allegations and work through various alternatives to resolve the matter. If you want to file a formal complaint with the University, the AAO staff will investigate and make a recommendation as to whether discrimination occurred, along with potential corrective action. Back to top Sexual Harassment: What should I do if I supervise an employee who claims she/he is being harassed, but I don’t know if it is sexual harassment? Staff from the Office of Legal Counsel, the Affirmative Action Office or Human Resource Department can work with supervisors and administrators to review actions in light of claims of harassment and to respond to those complaints. It is important to take such allegations seriously and insure that they are addressed. Harassment is reprehensible and will not be tolerated by the University. The University of Memphis strives to provide a place of work and study free of sexual harassment, intimidation, or exploitation. It is expected that students, faculty and staff will treat each other with respect. Back to top Automobile Accident: I was involved in a car accident on campus. What should I do? You should report the accident to Police Services at 678-4357. Back to top Filing a Claim for Injury and/or Property Damage: I suffered an injury and/or property damage on the campus. How do I file a claim against the University? Anyone wishing to file a claim for injury or property damages against The University of Memphis where the University was negligent must do so through the Tennessee Claims Commission, which was established for the purpose of processing personal injury and property damage against agencies of the state of Tennessee including The University of Memphis. Any and all claims for negligence will be handled by claims examiners working through the Division of Claims Administration in Nashville. Claim packets, which contain a claim form as well as copies of the applicable state law describing the Claims Commission and the procedure for filing claims, are available at notice of claim or in the Office of Legal Counsel, 201 Administration Building. For most claims based in negligence, there is a statute of limitations for submitting a claim to the Tennessee Claims Commission of one (1) year from the date of the accident. Back to top Safety Concerns: I’m concerned for my personal safety on campus. What do I do? If there is an immediate threat to your safety or the safety of others, you should immediately call Police Services at 678-4357 or 911. For non-emergencies, please call Police Services at 678-3848. If you need a personal escort on campus in the evening, contact the Tiger Patrol at 678-4663. Back to top Reporting Crime : I witnessed a crime on campus and I want to report the crime but remain anonymous. What should I do? You are encouraged to report any crime to Police Services at 678-4357. If you want to maintain anonymity, you may report the crime by going to click on forms, and then click on silent witness report. Back to top Theft : Something has been stolen from me while I was on campus. What should I do? Please report the loss to Police Services at 678-3848. Back to top Contact Us For more information about the Office of Legal Counsel and the services provided What To Do If... Common questions regarding legal matters Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .