#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/acad_reg/standards.php
Academic Standards - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Academic Regulations Academic Standards Academic Standards Grades and Quality Points At the end of each session, instructors report to the Office of the Registrar the standing of all students in their classes. The grade of a student in any course is determined by class standing and examination, combined in such proportion as the instructor in charge of the course may decide. The instructor’s grading scale will be provided to students on the course syllabus. The instructor’s evaluation of the student’s work is expressed by the following grades which are converted to quality points for the purpose of averaging grades. Grade Quality Points A+ 4.00 A 4.00 A- 3.84 B+ 3.33 B 3.00 B- 2.67 C+ 2.33 C 2.00 C- 1.67 D+ 1.33 D 1.00 F 0.00 W (Withdrew) 0.00 I (Incomplete) 0.00 NR, None Reported 0.00 NC, No Credit 0.00 *IP, In Progress 0.00 *S, Satisfactory 0.00 *U, Unsatisfactory 0.00 T (see below) 0.00 AU, Audit 0.00 CR, Credit 0.00 *Grades used to postpone or suspend course completion include “I” (Incomplete), “IP” (In Progress), and “W” (Withdrawn). Independent studies courses, student teaching, workshops, practical, and internships should be graded “A-F, IP” or “S/U, IP.” A grade of “S,” “U,” or “IP” does not carry any quality points and is not included in computing GPA. All courses for which the student is registered are recorded as passed (with a letter grade), “T”, failed, dropped, withdrew, audit, credit, no credit, satisfactory, unsatisfactory, or incomplete. In no case is credit allowed in any course for which the student is not properly registered. Grade of Incomplete: The grade of "I" (Incomplete) may be assigned by the faculty member in any course in which the student is unable to complete the work due to extraordinary events beyond the student’s control that are acceptable to the faculty member. The “I” may not be used to extend the term for students who complete the course with an unsatisfactory grade. Unless the student completes the requirements for removal of "I" within 45 days from the end of the semester or summer term in which it was received (see University Calendar), the "I" will be changed to "F," whether or not the student is enrolled. The faculty member, with the approval of the department chair, may grant up to a 45-day extension if sufficient extenuating circumstances exist. At the end of the extension period, the “I” will automatically revert to “F” if the student has not completed the requirements. The student will be certified for graduation only when all requirements are met, including the removal of “I” grades. For students who have an “I” in a course required to fulfill degree requirements in the semester in which they expect to graduate, the certification process and graduation will automatically be deferred to the next term. In Progress: In courses with “In Progress” (IP) grading, faculty members may assign “IP” to extend the time permitted for completion of research or course requirements. A student awarded an “IP” grade must re-enroll in the course for the same number of hours to complete the work. The final grade will be submitted by the faculty member at the end of the term in which the work is completed. This should be the semester following the “IP” grade. Grade Changes: Grades properly issued in a course by the faculty member of record will not be altered except when an error was made in computation or reporting or as a result of a formal grade appeal. A grade other than "I" may not be changed as a result of additional work after a grade has been submitted to the Office of the Registrar. The Grade Appeals procedure is described below. “T" Grade: The "T" grade allows students to complete independent studies courses in variable time periods that might exceed a regular enrollment period. The following procedure governs the use of the "T" grade: 1. Prior to the registration period, the faculty member obtains approval of the department chair and dean to use the "T" grade in a course(s). 2. The dean notifies the Office of the Registrar of courses for which the "T" grade may be awarded. 3. At the end of the regular term, the faculty member has the following options: a. Award grades A-F. b. Award an "I" grade if the faculty member feels that the work can be completed in 45 days. (If an "I" grade is awarded, a roster with the student's name on it will be sent to the faculty member during the 45-day period. The faculty member must record either “A” to “F” for the "T" grade to prevent an automatic assignment of "F.") c. Award a "T" grade. If the "T" grade is awarded, the student must re-register for the course in order to earn credit. The "T" grade is not used in the computation of GPA. Grade Reports Current semester grades may be obtained on Student Self Service. Grades are normally available by the Thursday after the last day of the exam period for the session. Withholding of Grade Reports The University is required by State law to withhold grade reports, transcripts and diplomas from students who have outstanding financial obligations to the University. When financial obligations have been resolved, students may obtain their grades on Student Self Service. Repetition of Courses A student may repeat most courses in an attempt to improve the grade previously earned. There are some courses that may not be repeated for this purpose. Information concerning these courses may be obtained from the office of the chair of the department in which the course is offered. In some degree and major programs, there are restrictions on course repetitions even after drops or withdrawals. The student should always check with the major advisor before enrolling in a course a second or subsequent time(s). The University is not obligated to allow substitutes for repetition of courses, which have been deleted from the curriculum. Credit by examination may not be used for the purpose of improving a grade previously earned in a course taken for credit. Grades earned in the second and each subsequent attempt will count towards the student's GPA. However, only earned hours from the final attempt are counted in the cumulative earned hours. A student may not attempt the same course more than three times. Exceptions to this policy will be granted only on appeal to the dean of the college in which the course is offered. The record will continue to reflect grades for all attempts of repeated courses with the appropriate repeat notations. Courses repeated after a degree is awarded may not be used to replace grades earned prior to the awarding of the degree. The Office of the Registrar's website gives detail information on how GPA and earned hours are computed on courses that have been repeated. This page can be accessed here . Audit Courses Students who are admitted to the University of Memphis may register to audit a course with the prior approval of the instructor and the department chair. Students enrolling on an audit basis do not receive academic credit for that course. Particularly in high-demand courses, departments should make sure that students who need these courses for degree credit can be accommodated before they issue permits for audits. Audits should not be used simply as a vehicle for obtaining access to laboratory or studio facilities. Auditors are not required to take examinations and do not receive a regular letter grade. There should be a precise agreement between the student and the instructor as to the extent and nature of the student participation in the course, including class discussions, projects, and readings. Students auditing a course will receive “AU” (Audit) on the transcript only if they have attended regularly and participated according to the prior agreement with the instructor. A student may not change from a grade point to an audit or from an audit to a grade point basis after the last day to add classes for that session. Any questions concerning this policy should be referred to the colleges. Fees for audits will be assessed on the same basis as fees for credit courses. Credit/No-Credit Courses The University, wishing to encourage students to broaden their range of interest without jeopardizing their grades, allows students who have earned at least 60 semester hours with a minimum grade point average of 3.0 to enroll in credit/no-credit courses. For this purpose, students may take up to 8 hours of coursework on a credit/no credit basis provided that these courses are unrestricted electives. Specifically excluded are general education, college, major and degree requirements and requirements for a minor. A student taking a course on a credit/no-credit basis must meet the prerequisites for that course as set forth in the Catalog, or have permission of the instructor. • Neither a credit nor a no-credit grade is counted in a student's grade point average, but, like all other grades, is entered on the permanent record. • Credit (CR) grade is given for “C-” or better work on the traditional grading scale and no-credit (NC) is given for less than “C-” work. • The student only receives credit in the course if credit (C- or better) is received. • A student may not repeat a course for credit/no-credit if the student received a conventional grade (A-F or S). Students who transfer from one college to another should be aware that credit/no-credit hours may be accepted in one college and not in another. In every instance, approval to register for a course on a credit/no-credit basis must be obtained from the advisor and the dean of the student's degree-granting college prior to registration for that class. With approval, a student who registers for a course on a credit/no-credit basis may change the registration to a letter grade point basis only during the add period, and a student who registers for a course on a letter grade point basis may change the registration to a credit/no-credit basis only during the add period for the term or session of the course. The student who successfully completes a credit/no-credit course will receive the appropriate number of hours as credit toward graduation. These hours will not be used in the computation of the grade point average. Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .