#http://www.memphis.edu/currproc/elements.php
Elements of Course - Curricular Procedures Handbook - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Curricular Procedures Handbook Program Structure Course Related Terms Elements of Course Description Home Curricular Procedures Handbook Elements of Course Elements of Course Descriptions ELEMENTS OF COURSE DESCRIPTION 1 ANTH 2 4002- 3 6002. 4 Museum Operation. 5 (3). 6 (3050). 7 (Same as ANTH 4002). 8 Basic aspects of museum organization, management, exhibit planning and execution, and maintenance of collections and records. 9 Two lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. 10 PREREQUISITE: ART 3090. 11 COREREQUISITE: ART 4001. 12 [G] 13 (S/U) 1 Subject Area 2 Course number/level 3 6000 level cognate 4 Course title 5 Credit hours 6 Former course number 7 Cross listing 8 Course description 9 Lecture/laboratory description 10 Prerequisite 11 Corequisite 12 General Education Program designation* 13 Special grading, which can include “S/U”, “S,U, I”, “A-F, IP” * [G] = General Education Program Course Close Out When a course is no longer appropriate or needed for the department's programs or when there is no enrollment or faculty expertise available, a request should be made to close out the course. In the course inventory, the course will be inactivated as of the summer after approval. See also Course Retention below. Course Retention If a course has not been taught during the time specified in the curricular cycle (four years for undergraduate courses and six years for graduate courses), the appropriate department will be notified to decide whether it should be retained or closed out in the course inventory and online Catalog A list of courses not taught in the specific time will be sent to the departments. The departments indicate course close out or retention on the list and submit it during the normal curricular revision process. Special Grading If a grading system other than A-F is to be used for a course, the request to do so must be included as part of the curricular request when initiating a new course and can only be changed from the standard grading system for an existing course through the regular curricular procedures. Notation of the special grading must be included in the course description. At the undergraduate level, special grading is usually limited to such courses as practice teaching, internships, workshops, special problems courses, etc. At the graduate level, special grading is used for the same types of courses as well as practica, theses, dissertations, etc.: † CRPL 7996. Thesis. (1-6). Research and ... ( S/U ) REPEATABILITY TO IMPROVE COURSE GRADE: Most undergraduate courses may be repeated in order to improve a former grade. In the few cases where they may not (Special Topics, individual study, etc. where the content varies from semester to semester), a notation to that effect must be included with the course description. Some graduate courses may be repeated in order to earn a higher grade only if the earned grade was lower than a "B" (3.0). No course may be repeated more than once to improve the grade: CRPL 4991. Independent Study. (1-3). Individual research and ... This course may not be repeated for the purpose of improving a previous grade. UofM Levels of Curricular Approval Instructional Method and Schedule Type TBR Approval Forms Curricular Forms Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .