#http://www.memphis.edu/idt/ms_app_checklist.php
M.S. Application Checklist - IDT - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Instructional Design &amp; Technology Programs IDT Courses Faculty Contact Us Resources Home IDT M.S. Application Checklist IDT Master's Degree Admissions Checklist Admission to a masters program in IDT requires acceptance by both The University of Memphis Graduate School and the ICL Department; admission to the Graduate School and admission to a specific ICL graduate program are separate procedures. STEP 1. Take the GRE. Take the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) . You may obtain information about test times and preparation from The University of Memphis Testing Center, 678-2428. (Contact the ICL Department for graduate admission test score standards.) &gt;&gt; Questions? Contact The University of Memphis Testing Center at 678-2428. STEP 2. Complete the Graduate Admissions application. Complete and submit the online Graduate Admissions application form, which includes: an official report of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) score (verbal, quantitative, and writing) and official transcripts of undergraduate and graduate study (see Step 3). Important - Ensure you have entered the following information correctly, as failure to do so may result in a delay of the application process: Major: Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Concentration: Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Applicants whose native language is other than English must also submit a copy of their scores on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). See Office of Admission website for the application form and deadlines. &gt;&gt; Questions? Contact Graduate Admissions at 901-678-2911 or graduateadmissions@memphis.edu STEP 3. Send transcripts to Graduate Admissions. Have official transcripts for all previous graduate course work sent to the Graduate Admissions Office . Visit the Apply to Graduate School page for more information about the application process. This includes all steps for applying as well as an application checklist of important items according to the Graduate School’s application process. While some items for the Graduate School application process and the ICL departmental application process may overlap, please note that each of these are separate application procedures. If you are applying as an international graduate student, please also see Information for International Students . &gt;&gt; Questions? Contact Graduate Admissions at 901-678-2911 or graduateadmissions@memphis.edu STEP 4. Complete the ICL Dept. Application . Print and complete the ICL application and send to Stormey Warren in Ball Hall 215. Your application should also include 2 sealed letters of recommendation on letterhead or emailed directly to Stormey Warren (shutsell@memphis.edu). &gt;&gt; Questions? Contact Shelby Tate at 901-678-4861 or Icl-graduate-studies@memphis.edu. Prospective students should check with the department program coordinator of the program to which they are applying for specific deadlines and requirements. Applicants should allow a reasonable amount of time for necessary documents to be processed by the degree program and the Graduate School (approximately four to six weeks). International applicants should allow at least four months for the application process. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure consideration. Contact the ICL department about any requirements and deadlines . If you have previously attended The University of Memphis Graduate School and have not been enrolled for a semester, excluding summer, you must apply for readmission. Readmission may subject the student to all of the rules, prerequisites, and degree requirements listed in the current Graduate Catalog. Submission of an application for readmission does not ensure acceptance. Readmission may be denied or conditions may be imposed on the student. (Contact the Graduate Office of Admissions and follow the specified procedures: Wilder Tower, 678-2111 or Apply Now GSA Graduation Info Tuition Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/11/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .