#http://umwa.memphis.edu/umpolicies/2a1203a.html
Claim for Allowance for Injuries or Death of University Employees THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS OPERATING PROCEDURES SUBJECT: Claim for Allowance for Injuries or Death of University Employees PROCEDURE NO.: 2A:12:03A DATE: January 1, 1985 SUPERSEDES PROCEDURE NO.: 2A:12:03A DATED: June 17, 1982 GENERAL The University of Memphis is an agency of the State, and, as such, is bound by the State laws governing allowances for injuries and death of employees received in the line of duty. The Tennessee Claims Commission has been established by Tennessee Code Annotated Title 9, Chapter 8, Part 3, to determine all monetary claims against the state of Tennessee. In addition, the Division of Claims Administration was established by Tennessee Code Annotated Title 9, Chapter 8, Part 4, to initially receive and handle claims. The Division must investigate and make every effort to act upon a claim within ninety (90) days of receipt of the claim. Please note that a claim is barred unless notice is given within one (1) year of the occurrence from which the claim arises. PROCEDURES FOR FILING CLAIMS Employees or dependents of deceased employees who desire to file a claim for allowance for injuries or death in the line of duty and in the course of official employment should contact the Safety Services Office. This office shall supply the concerned individual with the necessary forms and directions for filing a claim. If desired, the Safety Services Office shall also assist the individual in preparing the forms and securing physician's statement, etc.; however, it shall be the individual's responsibility for actually forwarding the claim and supportive documents to the Division of Claims Administration. The Safety Services Office shall be responsible for complying with requests for reports, information or documents by the Tennessee Claims Commission and/or Division of Claims Administration. UNIVERSITY INVESTIGATION In conjunction with the requirements and responsibilities of the Safety Services Office under The U of M Operating Procedure No. 2D:00:l0A (Occupational Safety and Health Programs), that office shall conduct an investigation of the claim. Based upon the findings of the investigations and consultation with other appropriate University officials, the University shall make a determination to either support the claim, oppose such claim, or maintain a neutral position thereon. Assistance by the Safety Services Office in preparing claim forms, etc., shall in no way be deemed to mean the University supports the claim as well- founded and valid.