#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/programs/
Programs - FCBE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty &amp; Staff Research News Programs Departments School of Accountancy Department of Economics Department of Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate Department of Management Department of Business Information &amp; Technology Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management MBA Programs Introduction Customer-Driven MBA Executive MBA International MBA Online MBA Professional MBA Specialized Master's Programs Introduction MS in Accounting MSBA in Business Information &amp; Technology MSBA in Economics MSBA in Finance Centers &amp; Institutes Doctoral Programs Home FCBE Programs Academic Programs At the Fogelman College of Business and Economics, we offer a variety of undergraduate and graduate degree programs. They are offered in both formats--traditional classroom setting, day or evening, and online formats. Now, you can find the area of study that best suits your schedule, your lifestyle, and your goals. We are accredited by the AACSB – the gold standard in business schools achievement, an honor earned by less than 5% of business schools world-wide. Undergraduate Programs Our undergraduate degree programs provide a learning environment that fosters scholarship, intellectual curiosity, and collegiality. Our mission is to prepare students for meaningful and responsible participation in a broad range of career opportunities in business, government, and institutional settings, or for advanced professional or graduate education. We are dedicated to helping students acquire the competencies and attitudes for a lifetime of learning as they face the challenges of the future. FCBE is composed of six different departments: School of Accountancy Department of Business Information &amp; Technology (Formerly MIS) Department of Economics Department of Finance, Insurance, &amp; Real Estate Department of Management Department of Marketing &amp; Supply Chain Management FCBE provides multiple options of majors and minors . MBA Programs We are proud to provide six different tracks to earn a MBA degree all of which are designed to meet your unique needs. Professional MBA - Flexible, part-time program composed of evening classes to accommodate full-time, working professionals. Online MBA - Award-winning, online program, designed for professionals whose demanding schedules make it difficult to attend classes in person. International MBA * - 17-month, cohort-based program that is designed for aspiring global executives; provides the opportunity to study abroad and complete an overseas internship. Customer-Driven MBA - Unique, 17-month, cohort-based, fully funded program with internships at partnering global, Fortune 500 companies. Entrepreneurship MBA - 17-month, cohort-based program that is designed for aspiring entrepreneurs and designed to help you launch your own business. Executive MBA - Intensive, 17-month program focused on leadership development, suited for professionals with five years of management experience. *Graduates of the IMBA program receive an International MBA degree. Graduates of all the other MBA tracks earn a Master of Business Administration degree. Specialized Master's Programs At the Fogelman College, we also offer four specialized master's degrees for students wanting to gain advanced knowledge in a particular field. Unlike a MBA degree, which is a general master's degree, these programs allow you the opportunity to concentrate your studies in chosen area of specialty. MA in Economics MS in Accounting MSBA in Business Information &amp; Technology (formerly MIS) MSBA in Finance Doctoral Programs The Ph.D. program at the Fogelman College offers a wide variety of opportunities for students interested in furthering their graduate education. The Doctor of Philosophy degree in Business Administration is a basic requirement for individuals interested in academic careers at many colleges and universities. Earn a Ph.D. in any of our six areas of study. Centers &amp; Institutes FCBE hosts various kinds of centers &amp; institutes including Sparks Bureau of Business and Economic Research, The Systems Testing Excellence Program, Memphis CIBER, The Center for Economic Education, Center for Supply Chain Management, The Center for Healthcare Economics. Important Contacts Undergraduate Student Services Office; 901.678.2855 fcbeadvising@memphis.edu Graduate Student Services Office; 901.678.3721 fcbegp@memphis.edu Ph.D. Admissions &amp; Retention Coordinator's Office; 901.678.5250 fcbephd@memphis.edu Programs Departments School of Accountancy Department of Economics Department of Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate Department of Management Department of Business Information &amp; Technology Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management MBA Programs Introduction Customer-Driven MBA Executive MBA International MBA Online MBA Professional MBA Specialized Master's Programs Introduction MS in Accounting MSBA in Business Information &amp; Technology MSBA in Economics MSBA in Finance Centers &amp; Institutes Doctoral Programs Apply to our Undergraduate Programs &gt; Enroll at the university and engage yourself with our six different departments, student enrichment, and more. Apply to our Masters Programs &gt; Earn your degree with one of our six MBA tracks or with one of our four specialized Masters programs! Apply to our Doctoral Programs &gt; Interested in a Ph.D.? Start the journey towards your Ph.D. here! Contact Us &gt; Have questions? Call or email today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .