#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/newsletters/dec2014fulledition.pdf
Monthly Newsletter University of Memphis Department of Social Work Dr. Steven Soifer , Chair of the Department of Social Work, recently published a book: Community Economic Development in Social Work (cover pictured below). Published by Columbia University Press. Community economic development (CED) is an increasingly essential factor in the revitalization of low - to moderate - in come communities. This cutting - edge text explores the inter s ection of CED and social work practice, which both focus on the well - being of indigent communities and the empowerment of individuals and the communities in which they live. Thank you for reading the December/January edition of the Social Work newsletter! If you win an award, start a study, want to promote a community event for social workers or other individuals, or anything else you feel is relevant, please send the informat ion to Dr. Susan Elswick at selswick@memphis.edu . Thank you and happy holidays! Catherine Clubb - Brown, Newsletter Manager Psych Topics Page 2 Job Openings Page 3 Read about current job openings in the Memphis area Psych Topics Page 4 Learn more about the benefits of mindful eating December 2014 /January 2015 Learn more about Seasonal Affective Disorder and how to combat it 2 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work November 2014 Current Topics in the Psych Field Feeling sad this winter ? It may just be that time of the year. Virginia Woolf, Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) is a type of depression that is related to the changes in seasons. The symptoms of SAD commonly begin in the fall and continue through the winter months. Symptoms feel ing in arms or legs, oversleeping, overeating, drop in libido. It is normal to feel down from time to time, but it you feel depressed for multiple days at a time and Although the exact cause of SAD is unknown, one important factor seems to be sunlight, or lack thereof. The decrease of sunlight in fall and winter might disrupt our biological clocks, leading to feelings of depression. 5 remedies for SAD: 1) Get outside and soak up the sun as much as you can. Even on cold and cloudy days outdoor light can help. Bundle up and take a long morning walk this is most effective within the first two hours of waking. 2) Make your environment sunnier and brighter. Open the blinds during the day and sit near 3) Try a new centering activity yoga, meditation, massage. Stretching, breathing, and the power of the human touch are often underrated, but have immens e healing influence. 4) Get out of the darkness for a while by taking a trip to a warm, sunny locale. 5) Schedule social activities throughout the winter. When you feel depressed, social engagement can be daunting, but social support and friendship are some o f the best ways to curb depression and loneliness. Remember, the dark months of winter can seem foreboding, but it will be spring before you know it. Albert Camus Add itional resources: - conditions/seasonal - affective - disorder/basics/definition/con - 20021047 3 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work November 2014 Additional Job Postings Are you a new graduate seeking employment? Looking for a new job within the social work field? current job postings w hen you visit the Career Center for the Department of Social Work. Tons of great information is just a click away! Visit the Career Center for the Department of Social Work today at . Job Openings Check out these career opportunities in the greater Memphis area Daybreak Treatment Center is a free standing partial hospitalization program dedicated to child and adolescent treatment utilizing Dialectical Behavior Therapy (DBT). Established in 1992, the facility is Tennessee State licensed, accredited by the Joint Commission and provides a T ennessee State approved educational program. Daybreak currently has many positions open and is recruiting health care professionals to join their team. A pplicants would be expected to take clients ranging in age from 8 to 18. These positions are perma nent part - time and can be structured on a contractual or employee based model. Reimbursement, compensation and benefits are also negotiable based on training, experience and professional goals Application materials must include: 1. Cover letter outlining training and clinical experience with children and/or teens; a statement of preference for work with children, adolescents or both; a description of education, training and clinical experience in Cognitive Behavior and/or Dialectical Behavior Therapy; you r career interests, and goals fo r the next three years. 2. Curriculum vitae 3. Two letters of recommendation from individuals - preferably supervisors - familiar with your clinical work 4. A clinical work sample, such as an assessment report, case formulat ion, treatment plan, publication, etc. Materials can be submitted to Dr. Garry Del Conte, Psy.D. (drd@daybreaktreatment.com) Incomplete or partial submissions will not be considered. Applications will be accepted until the positions are filled. For additional program information visit their website : . 4 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work November 2014 Current Topics in the Psych Field Eat mindfully (and with gratitude) this holiday season. in a particular way; on purpose, in the present moment, and Jon Kabat - Zinn Mindfulness is an essential element of Buddhist practice which is often employed in psychology to alleviate troubling conditions such as obsessive - compulsive disorder and anxiety, and to aid in the prevention of drug relapse and depression. Mindfulness is all about being aware of your thoughts, emotions, and physical sensations in the present moment. With practice, you learn to free yourself of negative, habitual patterns of thinking, feel ing, and acting. Mindful eating brings the principles of mindfulness to the dinner table. When we are purposefully aware of our eating we chew slowly, deliberately noticing the sensations and our responses to those sensations. We eat quietly. We notice o ur mind wandering and we purposefully bring our attention back to the meal. With practice, we become aware of hunger and satiety and allow our bodies to dictate when we should eat and when we should stop. Emotional eating and binge eating are leading cau ses of obesity. Mindfulness at the dinner table combats those triggers. It takes 20 minutes from the time you start eating for your brain to send out signals of fullness. This holiday season eat slowly. Enjoy the company around the table. Put down your f ork between bites and share stories. Slowing down over a holiday meal gives your body time to feel full and your spirit time to be thankful. Additional resources: - eating - as - food - for - thought.html?pagewanted =all Catherine Clubb - Brown MSW Student/Newsletter Manager Dr. Susan Elswick Newsletter Coordinator/Editor University of Memphis Department of Social Work Please s end submissions to the Newsle tter Coordinator/Editor: Dr. Susan Elswick Assistant Professor/Director of MSW Field Placement University of Memphis Department of Social Work 115 McCord Hall Memphis, TN 38152 selswick@memphis.edu 901 - 678 - 4722 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work December/January 2014 The subject - specialist librarian for Social Work is Parveen Rustomfram. Contact her at prstmfrm@memphis.edu .