#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/newsletters/march2015fullnewsletter.pdf
Monthly Newsletter University of Memphis Department of Social Work Happy spring! We might have seen a lot of snow so far this month, but spring flowers are just around the corner! If you win an award, start a study, want to promote a community event for social workers or other individuals, or anything else you feel is relevant, please send the information to Dr. Susan Elswick at selswick@memphis.edu . Thank you! Catherine Clubb - Brown, Newsletter Manager For students Page 2 Spotlights Page 3 Read about the accomplishments of our social work faculty and students Upcoming events Page 4 - 5 Learn about upcoming events and opportunities for social workers March 2015 Complete the form for your year 2 field placement Job Postings Are you a new graduate seeking employment? Looking for new job within the social work field? many local and current job postings when you visit the Career Center for the Department of Social Work. Tons of great information is just a click away! Visit the Career Center fo r the Department of Social Work today at dpress.com/ 2 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work March 2015 Student of the Year Nomina tions N ominate your social work student intern for the Student of the Year Award. This is a prestigious honor for students and a great way for Field Instructors and agencies to thank their interns for all of their hard work and dedication . The Social Work Student of the Year will be announced at the Student Graduation Ceremony and dinner party. P lease take the time to nominate your field instructor by completing a brief evaluation by March 31 , 2015: SV_1BQiEpyYoAxhHuJ Field Agency Fair Registration Social Work will host its annual Field Agency Fair on Friday, March 27 , 2015 from 9am 12pm in the Ros e Theater on the University of Memphis campus. This is a wonderful opportunity for you to meet our MSW and BA students, pre - and network with other local clinicians and agencies. The fair this year will focus on providing in ternships for students (both BA and MSW) for the 2015 - 2016 academic year, and if your agency is hiring new graduates this will also be an opportunity to recruit new employees. We will provide up to two parking passes per agency (carpooling is suggested and recommended). Instructions on how to access the University Parking Garage and Rose Theater will be emailed to you at a later date. Register here: m/SE/?SID= SV_6YfU1ak7NR2Weix Field Instructor of the Year Award N ominate your field instructor for the Field Instructor of the Year Award. This is a prestigious honor for field instructors and a great way for students to thank their field instructors for all of their guidance and supervision. The Field Instructor of the Year will be announced at the Field Instructor Luncheon. P lease take the time to nominate your field instructor by completing a brief evaluation by March 31 , 2015: V_blloC270h4fboPj Social Work Field Agency Fair The Soci al Work will host its Annual Field Agency Fair on Friday, March 27 , 2015 from 9am 12pm in the Rose Theater on the University of Memphis campus . This is a wonderful opportunity for BA and MSW students to meet clini cians from the community, discuss agency programming, identify potential field placements and job opportunities , distribute resumes, and network with other local clinicians and agencies. Second Year Field Internships Field Internship preparation! Complete the following form by noting your top three preferences for field placement next year. Completing this form does not mean that you are guaranteed your preferred agency, but all requests will be reviewed and your placement will be based on the MSW Field student. Reference the online directory (found on our website under field placement, click on directory) to identify agencies you ar e interested in. Online form: V_b8IWG1HQtBDqW8d Information for students Information for field instructors 3 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work March 2015 Faculty and Student Spotlight s Dr. Gregory Washington Congratulations to our own Dr. Gregory Washington served as the PI on more than $1 million in externally supported research during his time here at the University of Memphis. Tennessee Equality Project Volunteers Students from Dr. Lennon - Assessment, Diagnosis, and Psychopathology students recently volunteered for the Tennesse Equality 2015 at Bridges. Pictured from left to right are Victoria Maher, DeAvila Bennett, D eAnn Smallwood, Roslyn Brewer, Darnetta Ware, Takindra Worles, and Lauren Reed. Social Work congratulates NASW - 2015 Social Work Award Winners Mildred Richard (Friends for Li fe); Representative Antonio Parkinson (TN District 9); Michael Valdes, LCSW; Roberta Renee Brown, LCSW, BCD, CFAE; Amber Crockett (BSW student); and our very own Megan Broadstreet [pictured at left] who will be honored with the MSW Student of the Year awar d. Congratulations to the recipients! 2015 NASW - TN State Winners The University of Memphis Department of Social Work March 2015 Upcoming events Memphis Crisis Center needs Volunteers The Memphis Crisis Center will hold its next New Volunteer Training this month. They need volunteers and interns to staff their crisis lines. This is a great opportunity to gain experience, build skills, build your resume, and secure reference s and recommendation letters. New Volunteer Training ( Parts One and Two ): WHEN: Monday & Tuesday March 23rd & 24th 6:00pm - 9:00pm WHERE: MCC Trai ning Facility, 70 North Pauline (Next to Len All Train ing Materials Provided. Dinner will NOT be provided. These sessions represent parts one and two of the clas sroom portion of the training. There are a total of 4 classroom sessio ns offered on a monthly basis (Parts 3 & 4 will be March 30th & 31st) . We strongly encourage you t o take the sessions in order. Parking is available directly in front of the facility (ignore the tow - away signs). If these spaces are filled, please use the parking ga rage directly behind the facility. Parking coupons will be available at the training. Please RSVP to mike.labonte@crisis7.org < mailto:m ike.labonte@crisis7.org if you plan on attending the upcoming classroom sessions. If you have any questions about volunteering or interning call Mike LaBonte at (901) 351 - 9986. Health Law & Policy Symposium You are invited to the 2 nd annual Institute for Health Law & Policy Symposium, Building Blocks for a Healthier Community , to be held at the Law School on Friday, March 20 . focus will be on making the critical connection between health and community development, with national speakers, including a senior officer of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. The afternoon will shift to the local contect, and how innovative faith lead ers are already trying health to community development, followed by reflection on the community assets we could leverage to use policy to promote health and development. Registration begins at 8:30am and the program runs from 9am 4pm . A continental breakfast and lunch will be available to registered guests. This event has been approved for 4.75 credits (general) of CLE. There is a $50 fee for those seeking CLE credit, but it is free to all others. To register, please go to: Students Helping Students Drs. Barnes, Elswick, Lennon - Dearing, and Washington have received a TBR grant to fund Students Helping Students. Students Helping Stu dents pairs undergraduate social work students with graduate social work students. If you are interested in improving your academic skills, we invite you to be screened for this new program. The initial assessment takes approximately one hour. You will b e assessed on your study skills, writing skills, reading fluency, stress level, and coping skills. For a screening appointment call (901) 678 - 1748 or email studentshelpingstudents@memphis.edu . Upcoming events The University of Memphis Social Work Department March 2015 Social Work Day on the Hill This year the Social Work Department at the University of Memphis will participate in Social Work Day on the Hill on March 25, 2015 in Nashville, TN. You may register for SWDOTH here: - ym.com/events/event_details.asp?id=5256 57&group = Cost of lunch is $6/ The Graduate Organization of Social Work is holding an interest meeting on February 12, 2015 at 4:30 in McCord 207/209. If you have any questions, please contact Dr. Delavega or Roslyn Brewer, GO!SW president. University of Memphis Department of Social Work Catherine Clubb - Brown MSW Student/Newsletter Manager Dr. Susan Elswick Newsletter Coordinator/Editor be a stranger! March 2015 Please s end submissions to the Newsletter Coordinator/Editor: Dr. Susan Elswick Assistant Professor/Director of MSW Field Placement University of Memphis Department of Social Work 115 McCord Hall Memphis, TN 38152 selswick@memphis.edu 901 - 678 - 4722