#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/newsletters/feb2015newsletter.pdf
Monthly Newsletter University of Memphis Department of Social Work Happy February! Welcome to the beginning of a new semester ! If you win an award, start a study, want to promote a community event for social workers or other individuals, or anything else you feel is relevant, please send the information to Dr. Susan Elswick at selswick @memphis.edu . Thank you! Catherine Clubb - Brown, Newsletter Manager For students Page 2 Spotlights Page 4 Read about the accomplishments of our social work faculty and students Upcoming events Page 5 Learn about the upcoming events and opportunities for social workers February 2015 Complete the form for your year 2 field placement Job Postings Are you a new graduate seeking employment? Looking for new job within the social work field? many local and current job postings when you visit the Career Center for the Department of Social Work. Tons of great information is just a click away! Visit the Career Center fo r the Department of Social Work today at dpress.com/ 2 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work February 2015 Student of the Year Nominations N ominate your social work student intern for the Student of the Year Award. This is a prestigious honor for students and a great way for Field Instructors and agencies to thank their interns for all of their hard work and dedication . The Social Work Student of the Year will be announced at the Student Graduation Ceremony and dinner party. P lease take the time to nominate your field instructor by completing a brief evaluation by March 31, 2015: SV_1BQiEpyYoAxhHuJ Field Agency Fair Registration Social Work will host its annual Field Agency Fair on Friday, March 27, 2015 from 9am 12pm in t he Rose Theater on the University of Memphis campus. This is a wonderful opportunity for you to meet our MSW and BA students, pre - and network with other local clinicians and agencies. The fair this year will focus on provid ing internships for students (both BA and MSW) for the 2015 - 2016 academic year, and if your agency is hiring new graduates this will also be an opportunity to recruit new employees. We will provide up to two parking passes per agency (carpooling is suggest ed and recommended). Instructions on how to access the University Parking Garage and Rose Theater will be emailed to you at a later date. Register here: ics.com/SE/?SID= SV_6YfU1ak7NR2Weix Field Instructor of the Year Award N ominate your field instructor for the Field Instructor of the Year Award. This is a prestigious honor for field instructors and a great way for students to thank their field instructors for all of their guidance and supervision. The Field Instructor of the Year will be announced at the Field Instructor Luncheon. P lease take the time to nominate your field instructo r by completing a brief evaluation by March 31, 2015: V_blloC270h4fboPj Social Work Field Agency Fair The Soci al Work will host its Annual Field Agency Fair on Friday, March 27, 2015 from 9am 12pm in the Rose Theater on the University of Memphis campus . This is a wonderful opportunity for BA and MSW students to meet clini cians from the community, discuss agency programming, identify potential field placements and job opportunities , distribute resumes, and network with other local clinicians and agencies. Second Year Field Internships Field Internship preparation! Complete the following form by noting your top three preferences for field placement next year. Completing this form does not mean that you are guaranteed your preferred agency, but all requests will be reviewed and your placement will be based on the MSW Field student. Reference the online directory (found on our website under field placement, click on directory) to identify agencies you ar e interested in. Online form: V_b8IWG1HQtBDqW8d Information for students Information for field instructors 3 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work February 2015 Faculty and Student Spotlight s Dr. Robin Lennon - Dearing More than thirty women living with HIV in the Memphis area were joined by fifteen community agencies and 25 social work student volunteers for the on December 4, 2014 at the Urban Child Institute. The women par ticipated in a full - day educational and healing - oriented event where they received information and encouragement to be proactive in their self - care. This event was planned and implemented by a committee of volunteers, chaired by Dr. Lennon - Dearing, and sup ported through donations from community organizations and agencies. Special appreciation goes to Frannie Harper, MSW that made this event a success. And t hanks to the student volunteers from Dr. Lennon - Dear SWRK 3904 Practice II class for their willingness to volunteer their time and enthusiasm. Bria Gibson Bria Gibson, a senior in the BASW Program, is completing a semester - long internship in Nashville, TN with the Tennessee Legislative Internship Program. In the spring semester of each year, promising seniors or graduate students enrolled in degree program s in social work, political science, laws, history, administration, economics, sociology, journalism, or related fields are placed with Tennessee General Assembly legislators to gain hand s - on experience in uties include bill and policy analysis, constituent work, and computer and library research. Bria has been assigned to the following senators: Representative Steve McManus (Republican Cordova/District 96) and Representative Antonio Parkinson (Democrat Memphis/District 98). While completing her field practicum in Nashville, Bria plans to learn about developing and reforming federal policies, and advocating for oppressed groups. Frannie Harper - Mion and Robbin Lennon - Dearing 4 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work February 2015 Upcoming event The University of Memphis Department of Social Work February 2015 Free February Webinars Novel Findings in Brain DNA for Psychiatric Disorders Brain & Behavior Research Foundation Feb 10 at 1PM CST studying genetic and biologic influences on Models of Trauma - Informed Integrated Care Part II: Identifying and Responding to Early Childhood Trauma in the Pediatric Setting NCTSN Feb 11 at 11 - 12:30PM CST the identification, management and treatment of traumatic stress in young children exposed to example will be discussed from the perspectives of both a pediatrician and mental health Stress an d Anxiety Following Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) DCoE Feb 12 at 12 - 1:30PM CST between the effects of stress and anxiety during the strategies for treating co - morbid symptoms with the core symptoms of evide nce - Connecting the Dots: An Overview of the Links Among Multiple Forms of Violence de Prevention Resource Center Feb 12 at 2 - 3:30PM CST research linking multiple forms of violence (including shared root causes) and examples from those in the field who are already working to prevent multiple forms of violence at the same How Struggling Readers Might Qualify for Free Digital Book s Understood.org Feb 13 at 12PM CST Practical Tips in Treating Eating Disorders CSAB Feb 13 at 12PM CST : [CSAB usually charges $25 per webinar but is providing them for free during the month of February] Moving Beyond the Wheel: Understanding Domestic Violence in LGBTQ Communities BWJP Feb 17 at 2 - 3:30PM CST strengths, vulnerabilities and barriers LGBTQ survivors face in navigating systems and communities, as well as addressing the unique considerations for safety planning and advocacy rooted in the lived expe Eating Disorders in Neurobiology CSAB Feb 20 at 12PM CST :[CSAB usually charges $25 per webinar but is providing them for free during the month of February] Dealing With Trauma & Phobias Using NLP onlineevents.co Feb 25 at 1PM CST rms of therapy? Which techniques will work? Which will not work? Can I use NLP alongside my existing therapeutic techniques and skills? How to use NLP to assist Understanding Clients who Engage in Self - Injurious Behaviors NAADAC Feb 25 at 2 - 3:30PM CST self - harm as a coping mechanism, how this behavior can become Family Violence Prevention Building Trauma Informed Communities CHNET - Works Feb 26 at 12PM CST - competent, trauma - informed practice can easily be integrated acros s a continuum of supports and services together with diverse children, youth, adults, families and Upcoming events Students Helping Students Drs. Barnes, Elswick, Lennon - Dearing, and Washington have received a TBR grant to fund Students Helping Students. Students Helping Students pairs undergraduate social work students with graduate social work students. If you are interested in improving your academic skills, we invite you to be screened for this new program. The initial assessment ta kes approximately one hour. You will be assessed on your study skills, writing skills, reading fluency, stress level, and coping skills. For a screening appointment call (901) 678 - 1748 or email studentshelpingstudents@memphis.edu . Upcoming events The University of Memphis Social Work Department February 2015 Social Work Day on the Hill ] This year the Social Work Department at the University of Memphis will participate in Social Work Day on the Hill on March 25, 2015 in Nashville, TN. You may register for SWDOTH here: - ym.com/events/event_details.asp?id=5256 57&group = Cost of lunch is $6/ The Graduate Organization of Social Work is holding an interest meeting on February 12, 2015 at 4:30 in McCord 207/209. If you have any questions, please contact Dr. Delavega or Roslyn Brewer, GO!SW president. University of Memphis Department of Social Work Catherine Clubb - Brown MSW Student/Newsletter Manager Dr. Susan Elswick Newsletter Coordinator/Editor February 2015 Please s end submissions to the Newsletter Coordinator/Editor: Dr. Susan Elswick Assistant Professor/Director of MSW Field Placement University of Memphis Department of Social Work 115 McCord Hall Memphis, TN 38152 selswick@memphis.edu 901 - 678 - 4722