#http://www.memphis.edu/libraries/administration/strategic_plan.php
Strategic Plan - Libraries - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Libraries About Services Resources Instruction Special Collections Technology Administration About Us Staff Hours and Location Library Faculty and Staff Portal Libraries Standing Committees Libraries Organizational Chart Home Libraries Administration Strategic Plan University Libraries, University of Memphis Strategic Plan 2013-2018 Read as PDF MISSION STATEMENT The University Libraries is a leader in managing and providing access to information services and resources that support teaching, learning, and research for the University of Memphis community. VISION STATEMENT The University Libraries will be the information and research destination of choice for the University of Memphis community, committed to developing lifelong learning and research skills in a welcoming, resource-rich, innovative, and stimulating environment, embracing collaborative opportunities and cultivating a technologically-enhanced, user-centered setting for the discovery, creation, organization, preservation, and communication of knowledge. STATEMENT OF VALUES Providing the varied services, resources, and programs of the University Libraries requires the involvement of many people. While each individual utilizes his or her own particular expertise and background and adopts his or her unique way to accomplish each task, the overall effort is guided by a common set of values that binds the whole together with a common purpose. As they go about meeting the Libraries' established objectives, University Libraries' faculty and staff are committed to the following values: Service The University Libraries seeks excellence in providing assistance to all Libraries users while ensuring that access to information resources is provided in an open, receptive, and courteous manner, with a commitment to freedom of information and equity of access. Quality The University Libraries strives to deliver effective user services, resources, and programs, using the highest feasible standards of management, assessment, organization, and delivery. We are simultaneously committed to the development of a knowledgeable, versatile, and skilled faculty and staff. Integrity The University Libraries affirms the principles of academic freedom and provides all services, programs, and operations with honesty, openness, and accountability. Diversity The University Libraries values and appreciates the differences, among our users, our collections, and our faculty and staff. We endeavor to provide a climate of acceptance and respect for all points of view and for all individuals, whether members of the university community or the community-at-large, without regard to race, ethnicity, gender, age, sexual orientation, or physical abilities. Collaboration The University Libraries partners with the departments and colleges to provide resources and services to support the academic programs of the University. We join with other academic communities and libraries throughout Memphis, Tennessee, the Mid-South region, and the nation to enhance access to information resources beyond the University Campus. Innovation The University Libraries identifies, investigates, evaluates, and implements new and emerging methods for obtaining appropriate resources and providing relevant services to meet known and/or anticipated user needs. GOALS 2013 - 2018 To accomplish the overall mission of the University Libraries, resources and energy will be focused on achieving the following goals. 1. Build, preserve, and support collections that meet the needs of present and future users. 2. Develop, explore, and implement new information technologies and resources. 3. Develop and implement strategies that maximize the effectiveness of the integrated library system (ILS). 4. Develop, promote, and deliver instructional services and resources to meet changing user needs. 5. Invest in Libraries' personnel to enhance their abilities to provide library services and resources. 6. Collaborate with other units of the University, the urban community, the professional community, the region, or the nation to improve access to information resources. 7. Create and implement marketing and development plans that will enhance the visibility, enhance the image, and expand the resource base of the University Libraries. GOALS AND OBJECTIVES: Read as PDF Updated 9/13 Administration About Us Staff Hours and Location Library Faculty and Staff Portal Libraries Standing Committees Libraries Organizational Chart My Library Account Review your library account for due dates and more. Interlibrary Loan Request books, articles, and other research materials from other libraries. Reserve space Group study and presentation spaces available in the library. Ask-a-Librarian Got a question? Got a problem? Ask Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .