#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/newsletters/septnewsletter.pdf
In this issue… Monthly Newsletter University of Memphis Department of Social Work Happy fall! Welcome to the beginning of a new school year! And a special welcome to all new University of Memphis social work students. I am excited to be the new newsletter manager and to bring you the Department of Social Work newsletter each month. If you win an award, start a study, want to promote a community event for social workers or other individuals, or anything el se you feel is relevant, please send the information to Dr. Susan Elswick at selswick@memphis.edu . Thank you! Catherine Clubb -Brown, Newsletter Manager Our Community Page 2 Faculty Spotlight Page 4 Read about the accomplishments of our social work faculty Student Spotlight Page 7 Learn about the accomplishments of our social work students September 2014 2014 Phi Alpha Officers We would like to give special recognition to the 2014 officers of the University of Memphis’ Phi Alpha chapter: President: Marguerite “Missy” McGowan Vice President: Kristen Bowen Secretary/Treasurer: Jherrel Jones Please join us in recognizing Missy, Kr isten, and Jherrel (pictured below) and their leadership of our Phi Alpha Find descriptions of upcoming community events to get involved with 2 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work September 2014 2014 Community Events Celebrate the fact that All People Matter By walking in the 2014 Mid -South Pride Festival and Parade Come walk with the University of Memphis’ Department of Social Work, the Graduate Organization of Social Work, and the West branch of NASW Tennessee Saturday, Sept ember 27 4:30pm Robert Church Park, Memphis TN (Corner of Beale and Fourth) Check out these upcoming activities for social workers in our community Social Work networking event September 24 5:30pm - 7:30pm 2115 Madision Ave. Memphis, TN 38104 (901) 274-0100 To RSVP contact Desiree at pric0178@gmail.com *Please bring business cards. This event is not affiliated with any specific group or organization, it is open to all Memphis social workers Bra dford Health Services Classes available for parents and faculty include: The United States of Numb: Current Trends in Adolescent Drug Use and Mental Health Beer Bongs and Bullying: The Connection Between Adolescent Substance Abuse and Bullying Behavior *additional topics available upon request To schedule an appointment contact Angela Camp, National Coordinator of Adolescent Marketing at acamp@bradfordhealth.net or (256) 503-8715 Concerned Perso ns Support Group Offered by Bradford Health Services A confidential support meeting for people in the community who are struggling with the effects of drugs and alcohol Any concerned persons who are interested in making a difference in the life of some one suffering from the disease of addiction can attend (parents, guardians, grandparents, friends, other family members, and neighbors). Every Tuesday 5:30pm – 6:30pm Memphis Regional Office 8566 Cordes Circle Germantown, TN 38139 (901) 744-8111 3 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work September 2014 2014 Job Postings Are you a new graduate seeking employment? Looking for new job within the social work field? Don’t forget that you have access to many local and current job postings when you visit the Career Center for the Department of Social Work. Tons of great information is just a click away! Visit the Career Center for the Department of Social Work today at 2014 NASW conference Field Instructor Incentives Field hours donated by BSW and MSW social work students: 2012 - 2013: 53,000 Summer 2013: 6,490 2013 - 2014: 60,760 Summer 2014: 15,140 Projected 2014 - 2015 hours: 56,100 Total 2012 - 2015: 191,149 hours Become a field instructor and enjoy these prizes: • Free access to Careers Tab • Free mark eting for your Access to monthly Dept. Social Work newsletters • Opportunity to be nominated for field instructor of the year • Field Luncheon during the spring semester • Participate in Field Agency Fair in the spring • Discounted rates for on -campus recreation services • Ability to check -out and access on -campus University Library materials Contact Dr. Susan Elswick to apply: selswick@memphis.edu Donated Field Hours Frannie Harper Mion, a Conce ntration Extended -Study student, Dr. Robin Lennon -Dearing, and Dr. Elena Delavega (pictured below) attended the National Conference of the National Associati on of Social Workers this July in Washington, D.C. The group presented two posters all three days of the conference. The posters were: “Effects of Housing on Health and Wellbeing of HIV Positive Women ” and “Social Worker ’s Perspective on Proposed Legislation that Discriminates Against LGBT Equality .” Congratulations to our colleagues! 4 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work September 2014 2014 Faculty Spotlight Dr. Catherine A. Simmons Catherine A. Simmons has been appointed to serve a three year -term on the highly prestigious Council on the Role and Status of Women in Social Work Education , which is part of the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE). Referred to as “the Women’s Council,” this national organization works to a.) eliminate all procedures within academia that hinder the full participation of women, b.) makes recommendations to the CSWE Board on all matters of policy, and c.) initiates and coordinates programs and activities related to women in social work education. The Women’s Council is also responsible for the development of educational resources relevant to women's issues within social work education. Appointment to the CS WE Women’s Council is highly competitive and a great honor within Social Work community. Students Helping Students Drs. Barnes, Elswick, Lennon -Dearing, and Washington have received a TBR grant to fund Students Helping Students. Students Helping Students pairs undergraduate social work students with graduate social work students. If you are interested in improving your academic skills, we invite you to be screened for this new program. The initial assessment takes approximately one hour. You will be assessed on your study skills, writing skills, reading fluency, stress level, and coping skills. For a screening appointment call (901) 678 -1748 or email studentshelpingstudents@memph is.edu . Dr. Gary Schneider Gary Schneider has received the 2014 Dean’s Office Award for Advising Excellence. Dr. Susan Neely -Barnes commented on the recipient, saying, “I can attest to the number of hours that he has put into advising and his commitment to student succes s. This is a very well deserved honor!” 5 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work September 2014 2014 Student Spotlight Megan Broadstreet Megan Broadstreet, second year Master of Social Work student, completed her advanced field placement this summer in Uganda. While in Uganda, Megan was able to fully experience social welfare services in an African context. She worked with young children in a residential care setting and a preschool setting. She worked with a community organization that raises awareness of child abuse and neglect. With this organization, she had the opportunity to work on safety planning and fund raising. Megan also had the opportunity to visit a local high school and lead group discussions on drugs, HIV, prostitution, peer pressure, and safe sex. Finally, Megan had the opportunity to visit an AIDS clinic. Of her experiences in Uganda, Megan said Uganda is “a place where need is heavy and poverty is visible, a place with a strong sense of community, [and] most of all a place with great hope and perseverance.” Megan is pictured here with her host mother, Robinah. Stephanie Lovins Stephanie Lovins, an MSW stud ent in the accelerated program, is the first social work intern at the Law Offices of the Shelby County Public Defenders. Stephanie is pursuing forensic social work and is currently assigned to the Special Litigations team. She plans to graduate with her masters in May 2015. Stephanie has served as a BSW representative in the National Association of Social Workers, and currently holds a position as Graduate Assistant for Dr. Susan Neely -Barnes, working with the First Scholars program at the University of M emphis. Stephanie is pictured in the back row, far right. Our own MSW student, Tangie Dotson, recently won the Tennessee Association of School Social Workers (TASSW) scholarship. Congratulations, Tangie! Tangie Dotson 6 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work September 2014 2014 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work will buy back your clickers for $20 OR you can donate them to the department to use in on -site CEU trainings for the community. Alumna Maggie Landry donated her clicker to the depart ment. Thanks, Maggie! To donate or sell back your clicker contact Dr. Delavega at mdlavega@memphis.edu or Dr. Elswick at selswick@memphis.edu Videos Special education rights in Memphis, TN: -you -need -to-know -about -special -education -rights/ Just Care Family Network’s “Fly Away” music video: -Mc1TXGqM Center for the Advancement of Youth Development (CAYD) May Thin k Tank: -7f_X4zBBMQ Perspective students: information sessions Alumni: sell back your clickers The University’s MSW program has information sessions twice a month about the MSW program: one face -to-face and one online. Follow the link and click “get information” to sign up for a session: ure_students.htm We hope to see you at a session! Youth Guided Empowerment Evaluation Consortium (YGEEC) summer camp: -tf4 Just Care Asset Utilization Project – drum circle: 0WM The Department of Social Work and Dr. Elena Delavega are pleased to announce the release of the 2014 Memphis Poverty Fact Sheet. Newly released figures show that child poverty in Memphis continues to rise, even as it has fallen in the rest of the country. To access current and past poverty fact sheets, visit: rk/factsheets.php 2014 Memphis Poverty Fact Sheet Catherine Clubb -Brown MSW Student/Newsletter Manager Dr. Susan Elswick Newslette r Coordinator/Editor University of Memphis Department of Social Work Don’t be a stranger! Please s end submissions to the Newsletter Coordinator/Editor: Dr. Susan Elswick Assistant Professor/Director of MSW Field Placement University of Memphis Department of Social Work 115 McCord Hall Memphis, TN 38152 selswick@memphis.edu 901-678-4722 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work September 2014 The subject -specialist librarian for Social Work is Parveen Rustomfram. Contact her at prstmfrm@memphis.edu .