#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/newsletters/octnovnewsfull.pdf
Monthly Newsletter University of Memphis Department of Social Work Dr. Steven Soifer , Chair of the Department of Social Work, recently published a book: Community Economic Development in Social Work (cover pictured below). Community economic development (CED) is an increasingly essential factor in the revitalization of low - to moderate - in come communities. This cutting - edge text explores the inter s ection of CED and social work practice, which both focus on the well - being of indigent communities and the empowerment of individuals and the communities in which they live. Thank you for reading the October edition of the Social Work newsletter! If you win an award, start a study, want to promote a community event for social workers or other individuals, or anything else you feel is relevant, please send the information to Dr . Susan Elswick at selswick@memphis.edu . Thank you! Catherine Clubb - Brown, Newsletter Manager Our Community Page 2 Job openings Page 3 Check out some new job openings in the field of social work MSW - PDI grant Page 4 Learn about the new grant for our MSW students, sponsored by 3 faculty members October/November 2014 Find descriptions of upcoming community events to get involved with 2 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work November 2014 Community Events Call for survey participants Shunda McCoy is a PhD candidate in Social Work at Argosy University in Nashville. Shunda is looking for people to participate in a survey for her doctoral dissertation. The purpose of the study is to determine whether there is a significant difference between the perceptions of School Social Workers and School Counselors regarding role conflict and role ambiguity. The survey will take approximately 15 minutes. To take the survey, click the following link: Check out these upcoming activities for social workers in our community Concerned Persons Support Group Offered by Bradford Health Services A confidential support meeting for people in the community who are struggling with the effect s of drugs and alcohol Any concerned persons who are interested in making a difference in the life of someone suffering from the disease of addiction can attend (parents, guardians, grandparents, friends, other family members, and neighbors). Every Tues day 5:30pm 6:30pm Memphis Regional Office 8566 Cordes Circle Germantown, TN 38139 (901) 744 - 8111 T - shirts For Sale The Graduate Organiza tion of Social Workers is selling shirts for $10 a piece. The shirts are royal blue, cotton, and short - sleeved (see below). To order a shirt email Wendi Albert at wendikalbert@gmail.com with your name, phone number, email address, and preferred size (S - XXL). Payment can be made by check or cash. Bradford Health Services Classes available for parents and faculty include: The United States of Numb: Current Trends in Adolescent Drug Use and Mental Health Beer Bongs and Bullying: The Connection Between Adolescent Substance Abuse and Bullying Behavior *additional topics available upon request To schedule an appointment contact Angela Camp, National Coordinator of Adolescent Marketing at acamp@bradfordhealth.net or (256) 503 - 8715 3 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work November 2014 Additional Job Postings Are you a new graduate seeking employment? Looking for a new job within the social work field? current job postings when you visit the Career Center for the Department of Social Work. Tons of great information is just a click away! Visit the Career Center for the Department of Social Work today a t . Job Openings Check out these career opportunities in the greater Memphis area The Collegiate School of Memphis has several job openings. The Collegiate School is an urban, private Christian school providing rigorous college - preparatory education to children grades 6 - 12. Qualifications: - Bachelors Degree or higher - Education and/ or experience in desired subject area - Teaching experience - Strong interest in high - performing urban education Potential Faculty Position Openings - Bible/Ethics - College & Career - English - Fine Arts - Foreign Language - Library - Math - Physical Education/Wellness - Science - Social Studies - Technology To learn more call (901) - 591 - 8200. Youth Villages has a job opening for an Anaya Family Intervention Specialist. Youth Villages offers growth and development through continuous training, as well as tuition and licensure reimbursement for students. Qualifications: - Masters degree in a social service discipline - Strong organizational skills and attention to detail - Exce llent written, verbal, and oral skills - Ability to manage multiple priorities simultaneously - Basic computer knowledge - Ability to maintain a flexible schedule Additional Benefits: - Medical, vision, dental, prescription drug coverage - Retirement savings pension plan - 403 (b) - 2 weeks paid vacation - 12 paid sick days per year - 9 paid holidays - Mileage and cell phone reimbursement For more information, go to: bs/jobdetails.aspx?SiteID=cb_jobalert&Job_ DID=J3H33S76MPZZ3KQ3G10&ipath=PS SKG24&sc_extcmp=JS_JobAlert_Title&sho wNewJDP=yes&psa=1 4 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work November 2014 Faculty and Student Spotlight MSW - PDI Grant Congratulations to Drs. Susan Neely - Barnes, Elena Delavega, and Susan Elswick (pictured at left) who have received a three - year g rant to fund the Midsouth Social Work Professional Development Initiative (MSW - PDI) from the Health and Resources and Services Administration. The purpose of the MSW - PDI is to expand the and the Midsouth r egion. The project will train 33 second year MSW inters per year. The project will augment the existing curriculum that includes a concentration in Advanced Practice with Children, Youth, and Families and existing field placement requirements with field ag ency experiences and symposiums focused on transition age youth, violence prevention, integration with primary care, interprofessional education, engagement with families, and cultural and linguistic competency. Interns participating in the training will receive a $10,000 stipend connected to their field placement and have the opportunity to apply for travel funding to attend conferences and symposia. The research team hopes to sustain the program after the funding ends by establishment of a training cent er that will offer continuing professional education and clinical services to the community. Jam é H. Scott is an extended study MSW student, expected to graduate in May 2015. She earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in Social Work from LeMoyne - Owen College in 2004 and received her MBA in Management from Strayer University in 2008. Jam é has been a statewi de trainer at the Tennessee Resource Parent Annual Conference for the last 3 years. This year she was the opening keynote speaker and had the opportunity to share her life experiences with over 1,000 Tennessee foster and adoptice parents. Jam é is currently the Foster Care Department Manager at Goodwill Homes Community Services, Inc in Memphis. Jam é H. Scott 5 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work November 2014 The Council on Social Work Education recently held its Annual Program Meeting. The following presentations were given by the U of M faculty, MSW graduates, and current MSW students: Dr. Neely - Barnes: (1) How to Succeed in Reaffirmation or Candidacy: Tips and Strategies (2) Improving Parent and Professional Knowledge of Special Education Law: An Evaluation Study (3) Race, Class, and Disability: Implications for Families Drs. Delavega, Elswick, and Soifer, and student Jeanine Claiborne: Non - traditional field placements in the field of social wor k: What you need to know to make it work Dr. Simmons: (1) Strength - based social work: A meta - theory to guide social work research and practice (2) From boots to books: Promoting the success of students who are veterans MSW students Mal lory Williams and Wendi Albert (pictured at right): Application of motivational interviewing with trauma informed care for women and children Dr. Elswick: The Behavior Change Project: A Field Assignment in Empathy Building, Self - Awareness, and Direct Clinical Practice On October 21, the Student Social Work Organization (SSWO) invited licensed Clinical Social Worker Gretchen Dickerson to speak to social work students about her professional experiences in the field of medical social work. Dickerson is an Early Interventi on Manager at Methodist LeBonheur Healthcare. The students in attendance gained knowledge of social work in medical settings, and learned how social policy influences the work done by medical social work professionals. Guest Speaker, Gretchen Dickerson Faculty and Student Spotlight Catherine Clubb - Brown MSW Student/Newsletter Manager Dr. Susan Elswick Newsletter Coordinator/Editor University of Memphis Department of Social Work Please s end submissions to the Newsletter Coordinator/Editor: Dr. Susan Elswick Assistant Professor/Director of MSW Field Placement University of Memphis Department of Social Work 115 McCord Hall Memphis, TN 38152 se lswick@memphis.edu 901 - 678 - 4722 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work September 2014 The subject - specialist librarian for Social Work is Parveen Rustomfram. Contact her at prstmfrm@memphis.edu .