#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/newsletters/2014april.pdf
Hello Readers! Thank you so much for reading and following along with us throughout the 2013-2014 academic ye ar! As the semester is nearing its close, there will only be one more edition of the Monthly Newsletter until the fall semester begins. We hope you enjoy both the contents of this news letter and the final edition of this semester that will be sent your way in May. With this year’s commencement services quickly approaching, we’d like to take a moment to say congratulations to the social work students who will be graduating as members of the class of 2014. If you are a graduating student receiving either your BASW or MSW degree, we are so proud of you! It has been a joy to call you students, classmates, and friends, and we welcome you as colleagues as you move out of our program and into the social work workforce. Congratulations! Best wishes! Deanna Nick (Newsletter Manager) and Dr. Susan Elswick (Newsletter Editor) As this semester draws to a close, we want to give special recognition to those who will be graduating as members of the class of 2014! Congratulations to the Class of 2014 Graduates! Monthly Newsletter University of Memphis Department of Social Work April 2014 Alco hol Awareness Did you know that April is Alcohol Awareness Month? We’ve got some helpful information for you! Page 2 Student Spotlight Our students are doing great things! Read about some of their accomplishments! Page 4 Announcements Check here for exciting announcements for social workers in and around our city! Page 6 Have you been searching for a new job? If so, you need to visit the Career Center for the Department of Social Work! In addition to the valuable information you can find about open social work positions in and around the city of Memphis, the C areer Center site will soon contain additional information about volunteer opportunities and trainings you may want to attend! Check it out here: his.wordpress.com . Additions to the Caree r Center 2 1Drinking too much alcohol increases people’s risk of injuries, violence, drowning, liver disease, and some types of cancer. This April during Alcohol Awareness Month, the University of Memphis Department of Social Work encourages you to educate yourself and your loved ones about the dangers of drinking too much. In Tennessee alone, there were over 7000 alcohol related crashes in 2012 . To spread the word and prevent alcohol abuse, the University of Memphis Department of Social Work is joining other organizations across the country to honor Alcohol Awareness Month. If you are drinking too much, you can improve your health by cutting back or quitting. Here are some strategies to help you cut back or stop drinking: •Limit your drinking to no more than 1 drink a day for women or 2 drinks a day for men. •Keep track of how much you drink. •Don’t drink wh en you are upset. •Avoid places where people drink a lot. •Make a list of reasons not to drink. Do you have a friend or loved one that suffers from alcoholism? April is Alcohol Awareness Month. Take some time to educate yourself and those you love about the dangers of alcohol misuse. 2If you choose to drink, have only a limited amount. This means: •No more than 1 drink a day for women •No more than 2 drinks a day for men One drink is: •Bottle of beer (12 ounces) •Glass of wine (5 ounces) •Shot of liquor (1.5 ounces) If you are concerned about someone else’s drinking, offer help. For resources and more information, please visit the website of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence, Inc. at -a-services/alcohol -awareness -month . Want to help promote awareness? Tweet about Alcohol Awareness Month, and share s ome basic facts about alcohol use with your friends and family. Can’t decide what to say? Click here for a list of sample tweets you can use: t.aspx#twee ts. 3 1Dr. Elena Delavega Receives Honorable Mention PhD Distinguished Alumni Award Due to her outstanding contributions to the profession of social work, Dr. Elena Delavega, Assistant Professor, was nominated by her PhD alumni colleagues and PhD facu lty from the University of Houston to receive the University of Houston’s Distinguished Alumni Award. This nomination resulted in her Honorable Mention award, an honor given by the Graduate College of Social Work Alumni Board of Directors in recognition o f the 20 th anniversary of the PhD program at the University of Houston. Dr. Delavega will be recognized for this honor at a luncheon to be held on April 26, 2014 at University of Houston in Houston, Texas. Congratulations to Dr. Delavega on this great ho nor! Department of Social Work Faculty Spotlight 2Dr. Robin Lennon -Dearing, Dr. Elena Delavega to Chosen to Present at NASW 2014 Conference Both Dr. Robin Lennon -Dearing and Dr. Elena Delevega have had poster presentation abstracts accepted for presentation at the National Association of Social Worke rs 2014 National Conference. The conference is entitled “Social Work: Courage, Hope, and Leadership,” and is scheduled to be held in Washington, DC, July 23 -26, 2014. The poster presentations of both Drs. Lennon -Dearing and Delavega will be on display for the duration of the three -day conference and will be important components of the event. We are looking forward to their representation of the University of Memphis at this highly esteemed national conference. Our deepest congratulations to the both of you! Congratulations to Gregory Washington, Susan Neely -Barnes, Susan Elswick, and Robin Lennon -Dearing who received a $40,000 Tennessee Board of Regents Office of Academic Affairs Faculty Research Grant for "The Students Helping Students Program: 'Response to Intervention' in Higher Education." Response t o Intervention (RtI) is an evidence based practice model in K12 education that is used to identify at risk students and give them additional educational supports to promote success. Although well established in K12 education, research on its use in higher education is lacking. The project will use MSW students serving as graduate assistants to screen undergraduate BA in social work students on writing skills, study skills, reading fluency, stress management, and coping skills. Undergraduates who are identif ied as at risk will be offered either one -on-one or group intervention targeted to the identified skill area. Students will also be encouraged to use existing campus resources when appropriate. Reassessment will occur monthly and students will stay in the program until supports are no longer needed. Congratulations to Drs. Washington, Neely -Barnes, Elswick, and Lennon -Dearing on this outstanding achievement! Professors Receive Tennessee Board of Regents Research Grant 4 Another Social Work Day on the Hill Success for MSW Students The MSW students at the University of Memphis participated in the 2014 NASW Tennessee Social Work Day on the Hill in Nashville, Tennessee with a poster presentation entitled “ Exposing the Unspoken: Bringing Awareness to Workplace Bullying .” T heir presentation examined the strengths and weaknesses of TN HB 1981 (Rep. Antonio Parkinson)/TN SB 2226 (Sen. Jim Kyle), the “Healthy Workplace Bill.” As a result of this presentation, the students were invited to testify at the hearing of the House Loca l Government Subcommittee for HB 1981. The hearing took place in Room HHR 30 at the State Capitol. Below, some of the participating students are pictured with Representatives Joe Carr, Antonio Parkinson, and Larry Miller. Thank you, students, for repres enting the University of Memphis so well! Join us in celebrating these students and their outstanding accomplishments! Department of Social Work Student Spotlight Letter of Commendation: Lindsey Bailey Dr. Jody Long, LCSW, of The University of Tennessee’s College of Medicine Department of Psychiatry, submitted a Letter of Commendation for MSW field student, Lindsey Bailey. He wanted to recognize her for going above and beyond the call of duty in co -leading a complex presentation on Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing for the psychiatric residents during resident grand rounds. Dr. Long’s letter went on to say that Lindsey’s hard work on the presentat ion is representative of her overall performance as an intern. Great job! Paper Accepted for Publication: Leslie Lindsey and Matt Delaney BASW and MSW alumni Leslie Lindsey and current MSW student Matt Delaney are co -authors on a paper accepted for public ation in the Journal of Interpersonal Violence. Titled “ Real world barriers to assessing and treatment mental health problems with IPV survivors,” the study uses a concept mapping design to better understand both (a) the barriers faced by IPV survivors in relation to accessing care for mental health related problems and (b) ways to better overcome these barriers. Others on the paper include Anna Whatley (Administrator if Crime Victim Services, Shelby County Crime Victims Center), J. Gayle Beck (Endowed Ch air of Excellence, Department of Psychology), and Dr. Catherine A. Simmons (Associate Professor, Department of Social Work). Congratulations on this publication! Presentation Accepted: Mallory Williams and Wendi Albert MSW students Mal lory Williams and We ndi Albert wrote an abstract accepted for presentation a t the national social work conference, the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE), Annual Program Meeting (APM) . Their presentation, “ Application of motivational interviewing with trauma informed care for women and children ,” will be presented at the October 2014 conference held in Tampa, Florida. This will be their first national presentation. Congratulations, Mallory and Wendi! Appreciation to Dominique Winters Katie Bailey, MPA, CNP, Director of Intern and Volunteer Services at the Exchange Club Family Center wanted to recognize MSW intern Dominique Winters for providing arts and crafts supplies for the Center through her GO!SW group. Thank you! 5 NAMI Tenness ee: West Tennessee Regional Coordinator National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) is a grassroots organization offering education, support, and advocacy for individuals with mental illness and their families. They have affiliates throughout Tennessee whi ch are supported by part -time regional coordinators, and they are currently seeking a regional coordinator for western Tennessee. The west Tennessee regional coordinator will act as a resource to families, consumers, and affiliates in west Tennessee, offe ring information, guidance and advocacy concerning services for persons with mental illness. This part -time position requires 20 hours per week, and job duties include providing support to current affiliates, notifying the state office of changes in affil iate leadership or meeting information, responding to helpline referrals, reviewing website information for accuracy, establishing new affiliates, and more. If you are interested in this position, send inquiries to Jeff Fladen, MSW, Executive Director of NAMI Tennessee, at jfladen@namitn.org . Job Posting Jump Start Your Career Dinner: A Huge Success The Jump Start Your Career Mentor Dinner sponsored by the West Branch of NASW Tennessee w as a huge success. Well over 65 mentors and mentees attended the April 2 nd dinner, and everyone had a great time! Please enjoy the following photos from the evening’s festivities: The photos above show that a fun was had by all! If you are a mentor th at participated, thank you for giving your time to make the evening possible. Our students felt welcomed and appreciated and gained valuable knowledge they will use as they prepare to enter the social work workforce. Thank you, also, to the students who attended as mentees! We are proud of you and wish you the best of luck as you enter into or continue your social work career. Photos courtesy of Luecretia Matthews and Dr. Robin Lennon Dearing 6 1Julie Goodman, LBSW, Receives Caring More Award On Thursday March 27, 2014 Ms. Julie Goodman, LBSW, Chair of the West Branch of NASW -TN received the Caring More Award, sponsored by Crossroads Hospice, for her work serving the elderly population of Memphis. Ms. Goodman was nominated for the Caring More Award by Dr. Lennon -Dearing . The Caring More Award is presented to outstanding social workers who go above and beyond to improve lives through their work with patients and in the community. The award includes a $500 prize to the non -Community Announcements 2profit of the recipient’s choice, and a breakfast in their honor with invited colleagues, family, friends, and a distinguished panel of judges during National Social Work Month in March. Ms. Goodman donated the $500 prize to MIFA’s Meals on Wheels program. Dr. Susan Elswick served on the 2014 judges’ pane l. Grand Opening and Ribbon Cutting: Case Management, Inc. You’re invited to a grand opening celebration and ribbon cutting ceremony for the new facility of Case Management, Inc. The new facility is located at 3171 Director’s Row, Memphis, TN, 38131 at the corner of Brooks Road and Director’s Row. The celebration will be held on May 1, 2014 from 11:00am -3:00pm , and you are welcome to join the staff and friends of Case Management, Inc. as they celebrate this momentous occasion. Please RSVP to lusher@cmiofmemphis.org or 901 -821-5835. We’d like to recognize the following individuals for the awards they recently received through the National Association of Social Workers West Branc h: •BSW Student of the Year: Marguerite (Missy) McGowan •MSW Student of the Year: Mary Elizabeth (Werner) Viser •Social Worker of the Year (co -awardees) oVernetta Eddleman oDr. Luecretia Matthews •Lifetime Achievement Award: Dr. Jim Shaw •Public Citizen of the Ye ar: Veronique Black In addition to the West Branch awards listed above, BSW Student of the Year Missy McGowan and Social Worker of the Year Vernetta Eddleman both went on to receive their respective awards at the state level. Congratulations to each of th is year’s award winners! NASW West Branch Award Winners If you would like to share information about an upcoming agency or community event, have a story to share, would like to highlight a student completing field placement at your agency, or would like to contribute other ideas for this newsletter, send submissions to the Newsletter Coordinator/Editor: Dr. Susan Elswick Clinical Assistant Professor/Director of MSW Field Placement University of Memphis Department of Social Work 115 McCord Hall Memphis, TN 38152 selswick@memphis.edu 901-678-4722 Have a story to share? Deanna Nick MSW Student/Newsletter Manager Dr. Susan Elswick Newsletter Coordinator/Editor University of Memphis Department of Social Work