#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/newsletters/2014january.pdf
Save the date! Monthly Newsletter University of Memphis Department of Social Work Welcome to the first Monthly Newsletter of 2014! Happy New Year to you! We hope you enjoyed the holiday season and were able to have some much needed rest and relaxation with friends and family members! In this edition of our Monthly Newsletter, you can expect to read about National Slavery and Huma n Trafficking Prevention Month, exciting news from the University of Memphis Department of Social Work faculty and students, job postings from area, and some important announcements! Do you have something you’d like to see in our next issue? Let us know ! Email ideas to Dr. Susan Elswick, Newsletter Coordinator/Editor, at selswick@memphis.edu . For more information, see page 8 . Thanks for reading and sending in your submissions! Deanna Nick Newsletter Manage r Social Work Field Agency Fair Friday, March 28, 2014, 9:00am -12:00pm JANUARY 2014 #enditmovement Slavery still exists. Did you know that there are approximately 27 million people around the world today who are enslaved? 27 million men, women, and children are trapped in bonded labor, forced labor, and human trafficking. January is National Slavery and Human Trafficking Prevention Month. What can you do to help #end it? Visit enditmovement.com for ideas. Read more on page 4. Would you like to meet and recruit potential field placement students for the 2014 -2015 academic year? Looking to hire new graduates at your agency ? You don ’t want to miss the Social Work Field Agency Fair! See page 2 for more information! UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHI S DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL WORK JANUARY 2014 2 Do you know any future Bridge Builders? 2leaders who are committed to creating positive change in our community. I can truly say that thi s program is unlike any other that I have seen and offers a unique and transformative experience for every student who becomes a Bridge Builder.” In addition to working for positive change in our community, benefits include meeting other youth leaders from across the Mid -South, developing lasting friendships with a diverse group of students, and 11 th-12th graders have the opportunity to earn 6 hours of college credit through the program. Do you know any future Bridge Builders? Students can apply online at from now until March 7 th. Social Work Field Agency Fair The University of Memphis Department of Social Work will host the 2 nd Annual Field Agency Fair on Friday, March 28, 2014 from 9:00am -12:00pm. This is a wonderful opportunity for agencies to meet our BSW and MSW students, pre -interview them, gather resu mes, and network with other local clinicians and agencies. This year’s fair will focus on providing internships for students (BSW and MSW) for the 2014 -2015 academic year, and if your agency is hiring new graduates, this will also be an opportunity to rec ruit new employees. The Agency Fair will be held in the Rose Theater on the University of Memphis campus. If you are a field instructor that would like to attend, please complete this survey to confirm your attendance: . 1BRIDGES Direct or of Community Engagement, Julia McWhirter, needs your help in spreading the word about Bridge Builders. Bridge Builders is currently seeking 1,400 students in 6 th-11th grades to participate in the Bridge Builders leadership and diversity program. The p rogram starts with a one -week summer leadership experience and continues with six skill -building training sessions during the school year. The program is offered on a sliding -scale fee based on household income. Julia has this to say about the Bridge Bu ilders program: “Over the past three years, I have had the privilege of watching students in the Bridge Builders program develop into confident and courageous UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHI S DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL WORK JANUARY 2014 3 Social Work Student Spotlight Student Volunteer Tax Preparers Dr. Elena Delavega and the Social Work Earned Income Tax Credit Project are proud to announce that MSW student Debbie Layton obtained certification as a volunteer tax preparer (VITA) at the ADVANCED and MILITARY levels. Debbie is so proficient in taxes that she has become a trainer. MSW students Lydia Walker and Cheryl Fergerson have also achieved ADVANCED certification. These accomplishments showcase the excellence and dedication of our MSW students. Congratulations, Debbie! Congratulations, Lydia! Congratulations, Cheryl! Dr. Susan Neely -Barnes Congratulations to Dr. Susan Neely -Barnes, MSW Program Coordinator, who has been awarded a Provost’s Fellowship. The Provost’s Fellowship is a 100% time commitment for the Fall 2014 semester in the Provost’s Office. Congratulations, Dr. Neely -Barnes on achieving this honor! Dr. Susan Elswick Congratulations to Dr. Susan Elswick, Director of MSW Field Placement, on having an article accepted for publication! Dr. Elswick’s article entitled Merging the Nonviolent Crisis Intervention Model and the Func tional Behavior Assessment Process has been accepted for publication in the Fall 2014 issue of Journal of Safe Management. Congratulations, Dr. Elswick! Social Work Faculty Spotlight UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHI S DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL WORK JANUARY 2014 4 National Slavery and Human Trafficking Prevention Month 2from Tennessee in 2012. Of those 219 calls, 41, the highest number in the report, came from right here in Memphis. This number was an increase from 27 calls received from the Memphis area in 2011. Slavery and human traff icking, in its various forms, are not just an international problem taking place outside the borders of our country and city. It could be happening in the places we shop, in our neighborhoods, or even next door. If you see something suspicious that could be human trafficking, please rep ort it to the National Human Trafficking Hotline at 1-888 -373 -7888 . For more information, statistics, and resources visit or enditmovement.com . Presidential Proclamation On Decem ber 31 st, 2013, President Barack Obama issued a presidential proclamation declaring January 2014 National Slavery and Human Trafficking Prevention M onth. His words in the December 2013 press release include the following: “This month, I call on every nati on, every community, and every individual to fight human trafficking wherever it exists. Let us declare as one that slavery has no place in our world, and let us finally restore to all people the most basic rights of freedom, dignity, and justice.” To rea d the press release in its entirely, visit -press -office/2013/12/31/presidential -proclamati on-national -slavery -and -human -trafficking -prevent . 1An estimated 27 million slaves exist in our world today. When you hear those numbers, do you think it sounds like more of an international prob lem? If it does occur in our coun try, it probably isn’t happening in our state or city, right? Unfortunately, the statistics say otherwise. Out of the hundreds of thousands of people traffi cked around the world each year, approximately 17,500 are trafficked int o the United States. That number does not include those who are already being bought and sold within our borders. In fact, the National Human Trafficking Resource Center (NHTRC) received 219 hotline calls reporting suspected human trafficking incidents UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHI S DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL WORK JANUARY 2014 5 Upcoming Events and Announcements MSW Student Field Rotation There are still 4 available slots for the March MSW field rotation hosted by the University of Tennessee Boling Center for Developmental Disabilities. On March 31 st and April 2nd, participating students have the opportunity for observation and didactic learning on Parent Child Interaction Therapy, Applied Behavior Analysis, Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities, Speech Language Pathology, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity D isorder, and much more! Prior approval from Dr. Elswick is required. To register, email Ashley Annestedt, LCSW, at annested@uthsc.edu , Re: Field Rotation. Undergraduate Field Forum Two informational sessions regarding internships for undergraduate students will be held on Monday, February 10 th from 4:00 -5:15pm and Thursday, February 13 th from 4:00 -5:15pm in Manning 222. If you are an und ergraduate student nearing the completion of your core social work courses, please make plans to attend one of these sessions. Social Work Success Seminar The BA faculty of the Department of Social Work is completi ng plans to host a Social Work Success Seminar at the beginning of the spring semester. The seminar is mandatory for all undergraduate pre -social work and undergraduate social work majors for both day and evening students. The seminar will take place Jan uary 31 st from 9:30am -12:00pm in the University Center Theater Room 145. The purpose of the meeting is to discuss the status of the social work program with those who have expressed an interest in joining the profession and to familiarize everyone with th e multiple aspects of the program and major. UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHI S DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL WORK JANUARY 2014 6 Upcoming Events and Announcements (cont’d) 2014 Social Work Day on the Hill Be sure to mark your calendars for the 2014 Social Work Day on the Hill (SWDOH) to be held on Wednesday, March 26, 2014 at the War Memorial Auditorium in Nashville, Tennessee! SWDOH is coordinat ed by the Tennessee Chapter of NASW in coordination with the University Social Work Programs across the state. A highlight of SWDOH is the policy poster presentations that are presented by students and judged by Tennessee social work policy experts. Last year’s SWDOH participants from the Unive rsity of Memphis are pictured (right) with the award for their winning MSW policy poster presentation! Field Instructor of the Year Calling all field students! Every year, students have th e ability to nominate their field instructor for the Field Instructor of the Year Award. This is a prestigious honor for field instructors and a great way for students to thank their field instructors for all of their guidance and supervision. The Field Instructor of the Year will be announced at the Field Instructor Luncheon. P lease take the time to nominate your field instructor by completing a brief evaluation by March 31, 2014 : cas.co1.qualtrics.com/SE/?SID=SV_blloC2 70h4fboPj . Student of the Year Nomination Calling all field instructors! Every year, field instructors have the ability to nominate an outstanding student (either BSW or MSW) for the Student of Year Field Award. Please take the time to complete this nomination and provide detailed information about the student’s abilities. The student will be honored at both the Field Instructor Luncheon and at the Student Awards Ceremony later this year. Deadline for student nominations is March 31, 2014 . Nominations should be submitted online via the following link: EpyYoAxhHuJ . UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHI S DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL WORK JANUARY 2014 7 Job Postings 2counseling, domestic violence counseling, sexual and/or other abuse counseling, grief counseling, behavior modification, anger management, and/or parenting education. Applicants must poss ess strong organizational and time management skills; pay attention to detail; have excellent written, verbal, and oral skills; be able to manage multiple priorities simultaneously; and have access to a computer, printer, and internet service. Reliable transportation is a must and a favorable driving record is required. Interested? Please email your resume to epittman@exchangeclub.net . House of Grace The House of Grace in Southaven, MS has immediate open ings available for a full -time shelter aide, part -time shelter aide, and a part -time court advocate. For details, visit their website at houseofgracems.org . Shelby Residential & Vocational Services (SRVS) In Jan uary/February 2014, SRVS is seeking to hire 2 Behavioral Analysts and 1 Behavior Specialists. Applications to do have to have passed the BACB yet, but they must qualify for DIDD Provisional BA for billing purposes. Description of qualifications can be fo und here: vior/1Behavior Provider Qualifications.pdf . Applications can be completed online at or in person at SRVS. Looking for additional job postings? Visit the Career Center for the Department of Social Work at ss.com . 1Agape Child & Family Services Agape is seeking a part -time applicant for the Siemer Connector position (grant -funded) to provide client -driven and strength -based services to families who are in need of particular resources and assistance. This part -time position will require at least 20 hours per week. Quali fied applicants will possess a willingness to meet people where they are, build meaningful relationships, and facilitate the connection and engagement of clients to needed community services. A Bachelor’s degree in social work or other related field is pre ferred, but peer -based/community -based applicants with a high school diploma or GED will also be considered. Candidate must be culturally sensitive with a passion for helping others, be computer literate, have a valid driver’s license and own a vehicle wi th proof of auto insurance, and be willing to engage in Agape’s Performance Quality and Improvement standards of quality and excellence. To apply, send a detailed resume with references to Agape Child & Family Services, Inc. Office Administrator Nichole L ove, BBA, via email to Nichole.Love@AgapeMeansLove.org . Exchange Club Family Center Independent contractual workers are needed by the Exchange Club Family Center to serve as In-home Family Service Pr oviders (FSP) for children and families referred for intensive services through the Tennessee Department of Children’s Services. Master’s level counselors and social workers with at least one year of clinical experience working with youth and families are preferred. Relevant experience includes providing individual/family Have a story to share? If you would like to share information about an upcoming agency or community event, have a story to share, would like to highlight a student completing field placement at your agency, or would like to contribute to other ideas for this newsletter, send submissions to the Newsletter Coordinator/Editor: Dr. Susan Elswick Clinical Assistant Professor/Director of MSW Field Placement University of Memphis Department of Social Work 115 McCord Hall Memphis, TN 38152 selswick@memphis.edu 901-678-4722 UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHI S DEPARTMENT OF SOCI AL WORK JANUARY 2014 Deanna Nick MSW Student/Newsletter Manager Dr. Susan Elswick Newsletter Coordinator/Editor University of Memphis Department of Social Work