#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/newsletters/2014february.pdf
University of Memphis Department of Social Work February 2014 MONTHLY NEWSLETTER A Special Announcement! Hello, readers! Did you hear our very important announcement earlier this month? The University of Memphis Department of Social Work proudly announced that the Master of Social Work (MSW) program is now fully accredited by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE). Pl ease join us in celebrating this great accomplishment! More information on page 2. In addition to bringing you this new and exciting program development, we would like to remind you about some action items from our January 2014 issue . The Department of S ocial Work is currently accepting nominations for both Student of the Year and Field Instructor of the Year. We are also making preparations Field Agency Fair, and we want to see your organization there! For more information about dates a nd deadl ines for these items, see page 3 . Send us your nominations and reservations Deanna Nick Newsletter Manager If you noticed an unusually large number of your coworkers or those around you in the community wearing red on Friday, February 7 th , it was no coincidence. Hundreds of thousands of people around the country joined together and donned clothing in all shades of re d in support of the American Heart Month. Another important part of American Heart Month is the Go Red for Women campaign. According to the American Heart Association, heart disease is the number one killer o f American Heart Month and tips you can use to stay healthy on page 4. Check it out! February is American Heart Month 2 4 5 7 A special announcement ab out the University of Memphis Department of Social Work Master of Social Work program Information about American Heart Month and what you can do to reduce your personal risk for heart disease A study into the need for a research oriented program leading to a Doctoral degree (Ph.D) in Urban Affiars Salary negotiation tips for social workers submitted by Danielle Seemann, LCSW, LSSW Job postings and volunteer opportunities in and around the Memphis area 8 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work is accredited by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE)! University of Memphis Department of Social Work February 2014 2 PRESS RELEASE FEBRUARY 10, 2014 The University of Memphi (MSW) p rogram was granted initial accreditation by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) at the recent Commission on Accreditation meeting. The program will be reviewed for reaffirmation of accreditation in Februar y 2018. The CSWE is the sole accrediting body for social work education in the United States. In the state of Tennessee, licensure at the LMSW (masters social worker), LCSW (clinical social worker) and LAPSW (advanced practice social worker) requires a ma - accredited program. Seventy - four students are currently enrolled in the 60 - hour program. Twenty students graduated last spring; another 27 are expected to graduate in May. extra curricular events with community partners, the University of Memphis MSW program has continuously provided me unique opportunities to learn and to further develop the wide range of professional skills needed for ethical and competent said Stacy Elliot, a full - time, talented faculty members are accessible, supportive and willing to engage with students collaboratively. been an incredible asset t hroughout grad school to have learned so much from and because of my Accreditation of the program allows MSW students like Elliot to be prepared to explore numerous opportunities and to advanc e their profession within the field of social work. ork program accredited, and it has paid off. Congratulations to everyone who made this happen and, especially, to the first graduating class who had faith we would get there. Dr. Stan Hyland, head of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy, added, Memphis responded to the needs of the Memphis community by moving quickly to institute a rogram that is clearly directed to communities and families. The Social Work Program enables us to be a major partner with the city of Memphis, local foundations and social service agencies in their joint efforts to address those in need because of poverty and related challenges. In the coming years, this program will make a difference in the quality of life for many in the Mid - The MSW program is accepting applications for the 2014 - 2015 academic year. Those interested may apply at . University of Memphis Department of Social Work February 2014 3 Calling all Field Instructors! Do you have a student completing field placement in your agency that is performing above and beyond expectations? You have the opportunity to honor that student in a very unique way! Every year, field instructors have the ability to nominate an outstanding student (either BSW or MSW) for the Student of Yea r Field Award. Please take the time to complete this nomination and provide detailed information The student will be honored at both the Field Instructor Luncheon and at the Student Aw ards Ceremony later this year. The d ea dline for student nominations is March 31, 2014. Nominations should be submitted online via the following link: SE/?SID=SV_1BQi EpyYoAxhHuJ . Ca lling all field students! Do you have an outstanding field instructor? Every year, students have the ability to nominate their field instructor for the Field Instructor of the Year Award. This is a prestigious honor for field instructors and a great way for students to thank their field instructors for all of their guidance and supervision. The Field Instructor of the Year will be announced at the Field Instructor Luncheon. Please take the time to nominate your field instructor by completing a brief evaluation by March 31, 2014: SE/?SID=SV_blloC270h4fboPj . Nominations for Student and Field Instructor of the Year Have an outstanding field student? What about a great fiel d want to miss this unique opportunity to nominate them for a prestigious award! The University of Memphis Department of Social Work will host the 2nd Annual Field Agency Fair on Friday, March 28, 2014 from 9:00am - 12:00pm. This is a wonderf ul opportunity for agencies to meet our BSW and MSW students, pre - interview them, gather resumes, and network with other local clinicians and agencies. on providing internships for students (BSW and MSW) for the 2014 - 2015 acade mic year, and if your agency is hiring new graduates, this will also be an opportunity to recruit new employees. The Agency Fair will be held in the Rose Theater on the University of Memphis campus. If you are a field instructor that would like to attend, please complete this survey to confirm your attendance: U1ak7NR2Weix . Social Work Field Agency Fair Day Social Work Field Agency Fair to be held March 28 th , 2014. University of Memphis Department of Social Work February 2014 4 Heart disease is the leading cause of death for both men and women. To prevent heart disease and increase awareness of its effects, the University of Memphis Department of Social Work is proudly participating in American Heart Month. According the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 1 in 4 deaths in Te nnessee are caused by heart disease and related illnesses. In addition, the Tennessee Department of Health reports 1,290 per 100,000 Shelby Country residents were hospitalized in 2009 due to heart disease related complications. Worried about your risk for heart disease? You can make healthy changes to lower your risk of developing heart disease. Controlling and preventing risk factors is also important for people who already have heart disease. American Heart Month: What is Your Risk for Heart Dis ease? To lower your risk: Watch your weight. Quit smoking and stay away from secondhand smoke. Control your cholesterol and blood pressure. If you drink alcohol, drink only in moderation. Get active and eat healthy. For more information, visit the American Heart Association website at . University of Memphis Department of Social Work February 2014 5 Dr. Catherine Simmons, Associate Professor, is conducting a study with her colleague Dr. Stan Hyland, Head of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy, into the need for a research oriented program leading to a Doctoral degree (Ph.D.) in Urban Affairs . Should a need be identified, the degree would have a interdisciplinary focus on the needs of urban environments with a concentration in topics specific to th Brief Program Description: The nature, purpose, and scope of the proposed Ph.D. in Urban Affairs will be an interdisciplinary degree advancing theoretical understanding of urban affairs through inquiry - driven examination of urban issues and challenges. The program would provide graduates with the knowledge and abil ity to advanc e the understanding of urban systems, the capacity to demonstrate applied public policy problem - solving based on research and data, and the skills to engage with community constituents as partners in those enterprises. The combination of training in theor y development and application would prepare graduates for careers in education, public, nonprofit, and private sector positions as careers as advanced policy analysts, researchers, and administrators. Dr. Simmons would like to invite you to participate in this needs assessment. The survey consists of 3 parts and should take no more than 20 minutes to complete. The first part is a standard form asking for your consent to participate in this research study (needs assessment). Please review this document and select either affirm or deny button at the bottom of the first page. The second part includes the needs assessment questions. This section includes a mixture of close - ended and open - ended questions that will be used to help identify areas of interest and need in the community. The third part includes demographic questions that will help the research team target needed resources. Please answer these questions to the best of your ability. The findings of the survey will be used to determine the need for su ch a program, construct a program proposal, and guide curriculum development. If you are willing to participate, please click here: _3Dx3T2lDiXb2St7 . Feel free to forward this survey link to others who may wish to participate. Thank you in advance for your willingne ss to participate . Doctoral Program Survey GO!SW Updates Congratulations to the newly elected GO!SW officers! Megan Broadstr eet - President Treshain Norfleet - Vice - President Jasmine Johnson - Secretary Kerrel Ard - Liason Wendi Albert - Treasurer John Barsotti - Sergeant at Arms Graduate Organization of Social Work (GO!SW) Elects New Officers GO!SW Upcoming Events GO!SW meetings are held on the first Tuesday of every month, and at their next meeting, the group will be collecting art supplies to donate to the Exchange Club Family Center. Members of GO!SW will join with other MSW program students to participate in the Policy Poster/Presentation at Social Work Day on the Hill. MSW students interested in participating should email Megan Broadstreet at mbrdstrt@mem phis.edu . Are you a graduate student interested in GO!SW membership? Contact Wendi Albert at wkalbert@memphis.edu . University of Memphis Department of Social Work February 2014 6 Social Work Success Seminar is a Huge Success! On January 31 st , 2014, the BA Faculty of the Department of Social Work hosted the Social Work Success Seminar. The Semin ar is an extended orientation session for social work majors where Department of Social Work faculty can discuss several issues that are important for students to know in regard to the BASW program. There were over 155 undergraduate social work majors in attendance! Here are some photos from the d a y s e v e n Phi Alpha Honor Society Induction Dr. Robin Lennon - Dearing and Dr. Susan Elswick, faculty advisors for the Phi Alpha Honor Society for Social Work Students, are gearing up for the Spring 2014 induction of new Phi Alpha members. The induction and reception is scheduled for April 18 th , 2014 . Alpha Honor society is to provide a closer bond among students of social work and promote humanitarian goals and ideals. Phi Alpha fosters high standards of education for social workers and invites into m embership those who have attained excellence in scholarship and achievement in social work. Earned Income Tax Credit Awareness Day Dr. Elena Delavega, Assistant Professor, played a role in the recent Earned Income Tax Credit Awareness Day. The Awareness Day activities took place at the Hickory Ridge Mall Free Tax Prep site and included appearances by Congressman Steve Cohen, Mayor AC Wharton, and Shelby Recent Department of Social Work Events Social Work Success Seminar participants inside the University Center Theater Room Social Work Success Seminar Volunteers: Stephanie Lovins, Alexis Batts, Beunca Logan, Jherrel Jones, Gwendolyn Nichols, not pictured - Britnee Stringfellow University of Memphis Department of Social Work February 2014 7 By Danielle Seemann My fellow social workers, are you often perplexed when ver list a By pla cing a previous salary on your application, you can hurt your chances of being called to an interview. You must remember, in most cases, your resume must cross paths with the human resources department prior to reaching the hiring manager. Human resource s departments are looking for cookie cutter resumes. You may have all the skills required for a job, but may be passed over by human resources for a few different reasons: 1. Your previous salary is significantly less than what your desired agency pays. Hu man resources may pass you by automatically considering you unqualified. 2. You live out of town. (That is a topic for another day.) 3. Yours is likely one in hundreds of resumes. If your eye - catching resume is lucky enough to be chosen, you may be pressured into giving a desired salary. Wait! Defer giving a desired salary until you are offered the job. Then, you have a bargaining chip. Once offered the job, your previous salary, if listed on your application, can harm your potential salary. For example, i f you are making $28,000 and you would like to earn $40,000 at your desired job, they can argue that $40,000 is too much when you were making only $28,000 at your last job. NEVER LIST YOUR PREVIOUS SALARY! By waiting until the job offer to talk about sal ary, you can also negotiate benefits. If you have already scheduled a honeymoon Negotiate your plans with the start of your new job. I have done this! You can also negotiate LCSW supervision with your job. Once you accept the job, you will never have that leeway again. Do not accept the first offer. Hold off and see if they will offer you more. Good Luck! Salary Negotiation Tips for Social Workers Upcoming Events February 21 - 22, 2014 Hos ted by the Philosophy Graduate Student O rganiza tion, this conference is free and open to the public. For details, visit /phi losophy/pgsa_2014.ph p . March 22, 2014 Comprehensive Grant Writing Workshop to be offered by A Bridge of Hope (ABOH). $75 for ABOH members/$100 for non - members. Visit grant - writing - conference - 2014/ for details. Mental Illness & Power Conference DSM - V Con tinuing Education F ebruary 27 , 2014 Offered in Nashville, TN this DSM - V conference is $100 for NASW members/$130 for non - members. Visit vents/event_details.asp?id= 397290 to register. University of Memphis Department of Social Work February 2014 8 Bridge Builders Summer Conference Positions for Students BRIDGES is excited to announce tha t they are currentl y accepting applications for Bridge Builders Summer Conference positions. Students can view position descriptions and apply now through Friday, February 28 th at summerapply . In total, there are over 42 open positions, including 30 AmeriCorps positions. Friends for Life New Housing Program Friends for Life is in need of a Program Manager and Case Manager for the Aloysius Scattered Site housing program. Applications can be obtained at p.org/employment/ . Application materials can be sent to gina.fortner@friendsforlifecor p.org . In - Home Family Service Providers with The Exchange Club Family Center Independent contractual workers are needed by the Exchange Club Family Center to serve as In - home Family Service Providers (FSP) for children and families referred for intensive services through the Te nnessee Department of level counselors and social workers with at least one year of clinical experience preferred. Interested? Email your resume to epittman@exchangeclub.net . Job Postings Looking for additional job postings like these? Visit the Career Center for the Department of Social Work at phis.wordpress.com . Are you looking for volunteer opportunities in and around the Memphis area? A Bridge of Hope has a variety of different ways that you can volunteer. For a list of opportunities are available throughout the year from se rving the homeless, those in prison, human trafficking and abuse victims, and so much more, contact A Bridge of Hope at buildingbridgestogether@yahoo.com . For more information about this organizatio n, visit their website: . Volunteer Opportunities University of Memphis Department of Social Work February 2014 If you would like to share information about an upcoming agency or community event, have a story to share, would like to highlight a student completing field placement at your agency, or would like to contribute other ideas for this newsletter, send submissions to the Newsletter Coordinator/Editor: Dr. Susan Elswick Clinical Assistant Professor/Director of MSW Field Placement University of Memphis Department of Social Work 115 McCord Hall Memphis, TN 38152 selswick@memphis.edu 901 - 678 - 4722 Have a story to share? Deanna Nick MSW Student/Newsletter Manager Dr. Susan Elswick Newsletter Coordinator/Editor University of Memphis Department of Social Work