#http://www.memphis.edu/presweb/about/
About President M. David Rudd - Office of the President - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Office of the President About Mission and Plan Communications Leadership Contact Home Office of the President About About President M. David Rudd M. David Rudd was named the 12th president of the University of Memphis (UofM) on May 1, 2014. He previously served as the University's provost and brings a distinguished 30 year academic and research record to the position. Throughout his career, he has been responsible, in part, for more than $18 million in research grant funding, including more than $3 million for research to help military populations through the U.S. Army/Department of Defense Military Operational Medicine Research Program. He continues his affiliation with the National Center for Veterans Studies at the University of Utah and the University of Memphis as co-founder and scientific director, a role that has garnered much national attention. His recent clinical trial targeting suicide attempters in the military demonstrated historic success, reducing post-treatment risk for attempts by more than sixty percent. He has testified seven times before the U.S. Congress on issues related to veterans and suicide and is a sought after expert by the national media. As the chief executive officer and leader of the University of Memphis executive team, Dr. Rudd is involved in all aspects of university life, cutting across academic, financial, development, community relations, research, and athletics. The UofM is a comprehensive doctoral-extensive institution with approximately 22,000 students who have opportunities for study in 250 different areas within our eleven colleges and schools. The economic impact of the University of Memphis to the local economy approximates $1.43 billion. From our opening in 1912, it was reasoned that "every great city deserves a great university," establishing the foundation for a relationship that has endured for more than 100 years. The University of Memphis engages in a broad range of important and impactful efforts with the Memphis community. Under Dr. Rudd's leadership, the UofM has implemented strategies that will expand these efforts, improve overall efficiency, celebrate their enduring success, and enable us to work with the community in a thoughtful manner - as we plan our future together. We continue to engage community leaders in the design of academic programs that meet specific employer and employee requirements. Additionally, we work with government, business, philanthropic and community organizations in cutting-edge research, and are committed to service that meets the unique needs in the mid-south and our nation. During his tenure at the UofM, President Rudd has emphasized the need to improve access, accountability, flexibility, and innovation at all levels. Initiatives for students focus on admissions and enrollment, streamlined advising processes, academic coaching and mentorship, targeted financial support for students withdrawing prior to completion, academic and administrative efficiency, and a commitment to holding the line on tuition increases. Student success is a priority at the University of Memphis. Under his leadership, our freshman applications have increased by 186%, our donor commitments are at their highest level in five years, and, after no tuition increase during the 2014-15 academic year, the tuition increase for undergraduates during the current academic year has been held to 3.7%, the lowest increase since 1997. Fundraising reached a record level during his first year, exceeding $37 million, and the University is poised to open a new living-learning facility, the Community Health Building that will house the Loewenberg School of Nursing and the School of Communication and Sciences and Disorders. The UofM will break ground on a new recreation facility this coming year, one that promises to be among the best in the nation, along with new athletics facilities. Fundraising continues for both a music performance facility and a new research building. Dr. Rudd earned the Ph.D. from the University of Texas at Austin in psychology and holds a master's degree in psychology from there as well. He holds a bachelor's degree from Princeton University. He and his wife, Dr. Loretta Rudd, an associate professor, clinical, at the University of Memphis, have two children, Nicholas and Emma. Dashboard UofM steps towards success Year of Service Initiative Learn how your service hours can provide scholarships for students! President's Blog News, stories, videos and more Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .