#http://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/econ/2015FECON7300001.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus ECON 7300: Economic Theory and Decisions Fall, 2015 3 credit hours Instructor: Dr. Carmen Astorne - Figari Email : cmstrnfg@memphis.edu Office: 427 FCB Office Hours : By Appointment Class: M, 1:30 - 4 :30, 262 FCB Website: eCourseware Graduate Assistant: Jobu Babin, jbabin@memphis.edu , 111 FEC, office hours by appt. Course Overview : This course is designed as a basic exposition of standard consumer and producer theory, with emphasis on optimization. We then consider measures of welfare, exchange economies, and decision - making under uncertainty and in strategic interaction. For these c oncepts, we will develop an intuitive approach, supported by quantitative analysis. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: My expectation is that students will differ in their prior exposure to microeconomic theory. I will assume that everyone has a certain level of mathematical maturity, meaning that you are comfortable with (or willing to accommodate) mathematical notation a nd argument; we will employ tools that are consistent with a mechanical knowledge of an undergraduate calculus sequence. It is crucial that if you lack such skills, you consult the professor or GA as soon as possible. It is also strongly suggested that stu dents have taken, or are concurrently enrolled in, ECON 6810 (Quantitative Economic Analysis). See college catalog or Ph.D. handbook for more information . Reference Texts: Microeconomic Theory , 11th Ed. by Nicholson, ISBN: 9781111525538 Microec onomic Analysis by Hal Varian, ISBN: 9780393957358 Location of Course Materials : The primary source of material in this course will be your class note. Problem sets, their solutions, as well as the grade book are located on the eCourseware web site . p. 2 Course Objectives : By successfully completing this course, students will be able to : 1. Understan d the mathematical representation of consumer preferences (i.e. utility functions and their meaning) . 2. Understand the consumer utility maximization problem and the deriv ation of ordinary d emand , both numerically and graphically , and understand its properties . 3. Understand the consumer expenditure minimization problem and the deriv ation of compensated d emand , both numerically and graphically , and understand its properties . 4. Understand and identify the effects of price changes on consumption. 5. Comprehend the different monetary measures of welfare. 6. Understand borrowing and lending decisions in a simple intertemporal consumption model. 7. Understand the mathematical representation of preferences over risky alternatives , the re l ated properties , and their implications . 8. Understand the principles underlying a basic general equilibrium model . 9. Understand the properties of firm production , cost and profit maximization decisions. 10. Identify the different market structures and the profit maximizing behavior that characterizes them. 11. Identify strategic situations and represent them formally as games. 12. Understand and implement solution concepts for simple two - player one - shot games. 13. Understand and implement solution concepts for simple two - player sequential games. 14. Apply basic game theory to the an alysis of quantity competition in oligopolies . 15. Apply basic game theory to the an alysis of price competition in oligopolies . p. 3 Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the M A /PhD degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with th e overall learning objectives as a student your respective program : MA ECON PhD Grading and Evaluation Criteria This section of the syllabus describes the assessed work you will be doing and how overall (final) letter grades will be computed. Final Course Grades Fina l course grades are earned according to the following table : Point Range Assigned Grade 90 - 100 A 80 - 90 B 70 - 80 C 60 - 70 D < 60 F Summary of Graded Activities Both midterm exams will be in class and closed book, meaning that you may not consult the text, your notes, or any other material, nor may you communicate with each other while taking them. These exams will be based primarily on homework and class notes (rath er than on the text or supplemental reading). Assessment Date Total Weight Midterm 1 Oct. 5 4 5 % Final Exam Dec. 9 45 % Problem Sets Below 1 0% I will not offer a makeup exam. Valid excuses for missing the exam include a verified illness or special family circumstances (e.g. death of a member of the immediate family). To be excused from the exam, you must notify me via university email before the exam begins. If you are excused, your course grade will then depend on your homework grade and on your performance on the other exam. p. 4 The final will be a take home exam, consisting of more challenging problems that will test not only your knowledge of th e topics from class, but also your ability to present solutions properly. It is designed to prepare you for the type of questions you may encounter on the department comprehensive exam, and thus, draws from your general understanding of economic theory. Th is must be typed and submitted as a .pdf file via the eCourseware dropbox by 11:59 pm on the scheduled exam date. The homework will consist of 5 problem sets, which you are required to turn in at the beginning of class on the due date, and which will be graded. These must be typed. The preferred document preparation tool is LaTex , a typesetting code protocol that is considered the standard for scientific and academic paper s. Resources related to this (and a substitute, Lyx ) will be posted on eCourseware . All problem sets (and solutions) will be posted on the class web site. These are designed to challenge and may be time intensive, with the goal of providing you with some essential tools for graduate school. On homework (and exams), focus on the completeness, clarity and logical structure of your solutions. You must pr ovide a written answer to each question; numbers or calculations with no explanation will not be satisfactory. In other words, your answers should not only directly answer the question, but also provide to a reader an explanation of how you arrived at that answer. As is usually the case in graduate school, you are encouraged to work together. However, each student must turn in his or her own write - up of the solutions in a timely manner. Failure to do so w ill result in a loss of credit. Tentative due dates are the following: Course Topics : 1. Consumer Theory 2. Intertemporal Choice 3. Decision s under Risk 4. Introduction to General Equilibrium in an Exchange Econom y : the Edgeworth Box 5. Producer Theory 6. Market Structures 7 . Basic Game Theory and Applications : Oligopoly Problem Set Tentative Due Date 1 Sept. 14 2 Sept . 28 3 Oct . 26 4 Nov. 9 5 Nov. 23 p. 5 Final Exam Schedule The final exam for this class will be Wed., Dec. 9, 2015 , scheduled according to the academic calendar website . Other Important Dates: First day of class Aug 24, 2015 / Mon Labor Day Sep 7, 2015 / Mon Fall Break Oct 10 - 13, 2015 / Sat - Tue s Last Day to Drop O ct 16, 2015 / Fri Thanksgiving Holidays N ov 25 - 29 , 2015 / Wed - Sun Last Day of Classes Dec 2, 2015 / W ed Study D ay Dec 3, 2015 / Thur Exam Week Dec 4 - 10, 2015 / Fri - Thur Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all o fficial course correspondence at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not regularly checking your email, responsibility. Attendance As this is a graduate class, the as sumption is that you all have the drive and intuition to attend all class lectures. Thus, formal attendance will n ot be taken. Your full engagement in the class begins on the first day of the semester and should be maintained until the last assignment is submitted. For students receiving funding , any lack of engagement in the course may potentially impact access to funding in the future. S tudent s are responsible for all the materia l covered in class, even if they are unable to attend. Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classro om misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. Note that using a Solutions Manual , is considered cheating. Should your professor have evidence that such behavior has occurred, she may take steps Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any question s about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . p. 6 Syllabus Changes: The instructor reserves the right to make changes as necessary to this syllabus. If changes are necessitated during the term of the course, the instructor will immediately notify students of such changes both by individual email communication and posting both notification and nat ure of change(s) on the course bulletin board. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance