#http://www.memphis.edu/english/news_and_events/news.php
What's Happening in the Department of English? - Department of English - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of English About Undergraduate Graduate People Community News/Events News and Events Recent Faculty Articles, Essays, Poems, and Short Stories What's Happening? Naseeb Shaheen Memorial Lecture Series River City Writers' Series The Pinch Newsletter Student Recognition Home Department of English News and Events What's Happening in the Department of English? What's Happening in the Department of English? Get the most up-to-date information on english department events through our facebook page . Upcoming Events The African American Literature Concentration in the Department of English presents: "Unstuck in Time: Flight and the Changing Phenotype Perceptions in Hollywood:" A Two Part Event November 5th at 7:00pm - Movie Night, Flight November 11th at 6:00pm – Reception (English Majors only) November 11th at 7:00pm – Lecture and Discussion The lecture will be led by Dr. Reginald Martin. Dr. Martin is a Full Professor of Composition and African American Literature and Chair of Tenure and Promotions in the Department of English at the University of Memphis. His latest book on racial representation in contemporary film, Words and Being, will be published in 2017 by Garland Press. Events are free and will be held in Patterson Hall 456. Reception is also free with food provided in Patterson 403. Past events The English Department hosted Dr. Alexis De Veaux, who gave a talk and a reading from her novel Yabo; September 29th. Dr. Shelby Crosby poses with her mentor, Dr. Alexis De Veaux. Dale Williams created a mesmerizing display for Discover your Major Day on October 1st! The English Department won "Honorable Mention" for their fortune teller themed display. Lauren Walker, assistant to Undergraduate Studies, and Dale Williams, Undergraduate Advisor, along with many student and instructor volunteers showed students while English should be in their future. The Shaheen Memorial Lecture Series presented a symposium of student and faculty work on October 16th followed by a lecture from Dr. Nicolas Watson on October 22nd. Awards Congratulations to our winners of the Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities Fellowship Award Winners for Spring 2016: Donal Harris, Assistant Professor, Department of English (Faculty Fellowship) Trenton Hagar, PhD student, Department of English (Dissertation Fellowship) Congratulations to Tammy Jones, winner of the College of Arts and Sciences Dean's Teaching Award ! Writings Check out Sonja Livingston's blog post about Susan B. Anthony, writing, and Women Studies. News and Events Recent Faculty Articles, Essays, Poems, and Short Stories What's Happening? Naseeb Shaheen Memorial Lecture Series River City Writers' Series The Pinch Newsletter Student Recognition Apply Now Alumni and Friends Course Offerings Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/29/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .