#http://www.memphis.edu/anthropology/graduate/globalizationdevelopmentculture.php
Globalization, Development, and Culture - Department of Anthropology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Student Life Resources Graduate Resources Current Students Future Students Home Department of Anthropology Graduate Globalization, Development, and Culture Globalization, Development, and Culture The concentration in Globalization, Development, and Culture includes three focus areas: Community Development Students focusing on community development will be trained in the application of anthropological theories and methods to understand socio-economic inequalities, and strategies of community building through active engagement in community development projects in local and international settings that promote positive social, economic, cultural and environmental change. Areas of focus within our department include community asset-based neighborhood redevelopment, participatory action research and engaged scholarship, nonprofit and faith-based development, housing and land issues, and education and schools. Students interested in community development have completed practica or research projects with national and local government and nonprofits such as community development corporations, charter schools, neighborhood associations, and historical and preservation societies. Environmental Justice and Sustainability Applied environmental anthropologists use anthropological theories and methods to better understand local and global environmental problems, and build models for cultural and ecological sustainability, and environmental justice. Areas of specific focus within our department include political ecology; gender, power and access to natural resources; traditional ecological knowledge; ecotourism; conservation; consumption and globalization; water scarcity; human adaptation; environmental health and justice. Students interested in environmental issues have completed practica or research projects with Greater Memphis Greenline, the Sierra Club, Grow Memphis, the Shelby Farms Park Conservancy and other non-profit organizations, as well as local Community Development Corporations. Cultural Heritage and Identity Students focusing on cultural heritage and identity will be trained in the application of anthropological theories and methods from cultural anthropology, applied archaeology, and museum studies to better understand the role of cultural heritage as a source for community engagement, empowerment, development, and sustainability. Areas of focus within our department include museums and communities, applied archaeology and museums, collections research, and culture, identity and power. Core Courses: The Globalization, Development, and Culture M.A. Program requires 36 hours of completed coursework. All students must take the following five courses to form the basis for competence as anthropologists, regardless of the student's chosen concentration and applied specialization. History of Anthropology Theory (ANTH 7200-8200) Methods in Anthropology (ANTH 7075-8075) Techniques of Anthropological Data Analyses (ANTH 7076-8076) Applied Anthropology and Development (ANTH 7255) Anthropological Applications (ANTH 7985) Application to all concentrations and focus areas is made during each course, and students are encouraged to focus their practical exercises within their own areas of interest in their chosen applied field. In addition to the common courses, Globalization, Development, and Culture students must also take these concentration-specific courses: Globalization, Development, and Culture (ANTH 7400) And one course from one of the three focus areas, determined in consultation with a faculty advisor: Community Development: ANTH 6051, 6120, 6253, 6412, 6415, or 7411 Cultural Heritage and Identity: ANTH 6414, 6660, 6661,6662, 6680, 7661, or 7662 Environmental Justice and Sustainability: ANTH 6111, 6220, 6414, 6431, or 6510 Elective Courses (select examples): 6051 Anthropology of Education 6120 Africa's New World Communities 6253 Anthropology of Religion 6412 Neighborhood Development and Social Entrepreneurship 6413 Anthropology of Tourism 6416 Culture, Identity and Power 6415 Anthropology of Human Rights 6510 Health, Culture, and Environmental Justice 7411 Urban Anthropology of the Midsouth 6660 Museum Collections 6661 Collections Research 6680 Applied Archaeology and Museums 7761 Museum Practices 7662 Museums and Communities 6111 Human Adaptation 6220 Cultural Perspectives on the Environment 6431 Culture and Consumerism Students in all concentrations must complete a practicum. The practicum is designed to provide hands-on experience in the student's area of interest. This allows the student to gain practical experience and make contacts in a variety of organizations and agencies and can lead to gainful employment. For a complete description of information on requirements, admission, and courses offered, see Degree Program, Requirements, and Course Descriptions. Faculty: Faculty members who serve as supervisors for this concentration include, Dr. Keri Brondo, Dr. Robert Connolly, Dr. Stan Hyland, Dr. Katherine Lambert-Pennington, Dr. Micah Trapp, and Dr. Charles Williams, who research and perform fieldwork in globalization, development, and culture issues. Many other faculty members and UofM alumni and other local practicing anthropologists contribute to our program and as practicum supervisors. Interdisciplinary Studies: The School for Urban Affairs and Public Policy (SUAPP) offers a wide range of graduate and undergraduate degree programs for both full time and part time students. It consists of five academic units designed to engage in collaborative research and outreach efforts in the community: Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice, Division of City and Regional Planning, Department of Social Work, Division of Public Administration, and Division of Health Administration. Through the units and corresponding research centers and institutes, research, outreach, and service activities are provided by faculty and students to the community through student internships, technical assistance, and consultation. Graduate Resources Current Students Future Students Undergrads: Declare Anthropology your major! Join the Graduate Program Learn about applied and engaged anthropology! News and Events Find out what's happening in the Department of Anthropology Contact Us Main office location and numbers, undergraduate and graduate advising Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .