#http://www.memphis.edu/lipman/meet_us/
Meet Us - Lipman - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Barbara K. Lipman Early Childhood School and Research Institute About Programs Research Meet Us P.A.L.S. UofM Students Contact Us Home Lipman Meet Us Sandra Brown Turner, Director As a native Memphian, I have spent my professional life working with and on behalf of children. I hold two degrees from the University of Memphis, a B.S.Ed. in Child Development (Aug.1975) and a M.S. Ed. in Educational Leadership and Administration. My history with Lipman School dates back to 1975 when I did my student teaching here and then in 1986-1987 when I was honored to be a graduate assistant. Before becoming the Director of Lipman School in July 2000, I was a tenured Associate Professor of Early Childhood Education at Southwest Tennessee Community College. I have served on numerous local, state, regional and national boards, task forces, committees, and presented workshops or keynotes all over the United States. I am published in a variety of professional journals with a particular interest in the development of spirituality in young children. It is my joy to come here each day and see the growth and development of the children, their families and their teachers. Odette Patrikios, Office Coordinator I was born in Zimbabwe, Africa, and attended business school and later immigrated to the United States with my husband and children. I joined the university several years ago and have been at Lipman School since 2003. Since becoming a staff member at the UofM I have received the university's Outstanding Customer Service Award and was a nominee for the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences's Dean's Excellence Award for Support Staff. Carol Cordeau Young, Supervising Teacher Reggio Emilia-inspired Preschool I, 2 year olds I have been a Supervising Teacher at Lipman School since 1995. After receiving a Master's Degree in Early Childhood Education/Early Childhood Special Education in 1987 from Saint Joseph College in West Hartford, Connecticut, my passion for teaching has taken me to a variety of early childhood and collegiate experiences. In addition to working with young children and university students, I present workshop sessions at the local, state, and national levels, as well as publish articles on curriculum and parenting. As the Tennessee Association for Childhood Education International 2008 Teacher of the Year, my professional interests include reflective practice, science, and literacy. Erin M. King, Supervising Teacher Reggio Emilia-inspired Preschool II, 3 year olds I have a long history with Lipman School. My journey began many when I attended Lipman as a kindergartner. I believe my early experiences in this caring and creative environment set the stage for my later academic and artistic pursuits. I returned to the University of Memphis as a young adult and earned a B.F.A. After pursuing different venues for a career, I decided to return to the University to earn a Master's Degree in Early Childhood Education. While working on my M.A.T., I was fortunate to be a Graduate Assistant at Lipman School. In the 2007-08 schoolyear I became Lipman's first atelierista/art teacher. I found that I could combine my art background and my knowledge of developmentally appropriate practice. I became the Preschool II Supervising Teacher the next year which I thoroughly enjoy. I continue to develop my own artistic yens and am an active artist in the Memphis community. Jodie Friedman, Supervising Teacher Reggio Emilia-inspired Preschool III I have been a Supervising Teacher at Lipman School since January, 2006, just after completing my student teaching assignment which was fulfilled at Lipman School and finishing my M.A.T. at the University of Memphis (May, 2006). I received my B.S. in Business Administration from Boston University in May, 2003. It was then that I knew that I wanted to be a teacher of young children. I am currently taking courses in English as a Second Language (ESL) and hope to get a certification in it. I believe that children learn best while actively engaged in a comfortable learning environment; I work daily to achieve this in my classroom. Harmony Swenson, Supervising Teacher Kindergarten I am a native Memphian and my husband and I have a two-year-old daughter. I received my B.S. Ed. in early childhood education in 1999 here at the University of Memphis. After teaching with Memphis City Schools and Shelby County Schools I was pleased to come in 2001 as the kindergarten teacher and become a part of the unique and magical environment of Lipman School. I am currently pursuing my Master's degree in Instruction and Curriculum Leadership. Jan Kidder, Supervising Teacher Montessori I, 3, 4 and 5 year olds I am a native Texan and received my undergraduate degree from the University of Dallas in 1976. After receiving my Master's degree from Vanderbilt University in 1979, I adopted Tennessee as home and I have been teaching in Memphis ever since. I hold an American Montessori Society Pre-Primary certificate from Memphis Montessori Institute, and have taught in Montessori schools, Memphis City Schools, and adjunct for Southwest Tennessee Community College. I have been the Supervising Teacher in the Montessori I classroom at Lipman School since 2000. Rachel Crown, Atelierista/Art Teacher I am originally from Kansas City, but have spent the past five years living in Des Moines, Iowa. I have two degrees from Drake University – a B.F.A. in painting and a B.A. in art history. I am currently working on my Masters of Arts and Teaching at the Memphis College of Art. My goal for the children is to help them find their own creativity and to make a safe environment for them to take risks in expressing themselves. I hope to be a guide in their journey to self-expression. It is important for the atelier/art studio to be a place where failure doesn't exist – every child is an artist, and everything he or she creates is important. Application Apply now. Calendar All the information you need for the fall and spring semester. Fees We offer full-time classes for ages 2-5, as well as after school care. Give to Lipman Thank you for your generous support! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .