#http://umwa.memphis.edu/umpolicies/UM1567.htm
UM1567 - Building Access/Key Control - The University of Memphis The University of Memphis Building Access/Key Control POLICIES Issued:&nbsp August 19, 2010 Responsible Official:&nbsp Vice President for Business & Finance Responsible Office:&nbsp Physical Plant Policy Statement Policy Statement The University of Memphis controls access to facilities, buildings and rooms by restricting the issuance of keys and fobs to authorized personnel only. University identification cards are also used to control and gain access to campus facilities. In addition, all University equipment that can be locked must be accessible for security purposes and therefore factory-issued keys and/or safe or lock combinations must be maintained in a centralized secure location. Purpose &nbsp To provide information on how the University of Memphis controls access to campus facilities, buildings and rooms. Contents Definitions WORQ AVP Keys Master Key Grand Master Key Fobs University identification card Standard Access Privileges Assigned Access Privileges Procedures General Information Level of Approving Authority Responsibilities of Approving Officials Police Services Responsibilities Physical Plant Responsibilities Business and Finance Support Services Responsibilities Responsibilities of Individuals Issued University Keys/Fobs Privately-Owned Locks Security Alarms Re-keying Requests Master/Grand Master Keys Issuance of Keys Issuance of Fobs Issuance of Access Privileges Issuance of University ID Cards New Purchases that have Locks Lost or Stolen Keys/Fobs Requests to Gain Entry FAQs I've lost my key or my key has been stolen; how do I get a new key? Where do I pick up keys or fobs? The door alarm is sounding, whom do I call? Links WORQ Request for Building Access For Regular Employees Request for Building Access for Students/Temporary Employees/Agents of the University Definitions WORQ Work Order Request Query is the web-based work order system available for students, faculty and staff to submit or review work requests. AVP Assistant Vice President Keys Keys in this policy refer to the device the University of Memphis uses to open doors or access a building. Master Key Opens every room in a building. Grand Master Key Opens multiple buildings Fobs Fobs in this policy refer to the device that the University of Memphis uses to open doors or access a building that triggers the door lock by transmitting a signal to the reader near the door access point. These are not keys. University identification card University identification cards are an authorized media that may be used to access campus facilities. Standard Access Privileges Certain access privileges are granted to groups of University faculty, staff and students based on certain criteria or attributes contained in University ERP systems. For example, all registered students are entitled access to the computer lab in the University Center or all faculty and staff who work at the Law School are entitled access to the Law School building. These privileges are identified by the door access system implementation teams. Import files are processed on a regular basis from University ERP systems to the door access systems. Assigned Access Privileges Access privileges that are not classified as Standard must be requested on an individual basis by the authorizing official by completing the Request for Building Access form and submitting it to the office responsible for the access point. For example, if an employee who works in Wilder Tower needs access to a residence hall, this is an assigned access privilege that must be requested. The authorizing official is responsible for informing the responsible office when to remove assigned access privileges. Procedures General Information The use of privately-owned locks on University facilities, buildings and rooms, etc., is not permitted. Changes in locks, re-keying, and duplication of keys may be arranged only by submitting a written work order to Physical Plant. To request a new or replacement fob, use the Request for Building Access form available on Physical Plant's and Business and Finance Support Services' web sites. The duplication of any University key by anyone other than Physical Plant is prohibited. Access to facilities that use the University ID card may be granted by different methods. General access to facilities with an ID card reader may be granted to groups of faculty, staff, or students based on certain attributes or criteria housed in University ERP databases (Banner HR, Banner Student, StarRez) which is imported into the door access systems. Exception based access requires the Request for Building Access form (available on Physcial Plant's and Business and Finance Support Services' web sites) be submitted to the designated office for that facility. Level of Approving Authority Work orders and Requests for Building Access forms must be signed by the appropriate approving official. Following is a listing of officials who are authorized to approve the issue of University keys and fobs and assignment of access privileges: President - All Types Provost - All Types Vice Presidents - All Types Vice Provosts - All Types Administrative Department Heads, Deans, Department Chairs, Directors - Department Master Keys for the concerned department, building entrance keys/fobs and individual room keys/fobs and assignment of access privileges. Responsibilities of Approving Officials Approving officials designate those individuals whose duties require the possession of University keys/fobs and assigned access privileges. One criterion used to determine this designation should be the need for access to buildings or areas during other than normal working hours. Approving authorities have the following responsibilities: Maintain a current listing of personnel to whom they have issued University keys, fobs and assigned access privileges. Conduct an annual review and verification of University keys, fobs and assigned access privileges issued under their authority, and report to the AVP for Physical Plant, the Director of Business and Finance Support Services, and the Director of Police Services the status of keys, fobs and assigned access privileges issued on their approval by April 1 each year. Collect all University keys and fobs from individuals at the termination of their employment or when their duties no longer require the possession of University keys or fobs. Notify Business and Finance Support Services of the fob holder's change in status and notify the designated office(s) to request removal of access privileges. The returned key or fob may be retained by the approving authority for use in the future but Physical Plant and Business and Finance Support Services must be notified that the key or fob is no longer in use. Investigate and report to Physical Plant, Business and Finance Support Services and Police Services incidents involving the loss of University keys or fobs. Should the key or fob be found, notify (in writing) Physical Plant, Business and Finance Support Services and Police Services of its discovery. Police Services Responsibilities Police Services will provide access to University buildings or areas for individuals who do not have a key, fob or access device and show a valid need. They will maintain a log of such access. Police Services must be advised of all electronic door opening schedules. Physical Plant Responsibilities Physical Plant is responsible for the cutting of keys, re-keying of locks, and distribution of keys and fobs, as requested. The duplication of University keys by any other person or activity is prohibited. Physical Plant will duplicate University keys only upon the written authorization of the appropriate key approving authority and is required to maintain one factory original key for all University owned assets. In addition, Physical Plant will maintain a current listing of all keys manufactured and their disposition. Physical Plant is the department responsible for installation, control and maintenance of locks, and associated hardware on University property. No University department or individual other than Physical Plant is authorized to contract or purchase services of a non-University locksmith to perform any installation, modification or repair. Physical Plant will conduct a yearly audit of issued keys and will report the results to the Vice President, Business and Finance. Business and Finance Support Services Responsibilities Business and Finance Support Services (BFSS) is responsible for processing Requests for Building Access forms for fobs, verifying authorized signatures, maintaining fob holder information in the door access databases, conducting a yearly audit of issued fobs, and processing import files from University resources into door access databases. Responsibilities of Individuals Issued University Keys/Fobs The following rules apply to all individuals to whom University keys/fobs or any access device are issued: Individuals to whom University keys and/or fobs are issued are responsible for their physical security. The loss of a University key or fob should be reported immediately to the appropriate approving authority and in writing to Police Services, Business and Finance Support Services and Physical Plant. The duplication of any University key by anyone other than Physical Plant is prohibited. Keys, fobs and ID cards are to be used only by the person to whom they are issued. Privately-Owned Locks The use of privately-owned locks on University facilities, buildings, rooms, etc., is not permitted. Security Alarms Physical Plant and Police Services do not maintain access codes for security alarms. The codes are maintained by the responsible department. Re-keying Requests Re-keying may be requested by submitting a work order request to Physical Plant and must include the building name and/or room number to which access will be permitted and the department to be charged. Requests must be submitted on the WORQ system to the Physical Plant Facility Operations Office. Requests must be approved by the departmental responsible official or designee. Requests to re-key off the building master require the approval of the department chair and dean as well as the AVP for Physical Plant and the Director of Police Services. Master/Grand Master Keys Requests to have keys removed from or added to the University Master Key System and/or the Grand Master Key System should be initiated in writing by the appropriate Dean or Vice President and must be approved by the Vice President, Business and Finance with concurrence by the AVP for Physical Plant and Director of Police Services. An email or memorandum to Facilities Operations is acceptable. For emergency purposes, a copy of keys for rooms not on the Grand Master Key System must be maintained in Physical Plant and Police Services. Issuance of Keys All requests for keys must be submitted on the WORQ system to the Physical Plant Facilities Operations Office. Work requests will only be accepted from financial managers or their designees. Requests must identify the building name and/or room number to which access will be permitted, the name and title of the person that will be responsible for the key, and the department to be charged. Issuance of individual room keys, building entrance keys and building master keys should be restricted to full-time faculty and staff members only. The issuance of a building master key to anyone other than full-time faculty and staff must be approved in writing by the dean of the respective college or school (e.g. Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, Dean of Libraries) or the appropriate Vice President. When access to University facilities is required in connection with a commercially contracted project, the AVP for Physical Plant, or designated representative, will coordinate contractors' or concessionaires' requirements and insure that the keys are controlled in an appropriate manner and returned at an appropriate time. University Police Services will be informed when keys are scheduled to be retained overnight or for a period of time beyond normal working hours. Authorizing officials should notify the Facilities Operations Office the name of the individual picking up keys if other than themselves; the individual picking up the key from the Facilities Operations Office must sign a receipt form. However, the signature of the individual responsible for the master keys or fobs is required on the Key Receipt Card kept on file in the Facilities Operations Office. Issuance of Fobs All requests for fobs must be submitted on the Request for Building Access form to Business and Finance Support Services. Requests will only be accepted with the signature of department financial manager or designees. Requests must identify the building name and/or room number to which access will be permitted, the name and title of the person that will be responsible for the fob, and the department to be charged. Issuance of fobs for individual rooms, building entrances and building masters should be restricted to full-time faculty and staff only. In the event that students, temporary employees, contractors or agents of the University require access to individual rooms or building entrances during non-work hours, the Request for Building Access for Student/Temporary Employees and Agents must be completed, signed by approving authorities with justification remarks included. Issuance of Access Privileges All standard access privileges will be imported into the door access control systems based on certain criteria and attributes from the University ERP databases. These standard access privileges are granted to the campus community based on need assessments conducted by door access system implementation teams. If the access privilege is granted based on University ERP data then no request form is required. Issuance of University ID Cards Request forms are necessary to request exception based or assigned access privileges. If the assigned access privilege is not based on University ERP data, then a request form should be completed, signed by the authorizing financial manager or designee and processed by the designated office that is responsible for access to a particular facility. University identification cards are issued to faculty, staff, students and University guests. Refer to Policy UM1623 for additional information and details regarding issuance of University ID cards and procedures for reporting lost or stolen cards. New Purchases that have Locks When a department purchases any new item having a lock which requires a key to open (i.e., a vehicle or furniture), they are strongly encouraged to give Physical Plant one factory original key. Likewise, if the University-funded item has a lock combination or is a safe, the combination to open it should be provided to Physical Plant. This will provide a safeguard in case the department loses or misplaces its key or combination. Lost or Stolen Keys/Fobs When a key or fob is stolen, contact Police Services immediately at 678-4357. Whether the key or fob is lost or stolen, a report should be filed by the approving official. This report should provide the following: Name of the official who authorized issue of the key or fob. Name of the individual to whom the device was issued. Type of key and key number. Room, building or areas to which the device provides access. Date of the discovery of the loss and any other pertinent facts. Should the device be found, notify (in writing) Physical Plant, Business and Finance Support Services and Police Services of its discovery. Requests to Gain Entry Individuals who do not possess University keys and must gain entry into a University building or area may request assistance from the University Police Services. Upon the receipt of such requests, police personnel will make positive identification of the requester, secure permission from the appropriate University official (e.g., Department Chair, Director, or Manager with administrative control of that building or space) to allow the requester to enter the designated area, admit the requester to the designated area , and advise the police dispatcher to enter a report of the action taken in the Police Radio Log. Certain keys are not available to University Police Services ( e.g., bookstore keys ) . Entrance to these facilities may be approved only by the administrator in charge of the facility. Authorizing officials who wish to allow University personnel to enter a University facility under their authority for an extended period of time (e.g., during a semester) without issuing them a key may notify Police Services by memorandum of the person's name and the circumstances of the needed access. Police Services will then coordinate the admission of the authorized individual into the designated University facility. FAQs I've lost my key or my key has been stolen; how do I get a new key? When a key or fob is stolen, contact Police Services immediately at 678-4357. Whether the key is lost or stolen, a report should be filed by the approving official before a work request is submitted for a replacement key. Should the device be found, Physical Plant, Business and Finance Support Services and Police Services should be notified in writing. See "Lost or Stolen Keys" section for details. Where do I pick up keys or fobs? Physical Plant Facilities Operations Office, 208 Ray Herzog Building. A fee will be charged for the cost of processing keys or fobs. Authorizing officials should notify the Facilities Operations Office of the name of the individual picking up keys if other than themselves. Individuals picking up the keys or fobs from the Facilities Operations Office must sign for the key or fob. However, the signature of the individual responsible for the master keys or fobs is required on the Key Receipt Card kept on file in the Facilities Operations Office. The door alarm is sounding, whom do I call? Contact Police Services at 678-4357. Links WORQ Request for Building Access For Regular Employees Request for Building Access for Students/Temporary Employees/Agents of the University Revision Dates &nbsp UM1567 Rev.2 -- updated August 19, 2010 UM1567 Rev.1 -- updated June 15, 2009 UM1567 - Issued: December 7, 2006 - supercedes policy number 2D:02:02B Subject Areas: Academic Finance General Human Resources Information Technology Student Affairs &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp