#http://www.memphis.edu/egypt/about/donation.php
Donate to the IEAA - Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology About Location Teaching Staff Research Exhibition Events Resources About IEAA Mission Statement History of the IEAA Ordering IEAA Publications Friends of the IEAA Site Map Home Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology About Donate to the IEAA Donate to the IEAA Support the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology by donating to the Institute or contributing to one of our projects. The Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology , a Tennessee Center of Excellence, is funded in part by the University of Memphis and in part directly from the State of Tennessee/TBR. In this time of dramatic funding cuts for public education, the IEAA needs your help to continue its tradition of excellence in community education, teaching, research, and exhibition. You can help the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology achieve its goals. Your tax-deductible contribution of money, goods, services or appropriately acquired antiquities to the IEAA will support many projects in both the U.S. and Egypt. Fieldwork: The IEAA conducts research and sponsors archaeological projects in Egypt: Epigraphic survey of the Great Hypostyle Hall of Karnak Temple in Luxor, Egypt Museum Collection: The IEAA maintains a collection of over 1,400 ancient Egyptian antiquities which includes mummies, religious and funerary items, jewelry, and objects of everyday life. Approximately 200 of these objects, ranging in date from 3500 B.C.E. to 700 C.E., are currently on display in the Ancient Egyptian Gallery of the Art Museum of the University of Memphis. Most of these objects were obtained by the IEAA through the generosity of private donors. It is the responsibility of the IEAA to protect and preserve these artifacts, the largest collection of ancient Egyptian antiquities in the Mid-South. Egyptological Library: With more than 6,500 volumes, the IEAA boasts one of the most extensive Egyptological libraries in the South. At the core of our holdings are the private libraries of Egyptologists H.W. Fairman, Elizabeth Thomas, and William J. Murnane. Most recently, we received a generous gift of books to the library from Dr. Christine Lilyquist, Curator Emerita in Egyptology at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York City. Many of the books in the IEAA library are in need of conservation. We also need help with purchasing new books. IEAA Projects to Support If you would like to contribute your support to specific projects of the IEAA, you have many options. Contribute to our "General" fund This supports projects chosen by the IEAA Director, Dr. Corcoran Sponsor epigraphic work in the Great Hypostyle Hall at Karnak Temple Project Director: Peter J. Brand, Ph.D. Contribute to the IEAA Library Fund For the purchase of new books and conservation of damaged, rare books in the IEAA Library Contribute toward the IEAA Publication Fund To help defray the cost of future books published by the IEAA If you would like to discuss making a special donation to the IEAA, contact the Director, Dr. Lorelei H. Corcoran. How to Donate to the IEAA - Donations can be made by check or credit card. If writing a check, please mail it directly to the University of Memphis Foundation at - University of Memphis Foundation P.O. Box 1000 Dept. 238 Memphis, TN 38148 Please make your check payable to the University of Memphis Foundation - #0695 . Please include "IEAA" and name of the specific project you wish to support in the "comment" or "memo" line on your check. Donations are tax deductible to the full extent allowed by law. For questions, contact the IEAA at 901.678.2555. About IEAA Mission Statement History of the IEAA Ordering IEAA Publications Friends of the IEAA Site Map Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .