#http://www.memphis.edu/anthropology/graduate/medicalanthropology.php
Medical Anthropology - Department of Anthropology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Student Life Resources Graduate Resources Current Students Future Students Home Department of Anthropology Graduate Medical Anthropology Concentration in Applied Medical Anthropology The subfield of Medical Anthropology brings together scholars and practitioners trained in cultural, biological and linguistic anthropology to investigate the development and distribution of health and illness within populations, alternative frameworks for defining and explaining health states, the experience of illness, and disease prevention and treatment systems. Medical anthropologists employ a range of scientific and humanistic approaches, investigating such issues as: individual and collective constructions of health and illness; health disparities; prevention initiatives; medical care; and caregiving in global perspective. Medical anthropologists favor a holistic orientation, working to understand the dynamics of health and illness within the context of larger social, ecological and political economic processes. Faculty members in this concentration share a broad interest in applying anthropological theory and methods to work toward health equity. Their specific teaching and research foci include: racial, gender, and economic health inequalities; alcohol and drug abuse; reproductive and maternal-child health; labor issues and occupational health; migration; stress; mental health; human biology and adaptation; nutrition and food access; and aging. Students in this concentration have completed practica with hospitals and clinics, non-profit and grassroots agencies, and both governmental and non-governmental organizations. For more information on medical anthropology visit Core Courses: The Medical M.A. Program requires 36 hours of completed coursework. All students must take the following five courses to form the basis for competence as anthropologists, regardless of the student's concentration/s and chosen applied specialization. History of Anthropological Theory (ANTH 7200) Methods in Anthropology (ANTH 7075) Anthropological Data Analyses (ANTH 7076) Applied Anthropology and Development (ANTH 7255) Anthropological Applications (ANTH 7985) Relevance to concentrations is incorporated into each course, and students are encouraged to focus their practical exercises within their own areas of interest in their chosen applied field. In addition to the common core courses, medical anthropology students must also take these two concentration-specific courses: Medical Anthropology (ANTH 6511) Medical Anthropology Theory and Practice (ANTH 7511) Elective Courses (select examples): Human Adaptations (ANTH 6111) Psychological Anthropology (ANTH 6251) Health, Culture, and Environmental Justice (ANTH 6510) Complementary and Alternative Medicine (ANTH 6512) Alcohol, Drugs, and Culture (ANTH 6531) Nutritional Anthropology (ANTH 6541) Culture, Sex, and Childbirth (ANTH 6551) Race and Health Disparities (ANTH 6571) Culture, Society, and Mental Health (ANTH 6595) Seminar in Biocultural Anthropology (ANTH 7100-8100) Community, Culture, and Program Evaluation (ANTH 7250) Biocultural Epidemiology (ANTH 7521-8521) Special Topics in Medical Anthropology (ANTH 7590-99) In addition, students may take Directed Readings, Research, or Writing courses, courses from the Globalization, Development, and Culture concentration, and/or collateral classes from related departments. Students should construct a course of study in consultation with their faculty advisor. All Masters candidates must complete a practicum. The practicum is designed to provide hands-on experience in the student's area of interest. This allows the student to gain practical experience and make contacts in a variety of organizations and agencies and can lead to gainful employment. For a complete description of information on requirements, admission, and courses offered, see: Degree Program, Requirements, and Course Descriptions. Faculty: Current faculty members who deal with health issues include: Dr. Linda Bennett, Dr. Michael Duke, Dr. Ruthbeth Finerman, Dr. Kathryn Hicks and Dr. Charles Williams. In addition, many alumni, community partners, and other practicing anthropologists live in the Memphis area and contribute to our program. Graduate Resources Current Students Future Students Undergrads: Declare Anthropology your major! Join the Graduate Program Learn about applied and engaged anthropology! News and Events Find out what's happening in the Department of Anthropology Contact Us Main office location and numbers, undergraduate and graduate advising Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .