#http://www.memphis.edu/english/contact/
Contact the Department of English - Department of English - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of English About Undergraduate Graduate People Community News/Events Contact the Department of English General Inquiries Faculty &amp; Staff Home Department of English Contact Contact the Department of English Graduate Programs For information about the English graduate programs and how to apply, contact Ms. Sarah Ellis in the English Graduate Office, Patterson 461, (901) 678-1448, smellis@memphis.edu , and visit the English Department Graduate pages . Undergraduate Programs For information about the English undergraduate programs, contact our Undergraduate Advisor, Ms. Dale Williams, Patterson 471, (901) 678-4500, dmwllams@memphis.edu . You can also visit the English Department Undergraduate and Undergraduate Advising pages. General Contact Information Department of English The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2651 Fax: 901.678.2226 Department Chair Dr. Joshua Phillips Patterson 467 678.2651 jsphllps@memphis.edu Assistant to the Chair, Departmental Registrar Ms. Laura Wright Patterson 469 678.4385 llwrigh@memphis.edu Director of Graduate Studies Dr. Jeffrey Scraba Patterson 455 678.4768 jscraba@memphis.edu Director of Undergraduate Studies Dr. Shelby Crosby Patterson 423 678.4583 scrosby1@memphis.edu Director of First Year Writing Dr. Joseph Jones Patterson Hall 445 678.1164 jgjones@memphis.edu Director of English Honors Program Dr. Kathy Lou Schultz Patterson 443 klschltz@memphis.edu Director of Online Programs Dr. Dmitri Stanchevici Patterson 439 678.3501 dstnchvc@memphis.edu Coordinator of Assessment Dr. Susan Popham Patterson 459 678.2845 spopham@memphis.edu African American Literature Dr. Terrence Tucker Patterson 414 tttucker@memphis.edu Applied Linguistics / ESL Dr. Teresa Dalle Patterson 401C tsdalle@memphis.edu Creative Writing Dr. John Bensko Patterson 411 678.3318 jbensko@memphis.edu Literary and Cultural Studies Dr. Carey Mickalites Patterson Hall 413 678.5631 cjmcklts@memphis.edu Professional Writing and Composition Studies Dr. Emily Thrush Patterson 401D 678.4215 ethrush@memphis.edu Undergraduate Advisor Ms. Dale Williams Patterson 471 678.4500 dmwllams@memphis.edu The Pinch Literary Journal Mr. Tim Johnston Patterson Hall 304 t.johnston@memphis.edu River City Writers Series Ms. Sonja Livingston Patterson Hall 433 slvngst2@memphis.edu Contact the Department of English General Inquiries Faculty &amp; Staff Apply Now Alumni and Friends Course Offerings Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .