#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/graduate/faqs.php
FAQs - Social Work - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Social Work About Undergraduate Graduate People Research Resources Institute Graduate About the MSW Program Brochure Program &amp; Study Plans Prospective MSW Students MSW Information Sessions Request Information Form Program Eligibility How to Apply &amp; Deadlines FAQs Current Students Student Handbook Semester Schedules MSW School Social Work Licensure Program Requirements Phi Alpha Honor Society Graduate Organization of Social Work (GO!SW) Field Field Handbook Field Agencies Forms Field Powerpoint Funding UofM Graduate Catalog Home Social Work Graduate FAQs FAQs Q: Can I transfer credits into the MSW program? A: It is possible to transfer up to twelve hours of course credit into the MSW program. Courses taken in another accredited or in candidacy MSW program may be transferred as required foundation courses. Courses taken in a graduate program in a related field to social work may transfer in as elective hours. Transfer of credit hours is subject to approval by the student's advisor and the director of the MSW program. Students seeking to transfer credits should work closely with their academic advisor. Q: Can I receive credits by examination? A: Students may receive credit by examination for up to six credit hours. Students seeking credit by examination should review the requirements and follow the procedures in the MSW student manual and the Graduate Catalog. Credit by examination may only be given in the following eight courses: SWRK 7001, SWRK 7002, SWRK 7003, SWRK 7005, SWRK 7021, SWRK 7022, SWRK 7025, and SWRK 7030. For the credit by examination form, click here. Q: Is the program accredited? A: The MSW program at University of Memphis received initial accreditation from the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) in February 2014. You may find the program listed in the directory of accredited programs here. Q:What do I do if I'm applying for the MSW program and my GPA is low? A: There is not a minimum GPA required for the program. The admissions committee considers the total application. The committee gives more weight to the last 60 of course credit taken including credit hours taken in other graduate programs. Q: Do I have to take the GRE to be admitted to the MSW program? A: Yes. Scores need to be received as close as possible to the application deadline. Q: How do I register for the GRE? A: Registration packets for the GRE may be picked up on campus at Graduate Admissions, 101 Wilder Tower, or at the Testing Center, 112 Brister Hall Contact the University of Memphis Testing Center at 901-678-2428 for more information. You can also take the test by computer by contacting the UofM ETS Computer-Based Testing at 901-678-1457. If you are outside the Memphis area, check the GRE website, for test schedule and locations. Q: Is there a minimum score on the GRE? A: There is no minimum required score. The committee looks at the writing score as well as the verbal and quantitative. Q: How many credit hours is the program? A: Full time and extended study students are required to complete a minimum of 60 semester hours: 30 hours in the foundation curriculum and 30 hours in the concentration curriculum. 6 of the 30 concentration hours are electives. Refer to the MSW Student Handbook for more information. Q: Does the MSW program offer Advanced Standing? A: Advanced Standing (3 semesters of study; 37 credit hours) is an accelerated program for students who have a BA in social work, a minimum undergraduate GPA of 3.0 overall and 3.3 in social work courses. Students interested in the Advanced Standing Program must apply to the program within five years of graduation from an accredited BA/BSW program. Graduate About the MSW Program Brochure Program &amp; Study Plans Prospective MSW Students MSW Information Sessions Request Information Form Program Eligibility How to Apply &amp; Deadlines FAQs Current Students Student Handbook Semester Schedules MSW School Social Work Licensure Program Requirements Phi Alpha Honor Society Graduate Organization of Social Work (GO!SW) Field Field Handbook Field Agencies Forms Field Powerpoint Funding UofM Graduate Catalog Why Study Social Work? The study of social work prepares you for a career in a strong growth area News Stay connected with current and pressing social work information to students, staff, faculty, and field instructors. SUAPP The Department of Social Work is a part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy. Contact Us Main office and location information. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .