#http://www.memphis.edu/law/admissions/faq.php
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Admissions Guide to Applying Comprehensive Application Guide LSAT Prep Transfer Information TN Inst. for PreLaw (TIP) Part-Time Program Schedule a Visit Academic Curriculum Apply Now Check Application Status Stats, Facts and Profile Profile and Stats Overview Class Profile Factsheet 2015 Viewbook Request a Viewbook Bragging Points Tuition, Scholarships, Financial Aid Overview of Costs Tuition Information Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition Payment Academic Curriculum Experiential Learning Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Recruiting Calendar Ask a Current Student Schedule a Visit Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) FAQ List Application Information LSAT Notification and Acceptance Curriculum Childcare City of Memphis Admitted Student Information Home School of Law Admissions Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) FAQ Feel free to contact the Law Admissions Office directly if you cannot find the answer to your Frequently Asked Question. Facts and Statistics Application Information LSAT Notification and Acceptance Curriculum Child Care Facts And Statistics What is the size of the entering class? The size of the 2014 entering class is 122. What is the enrollment at the University of Memphis School of Law? Enrollment for Fall 2014 in the law school is 340. What are the median LSAT scores and UGPA's of enrolled students? The median LSAT score for Fall 2014 was 152 and the median undergraduate grade point average was 3.28. For more specific LSAT and UGPA information, please review our profile information. This information is current as of October 2014. What is the geographic makeup of the student body? A large majority of our students are Tennessee residents, but we have approximately 11 other states represented. Application Process When is the application deadline? The application deadline for admission as a first-year student is March 15th. Are letters of recommendation required? Letters of recommendation are not required at the University of Memphis School of Law, but applicants are encouraged to submit up to three letters of recommendation. Recommendation letters should be written by former professors, instructors, or other professionals who can provide relevant information on the applicant's intellectual ability, academic performance, and potential for success in law school. Letters from personal or family friends or social acquaintances which provide only minimal information on an applicant's abilities are not considered helpful. We prefer the letters or evaluations be submitted through LSAC's Letter of Recommendation and Evaluation Service . This service is included in your CAS registration subscription. Do you grant interviews? The Law Admissions Office does not conduct evaluative interviews for the purpose of admission, but applicants are welcome to visit the law school, meet with a member of the admissions staff, observe a class, and take a tour with a student guide. To arrange a visit, contact the Law Admissions Office at lawadmissions@memphis.edu or 901.678.5403. What is the application fee? For the Fall 2014 First-Time applicants, there is no application fee. For transfer or visitor students, the fee is $25. What are some factors considered by the admissions committee? Our admissions process seeks those applicants with the greatest chance for success, both in their education and in their future careers. As a result, admission into the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law is competitive, and many different factors are considered in admissions decisions. To be considered for admission in 2014, applicants must have completed or be in the process of completing a bachelor's degree from an accredited four-year institution or the foreign equivalent and must have a score from an LSAT taken from June 2009 through February 2014. We look closely at the admission index, which is based on the applicant's undergraduate GPA and the applicant's highest LSAT score. Applicants are encouraged to explain, in an addendum, any variance in their LSAT scores. Our application requires a personal statement and the CAS report. Other factors considered in the admissions process include overall academic record, extracurricular activities, community involvement, employment, and other life experiences. Applicants are encouraged to submit letters of recommendation or evaluations addressing their potential for academic success. As a publicly assisted institution, Tennessee residents may be given preference in selection; however, non-resident applicants are encouraged to apply. Non-resident applicants are asked to provide the admissions committee with a separate addendum detailing their reasons for wanting to attend the University of Memphis School of Law. The School of Law recognizes the benefits of diversity in the classroom. We strive to create a student body representative of a wide range of social, economic, and ethnic backgrounds. In the personal statement, applicants are encouraged to identify ways in which they might contribute to the diversity of the law school. How is residency determined? At the University of Memphis, residency is determined using the regulations established by the Tennessee Board of Regents. An initial determination of residency is made based on the information submitted on the law school application. For more information on residency classification, please contact the Admissions Office at 901.678.5403. Law School Admission Test What is the LSAT exam and where do I get information about the exam? The Law School Admission Test (LSAT) is a half-day standardized test required for admission to all ABA accredited law schools. It provides a standard measure of acquired reading and verbal reasoning skills that law schools can use as one of several factors in assessing applicants. The test is administered four times a year at hundreds of locations around the world. For more information on the LSAT exam, please consult LSAC website at . Should I prepare for the LSAT exam? There are many different ways to approach the Law School Admission Test. Applicants are encouraged to prepare for the LSAT. More information on preparing for the LSAT can be found on LSAC's website. What happens if I retake the LSAT? For Fall 2014 admission, LSAT scores taken June 2009 or later will be reviewed for admission to the University of Memphis School of Law. If the applicant takes the LSAT more than once, the highest LSAT score will be used in the admissions index. Applicants are encouraged to explain, in a separate statement, any variance in their LSAT scores. Must I register with Credential Assembly Service (CAS)? Yes. All ABA-approved law schools, including the University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law, and several non-ABA-approved schools, require an applicant to register with the Credential Assembly Service (CAS). For more information on the CAS, please contact Law Services at 215.968.1001 or . The CAS provides a service including a five year subscription that prepares and provides a report for each law school to which you apply. The report contains information that is important in the law school admissions process. Your report will include: An undergraduate academic summary Copies of all undergraduate, graduate and law school transcripts LSAT scores and writing sample copies Copies of Letters of Recommendations or Evaluations if processed by LSAC Notification and Acceptance How can I check the status of my application? It is the applicant's responsibility to check on the status of his or her application. Our online application is available through LSAC . Applicants applying to the University of Memphis School of Law will receive an email with a link to our website and a code to establish an account to check the status of their application. Henceforth, the applicant can check their Memphis application status online. Applicants will also receive an email once the application is complete. Once a decision is rendered, the online status will be updated accordingly. Final decisions are mailed to the applicant's current address. Most decisions are made between January and April. When are applicants notified of admission decisions? Applicants are typically notified of admission decisions between February and April. Written notification letters are mailed to the applicant's current address. What is the deposit deadline and what is the amount of the deposit? The deposit deadline is April 15 or two weeks after notification, whichever is later. The deposit is $250.00, which is not refundable. If the applicant matriculates at the University of Memphis School of Law, $200 of the deposit is credited to his or her fall tuition. The remaining $50.00 is an orientation fee. May I defer my acceptance? Yes, deferrals are granted on an individual basis. You must pay the seat deposit of $250.00 and submit in writing a formal request indicating your reason for seeking a deferral. Deferrals are granted for one academic year. Curriculum Are faculty members accessible to students? The Faculty of Law at the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law consists of 24 academic lawyers dedicated to excellent classroom instruction and to student professional development, meaningful scholarship, and distinguished service to the community and the legal profession. These men and women offer through their courses a rich and varied curriculum designed to educate students and prepare them for a variety of career opportunities after graduation. Faculty members maintain an "open-door" policy, making them available to students. Faculty members are eager to aid students in their legal education and pursuit of a legal career. What clinical opportunities are available? The School of Law conducts legal clinics to promote the development of good lawyering skills. Students provide high-quality legal services to clients under the direct supervision of supervising attorneys, all of whom are full-time faculty members. Students interview clients, conduct factual and legal investigations, provide client counseling, negotiate, and draft relevant documents and pleadings. Students also may prepare and try civil cases in several of the clinics. For more information concerning the Clinic, see What is the average course load? The school operates on the semester system and requires 90 semester hours for the Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree. A full-time student is required to enroll in at least 12 hours each semester, and the average course load is usually between 14 and 16 hours per semester. Students in the full-time program normally graduate in three years. Is there summer school? Summer classes are available, but they are not mandatory. Some students graduate after five semesters and two summer sessions of full-time study. Does Memphis have any areas of concentration? The upper-level curriculum permits students to take courses in specialty areas of law, develop fundamental lawyering skills, and concentrate their legal education in particular areas of interest. Childcare Is there a childcare facility on campus? The University of Memphis provides a child care facility on its main campus. The facility's phone number is (901) 678-5059 and is located at 3875 Tiger Paw South. In order to qualify for child care services, there are several requirements: Parent or legal guardian must be currently enrolled at the University of Memphis Children must be from 30 months to 12 years Parent must sign a contract with the facility Child's immunization record must be current and submitted to the facility $30.00 registration fee (non-refundable) $2.50 per hour charge for child care service The facility is open Monday through Thursday from 7:30 a.m. – 9 p.m.; Friday from 7:30 a.m. – 4:30 p.m.; and Saturday from 8 a.m. – 12:30 pm. Admissions Guide to Applying Comprehensive Application Guide LSAT Prep Transfer Information TN Inst. for PreLaw (TIP) Part-Time Program Schedule a Visit Academic Curriculum Apply Now Check Application Status Stats, Facts and Profile Profile and Stats Overview Class Profile Factsheet 2015 Viewbook Request a Viewbook Bragging Points Tuition, Scholarships, Financial Aid Overview of Costs Tuition Information Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition Payment Academic Curriculum Experiential Learning Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Recruiting Calendar Ask a Current Student Schedule a Visit Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) FAQ List Application Information LSAT Notification and Acceptance Curriculum Childcare City of Memphis Admitted Student Information Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .