#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbephd/academics/retention_appeal.php
Policy For Retention Appeal Hearing - FCBEPhD - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Doctoral Programs Welcome Programs Students Faculty &amp; Staff Research News FCBE Academics Curriculum Program Concentrations Ph.D. Degree Learning Outcomes How To Apply Students Information for Students Program Policies Policy For Retention Appeal Hearing Alumni News FAQs Contact Us Home FCBEPhD Academics Policy For Retention Appeal Hearing Policy For Retention Appeal Hearing (As Approved by the Graduate Council of the Fogelman College April 17, 2002, and amended May 1, 2002) A retention appeal to the College on the part of a graduate student is initiated on the part of the student by informing the Dean of the Fogelman College of Business and Economics in writing. The Dean’s Office then refers the appeal to the Graduate Council. The following procedures serve as the basis for the Graduate Council’s actions on behalf of the Fogelman College. The Graduate Council, excluding ex-officio members, will hear the appeal. For the purpose of a PhD student retention appeal, the PhD Sub-council Chairperson will chair the Council. For a master student appeal the Masters Sub-council Chairperson will chair the Council. If the designated Sub-council Chair cannot chair the hearing the other Sub-council Chair will do so. The Associate Dean for Academic Programs will act on the Council’s behalf in receiving all relevant information and communicating with all relevant parties as discussed below. According to university policy the date for the hearing must be set and all parties notified within 15 class days of receipt of the student’s request for a hearing. We interpret all parties at this point to be the student, the Department Chair and the Department Committee. In the notification of the date and time of the hearing, the Council will request all relevant information pertaining to the appeal including the student’s initial departmental appeal, the departmental response (which includes any record of deliberations of the examination committee, the department committee and any written response to the student on the part of the department by the department chair) and the student’s request to the Graduate Council for an appeal hearing and any supporting materials provided by the student up to that point. Any of the parties may provide additional supporting evidence or request, in writing providing rationale and justification, that other relevant individuals provide materials or testimony on their behalf. The Graduate Council will determine the relevancy of additional testimony and may or may not request the participation of the other named individuals at the hearing itself. If the Department Chair, any member of the Department Committee or any individual providing written evidence or testimony to the Council is also a member of the Council, they will be recused from the hearing. All materials received by the Graduate Council will be distributed to all parties in a timely fashion. If additional witnesses on the behalf of any party are requested the Graduate Council will notify them of the hearing and procedures for participating at this time. All parties will have the opportunity for presenting the facts, as they understand them. The Council will have already reviewed all documents and presentations should be succinct and to the point. All presentations will be formal presentations or rebuttal and responses to questions at prescheduled times. There will be no debate, but any participant may ask for a clarification of a statement or allegation with the consent of the Chair of the Council. Initial presentations will be limited to no more than 15 minutes. Rebuttal and closing remarks will be limited to no more than ten minutes. The order of the hearing will be: student presentation, department committee presentation, Department Chair presentation, presentation by additional witnesses, questions to each by Council members, rebuttal by the student, rebuttal and closing remarks by the department committee, rebuttal and closing remarks by the Department Chair, recall of witnesses and other parties for questions by the Council if necessary, rebuttal and closing remarks by the student. All presenters and witnesses will be excused from the hearing. Based on the evidence and testimony provided, the Graduate Council will determine whether or not there is a basis for overturning the retention decision of the Department. In the event that there are remaining questions, any of the parties involved may be called back for additional information or clarification of testimony. After all deliberation has taken place the final decision will be based upon the majority vote of the Council members present at the hearing, with the Chair voting only to break a tie or force a tie, on the following motions. Motion A: “Upon reviewing all evidence and hearing all testimony the Graduate Council has determined that there is no cause for overturning the retention decision of the Department and the Graduate Council does not reinstate the student in the program.” If and only if this motion fails the Council will consider Motion B: “Upon reviewing all evidence and hearing all testimony the Graduate Council has determined that there is appropriate cause to overturn the retention decision of the Department and hereby reinstates the student in the program.” The Graduate Council will convey the outcome to all parties within seven class days. The Graduate Council will make no other recommendations concerning the appeal at this time, only to overturn the retention decision of the Department or not. The Dean’s Office will also inform all relevant parties of the opportunity for appeal. Academics Curriculum Program Concentrations Ph.D. Degree Learning Outcomes How To Apply Students Information for Students Program Policies Policy For Retention Appeal Hearing Alumni News FAQs Contact Us Program Concentrations Learn about our doctoral offerings! Information for Students Looking for forms or policies? Look no further! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .