#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/cas/crim.php
Criminology and Criminal Justice - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Criminology and Criminal Justice Criminology and Criminal Justice School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice Criminology and Criminal Justice Major (B.A.) Program objectives for a B.A. in Criminology and Criminal Justice are: (a) exhibit an understanding of the important functions, organization, and fundamental concepts of the operation of the criminal justice system (police, law/courts, corrections) in a democratic society; (b) acquire knowledge of the development of the components of the criminal justice system from an historical and cross-cultural perspective; (c) know the major theorists and theoretical orientations that help explain criminal behavior; (d) be able to understand, analyze, and critically evaluate basic research and data relevant to crime and the criminal justice system; (e) demonstrate an ability to formulate a thesis and to gather and critically assess information appropriate to a topic under study; (f) have the ability to effectively communicate both in written and oral form; (g) have an understanding of career and educational options that a bachelor’s degree in Criminology and Criminal Justice provides A. University General Education Program (41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. B. College and Degree (B.A.) Requirements (12-16 hours) The College and Bachelor of Arts requirements are in addition to the University General Education Program requirements. C. The Major (36 hours) Completion of 36 semester hours of criminology and criminal justice including CJUS 1100, either 2226, or 2326 or 2426, 3130, 3540 and 4110, plus 21 additional hours in criminology and criminal justice, of which at least 15 hours must be at the upper-division level. Students will be allowed no more than 6 hours of credit toward the degree in non-classroom courses such as internships and individual directed studies. D. Electives Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120. E. Honors Program Majors who have completed at least 55 hours of coursework (with at least 9 hours in Criminology &amp; Criminal Justice) and have a 3.25 or higher departmental and overall grade point average are invited to apply for admissions to the department's honors program. Students who are admitted must complete 15 hours of honors coursework in the Department, with at least 9 hours being upper-division criminal justice courses. Honor students must maintain a grade point average of at least 3.25. Students who complete the program and the regular college requirement will be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having their degrees conferred “With Honors in Criminology and Criminal Justice.” The student's diploma and the official record at The University of Memphis will also reflect this accomplishment. Criminology and Criminal Justice Minor Completion of 18 hours in criminal justice courses including CJUS 1100, either 2226 or 2326 or 2426 and 3130 and 3540, and 6additional upper-division hours in Criminology and Criminal Justice courses. Typical 4-Year Criminology and Criminal Justice Sequence Freshman Year CJUS 1100 3 Nat. Sci./Math/B.A. 3-4 ENGL 1010 3 ENGL 1020 3 MATH* 3-4 CJUS 2226, 2326, or 2426 3 Foreign Language/B.A. 3 Foreign Language/B.A. 3 Elective 3 Social/Behavioral Science* 3 Semester Totals 15-16 hrs 15-16 hrs Sophomore Year ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 Social/Behavioral Science* 3 CJUS LD elective 3 Elective 3 Humanities* 3 Natural Science* 4 Natural Science* 4 Fine Arts* 3 History* 3 CJUS 3130 3 Semester Totals 16 hrs Semester Totals 16 hrs Junior Year History* 3 UD Humanities/B.A. 3 Elective 3 CJUS UD elective 3 CJUS 3540 3 UD elective outside major 3 CJUS UD elective 3 Elective 3 COMM 2381 3 CJUS UD elective 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 15 hrs Senior Year CJUS UD elective 3 CJUS UD elective 3 CJUS elective 3 UD elective 3 UD elective outside major 3 CJUS 4110 3 UD elective outside major 3 Elective outside major 4 UD elective outside major 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 13 hrs Total Hours: 120 Total Hours Required for Graduation: 120 *Must satisfy University General Education Program Requirement College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .