#http://www.memphis.edu/jdst/scholarships.php
Scholarships - JDST - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Bornblum Judaic Studies Major &amp; Minor Course Descriptions Faculty Internships Scholarships Home JDST Scholarships Scholarship Information Bornblum Judaic Studies offers qualified students the opportunity to apply for a variety of scholarships and awards. A minimum grade point average of 3.00 and at least six credits or the equivalent in Judaic Studies courses are required for students to apply for any scholarship or award. Decisions on which scholarship or award will go to which students are made by the Director of Bornblum Judaic Studies, in consultation other BJS faculty and members of the BJS Faculty Advisory Committee. Information and application materials are available in the BJS office in 301 Mitchell Hall, phone 678-2919. The Judaic Studies Teacher Training Scholarship The Judaic Studies Teacher Training Scholarship is up to $1,500 per year for up to six semesters of study. Graduate students seeking teacher licensure for the purpose of going into Jewish education may also be eligible for scholarship support. In order to receive and retain the scholarship, students must meet following requirements: Undergraduate students must either (a) seek a bachelor's degree in Judaic Studies and teacher licensure, or (b) seek a bachelor's degree in education, establish proficiency in Hebrew language, and earn at least a minor in Judaic Studies. Graduate students must seek teacher licensure and make up deficiencies in Judaic studies from their undergraduate work, including Hebrew language proficiency. All students must complete a program for teacher licensure. Upon completion of their studies, all students must make every reasonable effort to obtain employment in the field of Jewish education. Once they have secured a position in Jewish education, they must make every reasonable effort to work in the field of Jewish education for a minimum of three years. The Judaic Studies Teacher Training Scholarship is good for no more than six semesters of study, including two semesters of study at an Israeli university. If students require additional semesters to comply with the terms of the scholarship, then they must find other means of meeting those expenses. Jewish Community Service Training Award The Jewish Community Service Training Award pays qualified students $500 per semester for up to six semesters of study. In order to receive and retain the scholarship, students must either (a) seek a bachelor's degree in Judaic Studies and a minor in Nonprofit Management with certification by American Humanics, or (b) seek a bachelor's degree in Social Work and a minor in Judaic Studies. Students must also complete an internship in a Jewish community service agency. Outstanding Student in Judaic Studies Award Each year instructors teaching courses in Judaic Studies and/or in Hebrew language nominate an outstanding student for the Outstanding Student in Judaic Studies Award. Students have to have a concentration in Judaic Studies to be eligible for this award and must be nominated by one of their instructors. Students who have already received the award are not eligible. One award of $500 may be given each year; if no student is eligible or qualified for the award, it may not be given. Award for Juniors and Seniors with a Concentration in Judaic Studies Qualified juniors and seniors who have a concentration in Judaic Studies may apply for an award of $500 per year. Juniors may receive $500 per year for up to two years; seniors may receive the scholarship of $500 only once. Funds for Study in Israel Qualified students who with a concentration or seeking a minor in Judaic Studies may apply for funds to apply toward airfare from Memphis to Israel in order to study at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Tel Aviv University, Haifa University, Bar-Ilan University, or Ben Gurion University. The amount provided is $1,500 or the cost of airfare, whichever is less, on a reimbursable basis. In order to receive the reimbursement, students must provide receipts for their airfare and evidence that they have completed a summer, semester, or year of study at one of the aforementioned institutions. Note: Undergraduate students receiving any scholarship, award, or airfare reimbursement must maintain an overall grade point average or 3.20 during their studies at The University of Memphis. Graduate students in the Teacher Training Scholarship Program must maintain a grade point average of 3.30. Scholarship students are reviewed once a year to determine their continuing eligibility. All Bornblum Judaic Studies scholarships, awards, and reimbursements apply to study only at The University of Memphis and/or an Israeli university. No funds may not be used for study at any other institution. News &amp; Events Bornblum Judaic Studies promotes several events during spring and fall semesters. Read about what's happening in the department. Interdisciplinary Studies Serving as the home for academic programs which transcend the boundaries of the traditional academic departments. Contact Us Main office and location information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .