#http://www.memphis.edu/law/current-students/student-organizations.php
Student Organizations - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Current Students Registrar Course &amp; Class Information Course Catalog Curriculum Registration Calendars Degree Programs Part-Time Program Certificate Programs Records Request Graduation Requirements Academic Regulations Student Advising Bar Exam Information Academic Regulations Student Organizations Student Affairs Student Affairs Overview Academic Success Program Bar Exam Information Bookstore Commencement Counseling Services Information Technology Law School ID Cards Locker Rentals Orientation Parking TN Lawyers Assistance Prog. Student Advising Study Abroad Financial Information Pro Bono Honor Council GA Timesheet Form Home School of Law Current Students Student Organizations STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS Memphis Law has a number of active student organizations. Each organization is listed below with contact information. Throughout a student's law school career many find it extremely beneficial to be a part of one or a few student organizations. American Constitution Society President: Mark Fyke The Memphis chapter of the American Constitution Society aims to promote the vitality of the United States Constitution and the fundamental values it expresses: individual rights and liberties, genuine equality, access to justice, democracy, and the rule of law. We want to strengthen the intellectual underpinnings of—and the public case for—a vision of the law wherein these values are paramount. We are revitalizing and transforming legal and policy debates through a dynamic network of practitioners committed to justice and progress. Our goal is a rekindling of the hope that by reason and dialogue, we can create an America that is better for us all. Association for Women Attorneys Vice President: Meagan Jones The Association for Women Attorneys student chapter is an organization dedicated to promoting the interests, education, and advancements of women attorneys. Along with the AWA professional chapter, the AWA student chapter regularly coordinates scholarship opportunities, speaking engagements, and meetings for members. Please contact the Memphis Chapter of the AWA or memphisawa@yahoo.com for further information. Black Law Students Association President: Regina Thompson Founded in 1966, the Black Law Students Association seeks to promote the professional needs of African-American law students through promoting professional competence and increasing awareness of the needs of the African American community. For further information, please contact The National BLSA. Christian Legal Society President: Erica Coleman The Christian Legal Society is a non-denominational national organization dedicated to serving Jesus Christ and committed to offering law from a balanced, Christian perspective. Society activities include monthly meetings, guest speakers, and annual barbeques that provide further opportunities for Christian fellowship. For further information, please contact T he Christian Legal Society. Federal Bar Association President: The Federal Bar Association is a national organization consisting of more than 16,000 attorneys and 1,200 federal judges. The student organization works closely with the Memphis Mid-South Chapter to foster a strong relationship between student members and local federal judges and attorneys. We host several speakers on campus and provide a number of networking opportunities with attorneys who practice in the federal system. Federalist Society for Law and Public Policy Studies President: Hunter Yoches The Federalist Society is a group composed of conservatives and libertarians interested in promoting awareness of Federalist policies, including separation of powers, state-centered power, and judiciary say-so in law. Please see The Federalist Society for further information. Health Law Society President: Caroline Gordon The Health Law Society ("HLS") is dedicated to exploring the intersection between medical health care and the judicial system. The HLS examines not only the traditional areas of health law, but also delves deeper into local and national health policy concerns. The HLS strives to enhance the experience and knowledge of its members and the entire Memphis law community. Hispanic Law Student Association President: Stephanie Tasch Honor Council Chief Justice: MK Smith The legal profession is a self-regulated profession; meaning judges and lawyers determine their own professional standards and enforce them. That tradition of self-regulation starts in the law school with the Honor Code and Honor Council. The Honor Code is a code of professional and academic standards. The Honor Council enforces the Honor Code. The Honor Council is composed of eleven law students elected by the student body. The Honor Council investigates and prosecutes alleged violations of the Honor Code. All first-year law students will take an oath at law school orientation to honor the values reflected in the Code. More detailed information about the Honor Code can be found in the Academic Regulations and on the Honor Council homepage here. International Law Students Association President: Angellika Campbell The International Law Students Association is committed to educating students and lawyers, from all over, in the principles and purposes of international law, international organizations and institutions, and comparative legal systems. We hope to achieve this by encouraging communication among students and lawyers from different parts of the world, promoting international understanding and cooperation, and by advancing the legal education of members in general. We also strive to provide opportunities for law students and lawyers to learn about other cultures and legal systems in a system of critical dialogue and international cooperation. The University of Memphis Law Review Editor-in-Chief: Greg Wagner The Law Review is a student publication committed to producing a scholarly, legal journal. All of the articles published in the journal are selected by students and edited by students. The notes and comments selected for publication are also written and edited by students. The goal is to provide a publication that will benefit practitioners, judges, professors, students, and others that use this journal in their practice, on the bench, in the classroom, or in their legal research. Law Students for Reproductive Justice (LSRJ) President: Shelby Patrick LSRJ is a non-partisan, non-profit, national network of law students and lawyers. This organization believes that reproductive justice will exist when all people can exercise the rights and access the resources they need to thrive and to decide whether, when, and how to have and parent children with dignity, free from discrimination, coercion, or violence. LSRJ works to educate law students and members of the general public about reproductive justice issues. This organization invites guest speakers, hosts panel discussions and coordinates with other RSOs and organizations in the community. Please see lsrj.org for further information. Mental Health Law &amp; Policy Journal Editor-in-Chief: Rod Watson The objective of the Journal is to provide a unique scholarly publication dedicated to mental health law and policy that will foster dialogue and debate on a wide range of critical issues that have often gone under-addressed in the law. Moot Court Board Chief Justice: Barrett Frederick The Moot Court Board is dedicated to recognizing, coordinating and fostering excellence in both the appellate and trial advocacy. Duties of the Board include advertising, organizing, and coordinating all intraschool competitions. National Lawyer's Guild President: Brian Burns The National Lawyers Guild Student Chapter at Memphis Law aspires to facilitate the discussion of many current issues while ensuring that multiple perspectives of a given issue are heard. The NLG is dedicated to the need for basic change in the structure of our political and economic system. We seek to unite the lawyers, law students, legal workers and jailhouse lawyers to function as an effective force in the service of the people, to the end that human rights shall be regarded as more sacred than property interests. Our aim is to bring together all those who recognize the importance of safeguarding and extending the rights of workers, women, LGBTQ people, farmers, people with disabilities and people of color, upon whom the welfare of the entire nation depends; who seek actively to eliminate racism; who work to maintain and protect our civil rights and liberties in the face of persistent attacks upon them; and who look upon the law as an instrument for the protection of the people, rather than for their repression. Outlaw President: Lucas Cameron-Vaughn OUTLAW is a law student organization geared specifically towards gay, bisexual, lesbian, and trans-gendered legal issues. The Gay-Straight Alliance promotes equality and civil rights while maintaining visibility in the Memphis legal community as a resource for the gay population. For more information, please contact the Human Rights Campaign website or the Memphis Gay and Lesbian Community Center. Phi Alpha Delta Law Fraternity Chapter Justice: Ben Arnold With over 300,000 members, Phi Alpha Delta is the nation's largest co-ed professional law fraternity. It exists to promote the welfare of each member as well as the community by fostering lasting relationships between teachers and students of law, promoting the ideals of liberty and equal justice under the law, stimulating excellence in scholarship, inspiring virtues of compassion and courage, and fostering integrity and professional competence. For further information, please visit Phi Alpha Delta Law Fraternity's national website. Public Action Law Society President: Tucker Marshburn The Public Action Law Society (PALS) at the University of Memphis is a student-led organization that seeks to promote volunteerism, community service, and a pattern of activities that will instill in participants a desire to continue in pro bono work after becoming attorneys. PALS coordinates volunteers for a number of different organizations. Volunteers are connected to community service organizations that match the students' interests and abilities. Student Bar Association President: Preston Battle The Student Bar Association (SBA) is dedicated to connecting all University of Memphis School of Law students into one body to foster fellowship and cooperation as well as advance the aims and purposes of the School of Law. Duties of the association include creating forums to resolve student issues, plan students activities, and partner with other university departments for the advancement of common interests. All students enrolled in the School of Law are automatically members of the SBA. Additional Information: In addition to law school student organizations, law students are welcome to be a part of the University of Memphis Graduate Student Organization. All law school student organizations must register through Student Leadership and Involvement to become a Registered Student Organization. Current Students Registrar Course &amp; Class Information Course Catalog Curriculum Registration Calendars Degree Programs Part-Time Program Certificate Programs Records Request Graduation Requirements Academic Regulations Student Advising Bar Exam Information Academic Regulations Student Organizations Student Affairs Student Affairs Overview Academic Success Program Bar Exam Information Bookstore Commencement Counseling Services Information Technology Law School ID Cards Locker Rentals Orientation Parking TN Lawyers Assistance Prog. Student Advising Study Abroad Financial Information Pro Bono Honor Council GA Timesheet Form Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/30/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .