#http://www.memphis.edu/rsp/vice_president/sip.php
Sponsored Internship Program - RSP - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Division of Research and Sponsored Programs Vice President Compliance Sponsored Programs Research Development Vice President for Research Research Development Research Foundation Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Integrated Microscopy Center High Performance Computing Internal Programs Home RSP Vice President for Research Sponsored Internship Program Sponsored Internship Program View Tutorial - PDF Memorandum of Understanding Internship Coordinator Quiz Overview In order for a student to work as an intern for a third party (sponsor) at an off campus site and be paid through the University, a Master Internship Affiliation Agreement (MIAA) signed by the sponsor and by an authorized University official must be on file in the Sponsored Programs Administration office. This master agreement contains the legally required basic terms and conditions for this arrangement and will be negotiated by Sponsored Programs Administration (SPA). Please contact Angela Fair at 678-0880 to determine if an MIAA for a particular sponsor already exists or to request a MIAA for a new sponsor. Once the MIAA is in place, the specific details of individual internship assignments can be negotiated with the sponsor by any University department/unit. Details such as dates of the assignment, fee amount to be paid by the sponsor, description of duties to be performed by the student intern, etc. should be described in a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) and signed by the appropriate college dean. The signed MOU must be kept on file in the department so that the University will be able to substantiate billings and/or compliance if required. The purpose of the internship is to allow students to enhance their academic program through participation in related work experience. Therefore, all interns must be enrolled in at least one hour of internship credit during the internship period. The work experience should be integrated into the student's course of study through communications among the student, the University and the sponsor at the beginning, end and during course of the internship. The selection of the appropriate category will depend on the individual situation and in light of the following guidelines. In order to be appointed as a graduate assistant, the internship period should encompass one or more academic semesters; appointment as a student assistant can cover any time period. Graduate assistants are normally limited to 20 hours/week; student assistants may work up to 40 hours per week. Students on F1 visas should be appointed on graduate assistantships unless it is to be considered Practical Training. Non-resident graduate assistants will be considered in-state for fee-paying purposes; this will not be available on a student assistant appointment. Full tuition and fees will be paid by the sponsor for graduate assistants or student assistants. Under certain circumstances, a request may be made to the Vice President for Research/Dean of the Graduate School for the central pool rather than the sponsor to pay tuition/fees for graduate assistants; this will not be available on a student assistant appointment. Graduate assistants will be required to take 12 credit hours per semester if tuition/fees are paid by central pool. Appointment as a graduate assistant will be subject to all existing guidelines listed in the graduate assistant information packet available from the Graduate School, 315 Admin - 678.4212. The internship fee is a fixed fee that the sponsor agrees to pay the University in exchange for a student's performing certain duties over a specific time period as outlined in the memorandum of understanding. This fee may be expended on wages (and fringe benefits if applicable), tuition and fees, and department activities to further the internship program or otherwise benefit the students. Departments are encouraged to negotiate with the sponsor based on an overall internship fee, rather than hourly wage or other types of itemized charges. Back to Top Vice President for Research Research Development Research Foundation Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Integrated Microscopy Center High Performance Computing Internal Programs Forms Forms and other useful information Staff Staff of Research and Sponsored Programs and Grants Accounting Resources Institutional information and resources for the researcher Research Portal Research Portal Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .