#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/engr/
Herff College of Engineering - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Herff College of Engineering RICHARD J. SWEIGARD, PhD,P.E. Dean WARREN O. HAGGARD, PhD Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies Engineering Administration Building E-mail: whaggrd1@memphis.edu GRADUATE ACADEMIC PROGRAMS Department Major Concentration Degree or Certificate Offered Biomedical Engineering* Biomedical Engineering* Master of Science (MS) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Civil Engineering Civil Engineering (1) Environmental Engineering (2) Geotechnical Engineering (3) Structural Engineering (4) Transportation Engineering (5) Water Resources Engineering (6) Engineering Seismology Master of Science (MS) Electrical and Computer Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering (1) Electrical Engineering (2) Computer Engineering Master of Science (MS) Graduate Certificate in Imaging and Signal Processing Engineering Technology Engineering Technology Master of Science (MS) Graduate Certificate in Applied Lean Leadership Mechanical Engineering Mechanical Engineering Master of Science (MS) Graduate Certificate in Packaging Engineering Interdepartmental Engineering (1) Civil Engineering (2) Computer Engineering (3) Electrical Engineering (4) Mechanical Engineering (5) Engineering Physics Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) *NOTE: The Master of Science and the Doctor of Philosophy degree in Biomedical Engineering are offered through a joint academic program with The Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Biomedical Engineering at The University of Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis. Individual program requirements described in The University of Memphis Graduate Catalog, 2015-2016, are subject to change. Please consult your department or the Office of the Graduate School for changes that may occur before publication of the next issue of this Catalog. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) and the program requirements of the degree being pursued (see departmental listings in this section). The Herff College of Engineering offers graduate programs at the masters and doctoral levels through its departments of Biomedical, Civil, Electrical and Computer, and Mechanical Engineering. A Graduate Certificate in Imaging and Signal Processing is available through the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. A Graduate Certificate in Packaging Engineering is available through the Department of Mechanical Engineering. In addition, the Department of Engineering Technology offers a masters program in engineering technology and a Graduate Certificate in Applied Lean Leadership. Students enrolled in the college at the masters level work toward the Master of Science (MS) degree. The doctoral program of the college leads to the degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) after successful completion of study and research in one of the following five concentrations: biomedical engineering, civil engineering, electrical and computer engineering, mechanical engineering and engineering physics. Candidates for all degrees must follow a curriculum plan that has been approved at the departmental level and by the Director of Graduate Studies of the College. PPI STATEMENT All college transcripts and test score information should also be sent directly to Graduate Admissions. Beginning with summer and fall 2013 admittance , the Master of Science and PhD programs in the Herff College of Engineering require the ETS® Personal Potential Index (PPI) Evaluation Report containing a minimum of three (3) evaluations from separate evaluators in order to consider your application complete. The PPI is a third-party evaluative tool administered by the ETS (Educational Testing Service) organization. There is no fee to submit the PPI report to the University of Memphis. The PPI process requires two critical steps by you, the applicant. The applicant needs to create an account with evaluator contact information, and you MUST log back into the PPI system after completion of PPI reports to designate the University of Memphis Graduate School Admissions to receive the reports from your evaluators. You can create an ETS PPI account and review the ETS PPI Information Bulletin, which explains the service, at . PPI - Steps At A Glance Create an ETS PPI account to begin the process. Provide contact information for the evaluators you would like to complete an ETS PPI evaluation. ETS sends an email to each evaluator inviting them to access the ETS PPI system and complete your evaluation. Each evaluator logs in to the ETS PPI system to rate you on six personal attributes and provide an overall evaluation. Evaluators also may provide optional comments for each attribute as well as for the overall rating. You are notified via e-mail each time that one of your evaluators completes their PPI. **THE MOST IMPORTANT STEP** After all of your evaluators have completed their PPI reports, you must log back into your PPI account, designate the University of Memphis Office of Graduate Admissions to receive an ETS PPI Evaluation Report and select the evaluations that are to be included in the report. The office cannot access your PPI recommendations until you complete this step. Once you designate the University of Memphis to receive an ETS PPI Evaluation Report, ETS creates an evaluation report and sends it electronically to the University of Memphis, Office of Graduate Admissions. Allow up to 5 days for the report to be processed and sent to the University of Memphis. View a sample PPI Report. The evaluators/faculty members who you choose should be individuals that you believe are best able to objectively comment on your intellectual and professional achievements and potential. We may call or write your recommenders for more information. MASTER OF SCIENCE DEGREE PROGRAMS The masters degree programs provide opportunity for advanced study in various areas of engineering of current importance. Flexibility is provided in that students have the option of a thesis or non-thesis program. Program objectives are the ability to: (1) apply advanced knowledge of mathematics, physical sciences, and engineering principles to the solution of practical engineering problems; (2) meet or exceed the needs and expectations of public and private sector employers for MS graduates; and (3) pursue additional advanced studies if so desired. Admission Requirements Applicants will be considered for admission to the masters program based upon a common set of criteria. These are the applicant’s attainment of an appropriate bachelors degree, the score earned on the Graduate Record Examination (GRE), and the undergraduate grade point average (GPA). The GPA used is either the cumulative or the last 60 semester hours of applicable courses earned toward a degree. In addition to meeting the University minimum admission requirements, applicants must meet the following criteria established by this College. The applicant must have: appropriate bachelors degree as determined by the admitting department. an undergraduate GPA that is competitive for the students' bachelors program. an acceptable score on the verbal, quantitative, and analytic portions of the GRE as established by their department or program of study. three PPI evaluation reports submitted to the Graduate Admissions Office. In addition to meeting the college minimum admission requirements, applicants must meet admission criteria established by their department of study. An applicant who lacks an appropriate bachelors degree may be required to complete undergraduate deficiency courses. If the number of deficiency courses is large, the applicant may be required to complete an undergraduate degree in engineering before seeking admission to the graduate program. In addition to the above requirements, applicants whose native language is other than English must have a competative score on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or The International English Language Testing System (IELTS). Applicants are further advised that the admission requirements for the College are minimum requirements. Meeting minimum requirements does not guarantee admission into a specific departmental masters program. Retention Requirements Refer to the individual program descriptions of each department. Graduation Requirements Refer to the individual program descriptions of each department. DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY DEGREE PROGRAM The Herff College of Engineering offers a program leading to the degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) with a major in Engineering and concentrations in civil, computer, electrical, mechanical engineering and engineering physics. In addition the College offers a course of study leading to a degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) with a major in Biomedical Engineering through a joint academic program with the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Biomedical Engineering at The University of Tennessee Health Science Center. Program objectives are the ability to: (1) apply advanced knowledge of mathematics, physical sciences, and engineering principles to the solution of practical engineering problems; (2) meet or exceed the needs and expectations of public and private sector employers for PhD graduates; and (3) pursue additional advanced studies if so desired. Admission Requirements Applicants will be considered for admission to the doctoral program based upon a common set of criteria. These are the applicant's educational background, Graduate Record Examination (GRE) score, grade point average (GPA), and three PPI evaluation reports. The GPA used is either the cumulative or the last 60 semester hours of applicable courses earned toward a degree. Admission criteria also depend upon whether the applicant received a degree from an institution that is accredited at the undergraduate level by the Accrediting Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), . In most cases, applicants will be considered for admission after completion of a masters degree. However, in certain cases, applicants will be considered for admission to the doctoral program after the attainment of a bachelors degree. It may be suggested that the student complete a masters degree while in pursuit of the doctoral degree. The following criteria will be applied according to the applicant's educational background as categorized below: A. Masters Degree Masters Degree from a School with an ABET Accredited Undergraduate Program: Applicants who have a masters degree from an engineering program accredited at the undergraduate level by ABET will be considered for admission provided they have an acceptable score on the verbal and quantitative portions of the GRE as established by their department or program of study. Masters Degree from a School with a non-ABET Accredited Undergraduate Program or Bachelors Degree field other than Engineering: Applicants in this category will be considered for admission provided that the GRE scores and undergraduate GPA are acceptable as determined by the Department of concentration and the University of Memphis. B. Bachelors Degree Bachelors Degree from an ABET Accredited Program: An applicant who has a bachelors degree from an engineering program accredited at the undergraduate level by ABET will be considered for admission provided he or she has an acceptable score on the verbal and quantitative portions of the GRE as established by their department or program of study. Bachelors Degree from a non-ABET Accredited program or Masters Degree fields other than Engineering: Applicants in this category will be considered for admission provided they have a competative GPA and acceptable GRE scores as established by their department or program of study. In addition to the above requirements, all applicants must submit an application for admission to The University of Memphis along with three evaluations through the PPI system from previous instructors attesting to the applicant's academic ability and potential for success in a doctoral program. (See PPI statement above for more information) Applicants whose native language is other than English must have a competitive score on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or The International English Language Testing System (IELTS). The above represent the minimum acceptable admission requirements. In addition to meeting the College minimum admission requirements, applicants must meet admission criteria established by their department or program of study. Depending on the applicant's educational background, the Advisory Committee for the individual graduate student may require additional coursework to prepare the student for doctoral studies. The Advisory Committee is composed of Graduate Faculty from the College. The Department Chair, the Director of Graduate Studies for the College and the Graduate School will review and approve the Committee. In unusual circumstances where the above admission requirements cannot be met, an applicant may seek exceptions by contacting the Director of Graduate Studies for the college. Applicants are further advised that the College reserves the right to deny some applications for admissions because of limited faculty availability and physical facilities to accommodate student research interests. Retention Requirements A student will be retained continuously in the program until completion of the degree providing the following conditions are met: All students will be required to maintain a grade point average (GPA) of at least 3.00. Should the student’s GPA fall below that mark, a period of one semester or one full summer term will be allowed to correct the deficiency. Failure to regain the minimum 3.00 is considered sufficient reason for being dropped from the program. This period may, at the discretion of the student’s advisory committee, be extended one additional semester or full summer term. If the GPA at the end of this extension is still below 3.00, the student will be dismissed from the program. Accumulation of more than 7 semester hours of cumulative graduate coursework with a grade of "C+" or lower will result in dismissal from the program, i.e., a student who accumulates 6 hours of graduate coursework with a grade of "C+" or lower in a masters program is permitted only one additional hour with a grade of "C+" or lower. All students are required to complete a comprehensive examination with at least a minimum passing score on the written portion and a satisfactory performance on the oral portion of the exam. A second and final attempt to pass this examination may be granted by the student’s Advisory Committee; failure will result in mandatory dismissal from the program. All students must demonstrate reportable activity and progress on their research project to their advisory committee each fall and spring semester after dissertation hours are started.This reportable activity should also be submitted in writing to the Department Chair. Grade point averages above are based on a 4.00 grading system where A = 4.00. Students presenting transcripts using a different system will be held to similar standards. Graduation Requirements General Requirements: Each student must earn at least 72 semester hours beyond the bachelors degree or 42 beyond the masters degree (see Table 1A). Credit for the dissertation will be a minimal of 24 semester hours for PhD student admitted with a bachelors degree and a minimum of 18 semester hours for PhD students admitted with a Master's degree. Early in each student's program of study, the Director of Graduate Studies upon recommendation of the Departmental Chair will approve the Advisory Committee composed of Graduate Faculty in the College. At least 48 of the 72 semester hours required, including dissertation and research credit, must be in engineering and at least 24 in biomedical, civil, computer, electrical, or mechanical engineering and physics. No more than 12 semester hours credit of 6000 level courses will count toward the 72-hour PhD degree. (See Table 1B) Table 1A) Doctoral Program Options Option Total Course Hours Course Hours (excluding Dissertation) Hours of Dissertation (9000 course) Post Bachelor's Degree (BS) 72 48 24 Post Master's Degree (MS) 42 24 18 Table 1B) Doctoral Program Course Hours Option Course Hours (excluding dissertation) Hours of dissertation (9000 courses) Hours at 6000 (maximum) Minimum hours at 7000/8000 Minimum hours 7000/8000 in concentration Post Bachelor's Degree (BS) 48 24 12 36 24 Post Master's Degree (MS) 24 18 6 15 9 Residency Requirements: A minimum of 18 semester hours must be earned while the student is in continuous residence. This may be done in two regular consecutive semesters. If the student is retained as a graduate assistant, the residency requirement may be met over a single continuous twelve-month period provided the student completes 18 semester hours in two successive regular semesters. A student is not eligible to complete the residency requirement until a minimum of 18 semester hours of graduate study have been successfully completed. Mathematics Requirements: Based on the qualifying examination required of all The University of Memphis doctoral students, the advisory committee may stipulate that appropriate mathematics courses be made a part of the student's program. Examination Requirements: All students must take a qualifying examination in accordance with University policy outlined under Minimum Requirements for Doctoral Degrees in this catalog. This examination, which is intended to determine the student's mastery of broad fundamental concepts, will be typically given only after the student has completed between 9 to 27 semester hours of graduate study. For students entering the program with a masters degree, the exam will occur early in their PhD program as directed by the student's Advisor and Advisory Committee. The results will be used to prescribe the remainder of the student's academic program, and successful completion of the qualifying exam is required for admission to candidacy as a doctoral student. The examination will generally be given in written form. However, the student’s committee may require an oral session before making a final decision on the student’s qualification to continue his/her studies. After the final semester of coursework, the student will be required to successfully complete written and oral comprehensive examinations that will ascertain the student’s mastery of the theoretical material that will underlie the dissertation topic.The student's Advisory Committee will conduct this oral comprehensive exam. At the completion of the dissertation, the student must defend the work before the advisory committee and other interested members of the university faculty who may care to question the results of the research. NOTE: Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. Course Requirements: Nine semester hours of major mathematics, physical science and engineering principles core courses that integrate their doctoral experience are required of all doctoral students. This core is developed by the student's graduate Advisory Committee. Each concentration requires a minimum of 48 semester hours of coursework post Bacherlor's Degree (and 24 post Masters Degree) and research including the dissertation hours in the chosen field of study. Each student's program of study will be developed with the student's Advisory Committee. For Engineering Physics concentration, 15 hours in Engineering courses for post-BS and 9 hours in Engineering courses for post-MS candidates are required. Similarly, 24 hours in Physics for post-BS and 9 hours in Physics for post-MS are required. The graduate committee which will be a composition of College of Engineering faculty and Physics Department faculty and this committee will determine the specific Physics and Engineering courses for this proposed concentration to effectively assist the graduate student's academic and research experiences. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .