#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/graduate_faculty/ccfa/jour.php
Journalism - Graduate School - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate School Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Programs Events Resources Faculty and Staff Curricular Procedures Curricular Revision Forms TBR Academic Program Proposal Policies TBR Academic Program Proposal Guidelines TBR Academic Program Proposal Forms Graduate School Calendar Graduate School Forms Graduate School Contact Information Home Graduate School Faculty/Staff Journalism Department of Journalism The University bestows the designation "Graduate Faculty" upon faculty following review of their credentials and recommendation by their colleagues. The University maintains six levels of graduate faculty: (1) Full, (2) Associate, (3) Adjunct, (4) Adjunct Research Co-Mentor, (5) Affiliate, and (6) Adjunct Teaching. Only Full graduate faculty members may chair doctoral committees. Adjunct Research Co-Mentor members may serve as co-chair of a master's or doctoral committee. Full or Associate graduate faculty may chair master's committees. Only one adjunct or affiliate graduate faculty member may serve as a voting member on any master's or doctoral committee. Teaching adjunct members may not serve on graduate committees. Full MEMBERS M. DAVID ARANT, Professor, PhD (1994), The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill [2017] MATTHEW J. HAUGHT, Assistant Professor, PhD (2014), University of South Carolina [2020] JOSEPH HAYDEN, Professor, PhD (2002), Indiana University [2015] THOMAS HRACH, Associate Professor, PhD (2008), Ohio University [2020] MELISSA JANOSKE, Assistant Professor, PhD (2014), University of Maryland [2020] DAN L. LATTIMORE, Professor, PhD (1971), The University of Wisconsin-Madison [2016] SANDRA H. UTT, Associate Professor, PhD (1983), Ohio University [2016] ERIN WILLIS, Assistant Professor, PhD (2011), The University of Missouri [2021] JIN YANG, Associate Professor, PhD (2004), Southern Illinois University at Carbondale [2016] ASSOCIATE MEMBERS RONALD SPIELBERGER, Associate Professor, MA (1965), The Ohio State University [2020] ADJUNCT MEMBERS CARRIE BROWN, PhD (2008), The University of Missouri [2017] KRISTEN LANDREVILLE, Assistant Professor, PhD (2010), The Ohio State University [2016] CLAIRE TODD, PhD (2013), South Carolina College of Pharmacy [2018] DAN TRIGOBOFF, JD (1985), San Diego State University [2017] ADJUNCT TEACHING MEMBERS DAPHNEY PERNOLA BARR, MA (2006), University of Westminster [2017] FRANK BOUTSEN, PhD (1991), Southern Illinois University [2017] WILLIAM DOTSON, MA (2004), California State University, East Bay [2017] VICKYE HESTER, MA (2008), The University of Memphis [2014] ANDREW SMITH, MA (2010), The University of Memphis [2015] GRANT SMITH, MA (2008), University of Missouri [2016] JASON R. TERRLL, BA (1991), The University of Memphis [2017] DAVID A. WATERS, BA (1981), The University of Memphis [2015] AFFILIATE MEMBERS DARRIN M DEVAULT, MA (2002), University of Memphis [2017] OTIS L SANFORD, BA (1975), University of Mississippi [2017] ROBERT L. WILLIS, Instructor, MA (1993), Ball State University [2015] NOTE: Expiration date of graduate faculty membership is indicated in brackets. Faculty and Staff Curricular Procedures Curricular Revision Forms TBR Academic Program Proposal Policies TBR Academic Program Proposal Guidelines TBR Academic Program Proposal Forms Graduate School Calendar Graduate School Forms Graduate School Contact Information Get More Information Request information about a specific program of interest. Graduate Catalog Learn more about our programs. Apply Now Submit your application today. Support Graduate Education Your gifts make a difference! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .