#http://www.memphis.edu/internationalmba/students/internships.php
Study Abroad and Internships - IMBA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - International MBA Welcome Admissions Students Media News FCBE Students Welcome Admissions How To Apply Tuition and Fees Students Assistantships Morgan Morton Student Travel Enrichment Fund Scholarships Study Abroad and Internships Learning Outcomes Media News Contact Us Home IMBA Students Study Abroad and Internships Study Abroad and Internships Time spent abroad for study or internship activities constitutes an integral part of the International MBA Program. Through partnership agreements with academic institutions in Europe, Asia, and Latin America, International MBA students gain an international experience by studying abroad or working abroad! U.S. Students must include 3 credit hours International Experience in Semesters three (Summer). International Students will study and intern in Memphis. US International MBA students will intern abroad. Securing an appropriate internship is the student's responsibility (the IMBA office will assist the student) and must be approved by the IMBA Program for academic credit. Depending upon the language track chosen, US students may spend a summer semester overseas studying abroad or doing an internship abroad. Options for US Students: The University of Memphis' International MBA program has partnerships with the following institutions. US students spend a semester at the following sites, or may do an internship at any location approved by the IMBA Program. JAPAN: Osaka University of Economics (Japanese Business Track) FRANCE: Ecole de Management - Strasbourg - Robert Schuman University (French Business Track) GERMANY: Catholic University of Eichstaett (German Business Track) PERU: ESAN Graduate School of Business (Spanish Language Track) INDIA: Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore –or– Alliance School of Business - Bangalore (World Region Language Track) CHINA: Nanjing University (Chinese Business Track) Note About Study Abroad Fees The Study Abroad office charges all students participating in an international experience an application fee of $350. The fee covers administrative costs, membership fees and an International Student Identity Card (ISIC) for each student participating in a study abroad program. This fee is non-refundable and is due at the time you submit your completed application. If the study abroad office is unable to place you at a requested site the application fee will be refunded. Options for International Students: International students usually follow the US Business Track. They generally take classes at the University of Memphis and intern at a company based in Memphis, where they have first-hand experience in US business practices. Partial List of Host Companies Previously Providing IMBA Internships: FedEx - USA Aerospace Products – USA Cargill – USA First TN – USA International Paper - USA AutoZone - USA Medtronic - USA Cummins - USA Nike - USA Audi- Germany Kurimoto - Japan BDO Consulting - Germany Leipa - Germany CEMEX - Mexico Saturn - Germany Council of Europe - France Messe Munchen - Germany Misslbeck GMBH - Germany FedEx - Mexico Glassfiber - Mexico Panasonic - Japan General Motors - France Servmark - Germany Hypo Bank - Germany Steelcase Stafor - France Fujitsu – Japan Eurez – Germany Alsace International – France Students Welcome Admissions How To Apply Tuition and Fees Students Assistantships Morgan Morton Student Travel Enrichment Fund Scholarships Study Abroad and Internships Learning Outcomes Media News Contact Us How To Apply What's your first step? Find out here! Curriculum Learn about our course offerings! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .