#http://www.memphis.edu/supportfcbe/giving_stories/
Support the FCBE - Support the FCBE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Support the FCBE News Dean's Message Giving Stories Giving Options Development FCBE The Stories of Giving The Stories of Giving Giving Options UofM Development UofM Foundation UofM Alumni Association Home Support the FCBE The Stories of Giving Your Support Makes a Difference in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics Donors are the lifeblood of the Fogelman College. With the continuing support of alumni and friends, the college will be able to grow and move forward with initiatives, and pair up with the top business schools in the country. With your support more students will be able to take advantage of these initiatives. We are trying to spotlight a few supporters whose gifts have made a difference for the FCBE and our students. Professor Jesse W. Spiceland Endowed Graduate Scholarship In 2010, family members of Professor Emeritus Jesse W. Spiceland made a generous gift to create the Professor Jesse W. Spiceland Endowed Graduate Scholarship for the School of Accountancy. The endowed fund is awarded to a first year graduate student enrolled at the University of Memphis in the School of Accountancy masters program. The scholarship is in honor of Professor Jesse Spiceland who taught at the University for over 40 years. During his tenure at the UofM he taught every accounting course in the curriculum as well as several courses in other departments in the College. Also, he served as Department Chair and served on virtually every committee in the college and university at one time or another. Professor Jesse Spiceland has passed down his passion for the University of Memphis to his family. Professor David Spiceland, the son of Professor Jesse Spiceland, has taught in the School of Accountancy at the UofM for the past 29 years. Professor David Spiceland's wife, Charlene Spiceland (M.Ed 86' &amp; M.S. 00') also is an Instructor in the School of Accountancy at the UofM. Carol Warren (BBA 75'), a daughter of Professor Jesse Spiceland, is the University Bursar. The Fogelman College and the University of Memphis would like to thank the Spiceland family for their generous gift. The Student Professional Development Endowed Fund The student Professional Development Endowed Fund, established by George T. Johnson (BBA '70) and Betty Johnson (M.Ed '75), supports initiatives created to advance the professional development of the FCBE students. One of those initiatives is Fogelman Promise, a seven-prong initiative that aims to prepare students for life after college and help them thrive in the business world.' Fogelman promise goes beyond the classroom to train students in areas such as business etiquette, professionalism, fitness and ethics. From a firm handshake to a confident tone, students who complete the Promise program will enter the workforce with the skills they need to become valuable employees and responsible citizens.As an alum, your dollars can make a real difference to the success of this initiative and programs like it. Supporting student Professional Development strengthens the community, improves the college's reputation and ultimately increases the value of your degree.If you are interested in making a donation to one of these funds or any other areas of the Fogelman college, please contact Marianne Hartquist, Sr. Director of Development at M.Hartquist@memphis.edu or 901.678.3068. The Stories of Giving The Stories of Giving Giving Options UofM Development UofM Foundation UofM Alumni Association Make a Gift to Fogelman College Today! See how with your continuing support, our college will be able to grow and move forward with exciting new initiatives! Impact Future Generations Learn more about how you can create a legacy that says that you believe in higher education and in our future. Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .