#http://www.memphis.edu/anthropology/graduate/grad-cert-programs.php
Graduate Certificate Programs - Department of Anthropology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Student Life Resources Graduate Resources Current Students Future Students Home Department of Anthropology Graduate Graduate Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies This program is administered jointly by the Department of Anthropology, College of Arts and Sciences and the Department of Art, College of Communication and Fine Arts) The Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies is intended to prepare students who are currently enrolled in or have graduated from Masters or Doctoral degree programs to enter the museum professions. As an interdisciplinary program, individuals from all fields, including art, anthropology, art history, biology, history, business, education, communication, and public administration are encouraged to participate. The program will help prepare students for entry-level positions in museum administration, education, collection management, registration, exhibition development, curation, and public programs. Geographic Information Systems Geographic Information Systems (GIS) manage, analyze, and display geographic knowledge. The GIS Certificate Program is for those with a Bachelor's degree in a relevant field, and with an interest in using GIS as a problem-solving tool. The GIS Certificate gives students an interdisciplinary perspective that allows them to integrate GIS skills into their knowledge acquired in other disciplines; competitive skills and training for jobs in which GIS skills are essential. American Humanics Nonprofit Administration The graduate level concentration in Nonprofit Administration, offered by the Division of Public and Nonprofit Administration, consists of completion of 15 hours of course work, guided electives, and an internship with a local nonprofit organization. Members of the American Humanics Student Association participate in the Fall Retreat, Spring Recognition Reception, fundraisers, and recruitment presentations. The American Humanics Management Institute (AHMI) is an annual national conference that features interactive workshops and seminars on nonprofit issues. Past conferences have been held in Las Vegas, Orlando and San Antonio. Women's Studies Women's and Gender Studies at the University of Memphis is an academic program that focuses on scholarship of women and gender, and how we think about race, class, sexuality and social inequality. Our interdisciplinary program offers an undergraduate minor, a graduate certificate, and a Master of Arts degree.The Master of Arts degree allows students to choose a concentration in Inequality and Social Policy, or Cultural Studies. Within each concentration, faculty work with students to design an individualized academic program to fit student needs and interests. Our graduate degree program also includes thesis and non-thesis options. Public Health Degree Programs The Master of Public Health Program at the University of Memphis integrates academic rigor with real world solutions to promote healthy communities and environments, prevent chronic disease, and protect against disease spread. Located in the metropolitan mid-South, where substantial health disparities exist, our focus addresses urban health concerns and advocacy for the underserved. The program enjoys a close working relationship with the Memphis and Shelby County Health Department, where monthly roundtables bridge the gap between academic study and the practice of public health. We offer a 42-credit hour MPH degree in five concentration areas: Biostatistics, Environmental Health, Epidemiology, Health Systems Management, and Social and Behavioral Science. Students may also opt for a general MPH degree. Our program accommodates the needs of working professionals, with all courses offered in the evening. The MPH practicum requirement is fulfilled at the Health Department, where students work with preceptors on projects related to infant mortality, tobacco control, obesity prevention, promotion of breastfeeding, pollution control, water quality, social determinants of health, HIV/AIDS risk reduction, immigrant and refugee health, tuberculosis control, or emergency preparedness. Students also complete a capstone project, which takes the form of either a thesis or Masters Project option. Graduate Resources Current Students Future Students Undergrads: Declare Anthropology your major! Join the Graduate Program Learn about applied and engaged anthropology! News and Events Find out what's happening in the Department of Anthropology Contact Us Main office location and numbers, undergraduate and graduate advising Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .