#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/graduate/licensure-program-requirements.php
MSW Licensure Program Requirements - Social Work - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Social Work About Undergraduate Graduate People Research Resources Institute Graduate About the MSW Program Brochure Program &amp; Study Plans Prospective MSW Students MSW Information Sessions Request Information Form Program Eligibility How to Apply &amp; Deadlines FAQs Current Students Student Handbook Semester Schedules MSW School Social Work Licensure Program Requirements Phi Alpha Honor Society Graduate Organization of Social Work (GO!SW) Field Field Handbook Field Agencies Forms Field Powerpoint Funding UofM Graduate Catalog Home Social Work Graduate MSW Licensure Program Requirements MSW School Social Work Licensure Program Requirements View a slideshow detailing the UofM School Social Work Licensure Program. Admissions Requirements MSW students seeking school social work licensure must meet all admission requirements of the MSW program. These requirements are: University of Memphis Graduate Application Completion of a bachelor's degree from an accredited university with a 3.0 grade point average Submission of all undergraduate and graduate transcripts. Submission of GRE (Graduate Record Examination) scores. Master of Social Work Application. Professional Goal Statement. Three professional references. Resume. In addition, students seeking school social work licensure must have the following: Apply to the Teacher Education Program (TEP) Complete the TEP application : Have an Undergraduate GPA of 3.0 Take the PRAXIS CORE Test (BA students must take this) Submit verification of background check. Minimum scores: GRE scores of : 3.5 writing; 143 verbal; 138 (350 on old GRE) quantitative or combined verbal &amp; quantitative of 281 will result in the PRAXIS CORE examination being waived (this is applicable to graduate students only). If your GRE scores fall below the set requirements then you can schedule an appointment to take the Praxis CORE examination. If just your GRE writing score was below the requirement (3.5) but your Verbal and Quantitative Scores met the requirement, then simply schedule to retake the CORE writing. If your GRE Verbal and Qualitative Scores were below the requirement: 143 verbal (350 Old GRE); 138 (350 Old GRE) quantitative or combined verbal &amp; quantitative of 281, then you must take the entire CORE examination in order to enter the TEP program. Click this link to find out more about the Praxis CORE requirements: Click this link to schedule to take the Praxis CORE: Curriculum MSW students will meet all requirements for Tennessee School Social Work Licensure through the completion of three courses (SWRK 6937/4937: School Social Work, SWRK 7016 or 7017, and SPED 7517: Functional Analysis/Treatment of Problem Behavior) and field placement (SWRK 7053-54). ****Encourage you to take Intro to ABA as an Elective Also**** The course descriptions are provided below. SWRK 7007: School Social Work The purpose of this course is to develop the knowledge and skills necessary for successful and competent social work in public schools. The course covers the varied roles and functions of school social workers in their practice with diverse groups of students, families, school personnel, and diverse communities. It emphasizes best practices in assessing, intervening, and evaluating social work practice across all system levels. PREREQUISITE: Admission to MSW program. SWRK 7016: Advanced Individual Child/Youth OR 7017: Advanced Family Child Youth SPED 7517: Func Anlys/Treat Prob Behv (3) Examines principles, issues, approaches, and strategies for conducting Functional Behavior Assessment and Functional analysis. PREREQUISITE: SWRK 7011, SPED 7514 (waived if outside of SPED department). SWRK 7051/52 or 7053/54: Field Placement MSW students must complete a minimum of 960 clock hours of field placement. 400 hours are completed in the foundation field placement sequence: SWRK 7051-7052. 560 hours are completed in the concentration field placement sequence: SWRK 7053-7054. MSW students must apply and be accepted into the Teacher Education Program. In addition, they must obtain a background check and at least 1 million/3 million dollars professional liability insurance via a reputable organization or company that provides coverage for social workers prior to placement in the field. Students should also review the student field manual and student handbook for information regarding the requirements for liability insurance coverage. The MSW program requires that students get two different field experiences in their foundation and concentration years. Therefore, students are not allowed to complete both field placements at the same agency. Students seeking school social work licensure will complete their concentration year field placement in a school setting. Table 3 outlines the link between Tennessee School Social Work licensure standards, field placement requirements course, and field placement assessments. Graduate About the MSW Program Brochure Program &amp; Study Plans Prospective MSW Students MSW Information Sessions Request Information Form Program Eligibility How to Apply &amp; Deadlines FAQs Current Students Student Handbook Semester Schedules MSW School Social Work Licensure Program Requirements Phi Alpha Honor Society Graduate Organization of Social Work (GO!SW) Field Field Handbook Field Agencies Forms Field Powerpoint Funding UofM Graduate Catalog Why Study Social Work? The study of social work prepares you for a career in a strong growth area News Stay connected with current and pressing social work information to students, staff, faculty, and field instructors. SUAPP The Department of Social Work is a part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy. Contact Us Main office and location information. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .