#http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/events/familyweekend.php
Parent &amp; Family Weekend - Parent &amp; Family Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parent &amp; Family Services About Events Communication Resources Get Involved Give Back Visit UofM Events Parent &amp; Family Weekend Finals Care Package Parent of the Year Parent Panel Home Parent &amp; Family Services Events Parent &amp; Family Weekend Parent &amp; Family Weekend Join us October 30-November 1, 2015! Whether you are a local or from outside the Mid-South, Parent &amp; Family Weekend is a wonderful time to visit with your student, see their favorite places and get to know the University even more. You will also have the opportunity to meet other parents and families, University staff and have your questions answered. Schedule of Events Frequently Asked Questions Hotel Suggestions Registration has now closed. Please email us at parents@memphis.edu or call us at 901.678.2115 if you would still like to register. You won't want to miss... Tiger Football game vs. Tulane University Tailgate Party on Tiger Lane President's Welcome Reception with University Administrators Brunch Like at Tiger Scavenger Hunt and other on-campus events! Parent &amp; Family Weekend Registration Packages Go Blue Registration Package $45 per person Go Blue Package includes registration and entrance to all Parent &amp; Family Weekend Events, 1 Tailgate ticket, 1 Football Ticket in Parent &amp; Family Weekend section, 1 t-shirt (choice of short or long sleeve), and Parent &amp; Family Weekend materials. The package also includes entrance for your UofM student to Parent &amp; Family Weekend events, tailgate ticket and football ticket in the Parent &amp; Family Weekend section at the Liberty Bowl. A t-shirt for your student is not included. T-shirts can be purchased separately for your student. Go Gray Registration Package $40 per person Go Gray Package includes registration and entrance to all Parent &amp; Family Weekend Events, Parent &amp; Family Weekend T-shirt (choice of short or long sleeve), and Parent &amp; Family Weekend materials. This package does not include a tailgate or football ticket. The package also includes entrance for your UofM student to Parent &amp; Family Weekend events. A tailgate or football ticket is not included for your student. A t-shirt for your student is not included. T-shirts can be purchased separately for your student. Youth 12 &amp; Under Registration Package $15 per person This package is for youth 12 and under who will be attending with a parent, family member or guardian. This includes entrance to all Parent &amp; Family Weekend events, 1 tailgate ticket, and 1 football ticket in the Parent &amp; Family Weekend section at the Liberty Bowl. This package does not include a Parent &amp; Family Weekend t-shirt. T-shirts can be purchased separately. Youth 13 and older will need to register under the Go Blue or Go Gray Package. Youth must attend with a parent, family member or guardian. Parent &amp; Family Weekend T-shirt $15 C ho i ce of sh ort or long sleeve Purchase an extra Parent &amp; Family Weekend t-shirt for your student, child or your friends and family or buy an extra one for yourself so you have a long sleeve and a short sleeve! Purchase is for a Parent &amp; Family Weekend t-shirt only. This does not allow for entrance to any Parent &amp; Family Weekend events or materials. T-shirts will be available for pick up at Parent &amp; Family Weekend registration and will not be mailed. Your student or another representative can pick up for you. Thank you to all of parents and family members who joined us for Parent &amp; Family Weekend 2014! We hope you had a great weekend and enjoyed spending time with your student. For photos from the event, click here . Click here to register today! Sponsored by: Events Parent &amp; Family Weekend Finals Care Package Parent of the Year Parent Panel Contact Us Got questions, comments, or concerns? We're here to help! Parent &amp; Family E-news Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News. Parent &amp; Family Handbook Learn about opportunities and services available to students. In the Now: September FAQs What you need to know this month to help you help your student Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/20/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .