#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbephd/academics/faqs.php
FAQs - FCBEPhD - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Doctoral Programs Welcome Programs Students Faculty &amp; Staff Research News FCBE Academics Curriculum Program Concentrations Ph.D. Degree Learning Outcomes How To Apply Students Information for Students Program Policies Policy For Retention Appeal Hearing Alumni News FAQs Contact Us Home FCBEPhD Academics FAQs FAQs When are the admission deadlines? Does anyone really read the resume, letters of recommendation, and personal statement of interest? Do you accept Admission to the Program in the Spring? What exactly does it mean that your programs and the Fogelman College of Business and Economics are accredited by the AACSB? Can International Students apply for an assistantship? What does an assistantship cover? What is the process? Do you accept part-time students in the Ph.D. program? My TOEFL is more than two-years old. Do I have to re-take it if I have my Master’s degree from a US institution? Is the TSE required? Why is the GMAT score so important? Does the program have distance learning courses? My Master’s degree is not in Business. Can I still apply to the Ph.D. program? My Master’s degree did not require a GMAT. Do I still need a GMAT score to apply to the PhD? Is the GRE acceptable to apply for the PhD program? My master’s degree institution is accredited by another association. Will I still be able to apply to the program with my grad degree or does it have to be from an AACSB accredited business program? Can I apply to the PhD program in the Fall, even though I will not complete my master degree til December of that year? Top of Page When are the admission deadlines? Fall semester College and Assistantship Deadline: March 1st University Deadline: May 1st for Internationals, July 1st for Domestic Does anyone really read the resume, letters of recommendation, and personal statement of interest? Yes! The Program Coordinator, the Associate Dean and the Admissions Committee read the materials that are submitted with every application in order to understand the nature of the students that are applying to the program and to insure that there is a clear fit between the Area program objectives and the applicant's objectives. More importantly, if there is any question about the suitability of the applicant for the program in terms of the quantitative admission criteria (GMAT/ GRE score and GPA) these materials provide important information to the Committee. Do you accept Admission to the Program in the Spring? Typically, no. Under special circumstances, departments will accept for the Spring. You should consult the program coordinator for the concentration of interest. What exactly does it mean that your programs and the Fogelman College of Business and Economics are accredited by the AACSB? The Fogelman College of Business and Economics is one of the premier schools of business in the Mid-South and the only business school in West Tennessee that is fully accredited by the AACSB-International, the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business. AACSB International accreditation represents the highest standard of achievement for business schools worldwide. Institutions that earn accreditation confirm their commitment to quality and continuous improvement through a rigorous and comprehensive peer review. Accreditation reviews are conducted every 10 years, and the accreditation of the Fogelman College was reaffirmed in 2002. The AACSB accreditation is the most widely respected standard, both in the US and in the rest of the world, exclusively for colleges and schools of business. In addition, The University of Memphis accredited by SACS (Southern Association of Colleges and Schools), which applies to the entire university. Top of Page Can International Students apply for an assistantship? Yes. International Students can apply for an assistantship. Assistantships are competitive and require a minimum GMAT of 600 (GRE combined score of 1200). What does an assistantship cover? What is the process? An Assistantship requires a minimum 600 GMAT or 75th percentile. An assistantship offers a tuition waiver for the Fall and Spring semesters and a stipend of $12,000 for the academic year ($1,500 a month for eight months). A student is required to enroll in 9 credit hours of courses each semester and work 20 hours per week each semester as a research and/or teaching assistant. To apply for an assistantship, fill out the Department Financial Assistance Application during the admissions process and submit it to the Ph.D. Programs Office with the Departmental Supporting Materials. Do you accept part-time students in the Ph.D. program? Yes, but it is a departmental decision. You should contact the PhD Concentration Coordinator before applying. My TOEFL is more than two-years old? Do I have to re-take it if I have my Master’s degree from a US institution? No. You can request a waiver of the TOEFL by submitting a written request with your application. Is TSE required? No. TSE is not required, but may be submitted if you are applying for a Teaching Assistantship. Top of Page Why is the GMAT score so important? As do almost all accredited schools of business, we use the Graduate Management Admission Test as a standardized assessment of the qualifications of applicants for advanced study in business and management. It has been validated by studies of applicants and students all over the world as one predictor of academic performance in graduate management programs. The GMAT has been shown to be an excellent predictor of success in graduate school, although it is not a perfect predictor nor should it be used as the only criteria for admission. We must consider the GMAT in addition to the applicant’s academic performance and other application information. The GPA cannot be used alone, however. It is difficult to compare the rigor of academic study across schools and programs, meaning that sometimes a 3.5 GPA might have been easier to attain in some programs and schools than a 2.8 GPA in others, making it hard to accurately judge that the applicant with the 3.5 GPA is more qualified than the 2.8 GPA applicant. In addition, some of our applicants have more education and professional experience. The GMAT can give us a more recent assessment and basis of comparison across all applicants. Does the program have distance learning courses? No. We do not offer distance learning courses in the Ph.D. program. My Master’s degree is not in Business. Can I still apply to the Ph.D. program? Yes. If your background is not in business, you may be required to take some prerequisite courses to prepare you for the Ph.D. program curriculum. Top of Page My Master’s degree did not require a GMAT. Do I still need a GMAT score to apply to the PhD? Yes. Our program requires GMAT or GRE. Is the GRE acceptable to apply for the PhD program? Yes. The GRE is acceptable for all concentrations. My master’s degree institution is accredited by another association. Will I still be able to apply to the program with my grad degree or does it have to be from an AACSB accredited business program? Yes, you can still apply. Can I apply to the PhD program in the Fall, even though I will not complete my master degree til December of that year? Yes, you can. You must complete a Change of Status form. Indicate on the form that you want to apply to the PhD program and indicate the semester and year you will complete your Master’s degree, then submit the form to the Graduate Admissions Office. Top of Page FAQs Academics Curriculum Program Concentrations Ph.D. Degree Learning Outcomes How To Apply Students Information for Students Program Policies Policy For Retention Appeal Hearing Alumni News FAQs Contact Us Program Concentrations Learn about our doctoral offerings! Information for Students Looking for forms or policies? Look no further! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .