#http://www.memphis.edu/cristal/stem_hub/
STEM Hub - CRISTAL - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Center for Research and Innovation in STEM Teaching and Learning (CRISTAL) About Membership STEM Opportunities Active Grants STEM Hub Home CRISTAL STEM Hub All About the West TN STEM Hub... The West Tennessee STEM Hub is a project funded by a Tennessee Race to the Top grant which impacts 36 Local Educational Agency partnerships in 21 counties, including urban, suburban, and rural districts with nearly 17,000 teachers and approximately 240,000 students. The diverse geographic and demographic settings offer the ability to assess the effectiveness of different STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Math) teaching and learning strategies for the West TN region. Principal Investigator: Dr. Stephanie Ivey, ( ssalyers@memphis.edu ). STEM Hub WEBSITE &amp; SOCIAL MEDIA The West TN STEM Hub website: westtnstem.org Facebook: facebook.com/WestTNSTEMHub?fref=ts Twitter: twitter.com/search?q=West+TN+STEM+Hub YouTube: youtube.com/user/WestTNStemHub Tumblr: westtnstem.tumblr.com/ Linkedin: linkedin.com/company/west-tennessee-stem-hub?trk=company_name Give to the Hub: STEM Hub forms STEM GEMS Nomination Form: surveymonkey.com/s/STEMGEMS STEM Spotlight Nomination Form: surveymonkey.com/s/STEMSpotlights Share Your STEM Events: surveymonkey.com/s/HubEvent Vision The West Tennessee STEM Collaboratory unites K-12, institutes of higher education (IHE), and STEM industry partners in an unprecedented approach to transforming STEM education and workforce opportunities throughout the region. The vision will be achieved through the establishment of a West Tennessee STEM Hub and STEM Platform School that will facilitate regional knowledge-sharing, research, and productive partnerships for supporting K-12 students and teachers in STEM. West Tennessee STEM Hub Vision: The West TN STEM Hub will serve as a resource for West Tennessee to increase students' interest in and preparedness for the STEM workforce through a variety of activities. Collaborative partnerships between STEM Hub, Platform School, and STEM community (K-16 faculty, industry, government) professionals will be the cornerstone of this effort. Goals: To support the successful operation of the STEM Platform School (Southwind High School), and facilitate dissemination of best practices across West Tennessee To assemble and facilitate utilization of curricula aligned with state and common core standards that effectively engage West Tennessee K-12 students in STEM learning To create a sustainable culture of sharing and collaboration in the local, regional and state STEM community through the establishment of productive partnerships among K-12 and IHE STEM faculty, business/industry representatives, and community organizations Key Hub Activities: Provide professional development for West Tennessee STEM teachers Create a West Tennessee STEM Master Teacher Corps Develop integrated online STEM curriculum for core courses in grades 9-12 to support rural partners Establish an annual STEM Challenge Summit, engaging K-12 and IHE faculty with STEM professionals to collaboratively identify real-world problems for classroom investigation Connect community/industry partners to K-12 for 21st century workforce development Identify and disseminate STEM resources and best practices Establish an annual Innovations in K-20 STEM Education conference Active regional partnerships will ensure our success and sustainability. Join us as we collaborate to advance West Tennessee students' STEM preparedness, interest, and transition to the STEM workforce! For more information, contact cristal@memphis.edu . (Click to view larger map) Give to CRISTAL Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/17/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .