#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/students/
UofM - FCBE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty &amp; Staff Research News Students Students Future Students Current Students Complete Professional Program Undergraduate Student Services Office FCBE Academic Integrity FCBE Standards for Academic Integrity The Fogelman Student Code of Professionalism Netiquette Guide for Online Courses Understanding Plagiarism FCBE Internships FCBE Scholarships Student Organizations Home FCBE Students Welcome Students We are pleased you have chosen the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics to further your academic career. At the FCBE, we pride ourselves on not only providing you with a top-tier academic education but also on actually preparing you for a career in the real-world. Our College is AACSB accredited, the gold standard of business education and an honor earned by less than 5% of business schools world-wide. Our programs have received numerous awards and recognitions, including being ranked as one of the Princeton Review’s 2015 Top 25 Online MBA Programs in the country. So, rest assured that your degree from the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics will carry significant weight and academic credence. Our faculty is extremely research-oriented, which keeps them on the cusp of ever-changing industries. But more importantly, they are invested in YOU. For instance, all of our online faculty members have undergone intensive training in order to provide the best possible digital classroom experience. If you are looking for a school where you will receive individual attention and constant communication with your teachers, then the FCBE is the right fit for you. We also offer unique, cutting-edge programs and resources that are specifically designed to enhance your experience at Fogelman College. Through the Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center’s Complete Professional Program (CPP) we offer personalized preparation and one-to-one training for potential job placement opportunities. The CPP provides undergraduate students training on ethics, healthy living habits, business etiquette, resume building, professionalism, and much more! Fogelman College is also the home to the state-of-the-art Cook Analytics &amp; Trading Lab . The Cook Lab mimics a Wall Street trading firm and it is equipped with 12 Bloomberg terminals. These real-time data and analytic tools allow business students the opportunity to experience pragmatic hands-on learning in an academic environment. Whether you are a first year student or almost at the completion of your educational journey, we are here to help you be successful in reaching your academic potential and professional goals. Please see the links below for more information regarding your specific needs. Current Students Undergraduate Undergraduate Student Services Office Do you have questions about your academic coursework? Contact the Undergraduate Student Services Office to get advised, request permits, apply for graduation, and more. Majors and Minors Are you looking for more information about available majors and minors? Discover what courses are best for you. Course Syllabi Do you need information about your classes and assignment deadlines? Find your class course syllabus. Business Honors Program Are you a high performing student? Enhance your academic experience by participating in the Business Honors Program. Complete Professional Program Are you looking for a way to gain an edge over the competition? Set yourself apart by joining the Complete Professional Program offered through the Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center. Scholarships Are you looking for ways to alleviate the financial burden of college? Learn about the scholarships offered by Fogelman College. Financial Aid Do you need help paying for school? Apply for financial aid. FCBE Internships Are you looking to gain real world work experience? Contact the Complete Professional Program office to submit your resume and learn about available internship opportunities. Morgan Morton Study Abroad Fund Do you want to travel the world and learn about other cultures? Learn if you are eligible for the Morgan Morton Study Abroad Fund. Placements Do you need help planning your career? Contact Career Services for help. Student Organizations Do you want to get involved on campus? Join one of our many student associations. Student Services Do you require extra assistance? Contact Student Services for help with tutoring, advising, disability services, and more. Graduate Looking for information regarding our many graduate degree programs? MBA Programs Professional MBA Online MBA Customer-Driven MBA Entrepreneurship MBA Executive MBA International MBA * *Graduates of the IMBA program receive an International MBA degree. Graduates of all the other MBA tracks earn a general Master of Business Administration degree. Specialized Master's Programs MA in Economics MS in Accounting MSBA in Business Information &amp; Technology MSBA in Finance Doctoral Programs Ph.D.'s in Business Administration are offered in six areas of study including Accounting, Business Information &amp; Technology (formerly MIS), Economics, Finance, Management, and Marketing. Future Students See how a degree from Fogelman College can benefit you! FCBE Academic Integrity Cheating, plagiarizing, and other acts of dishonesty do not contribute to learning. They are, rather, attempts to avoid learning that defeat the very purpose of education. See below for our standards for academic integrity. Academic Integrity Netiquette Guide for Online Courses Understanding Plagiarism The Fogelman Student Code of Professionalism Important Contacts Undergraduate Student Services Office; 901.678.2855 email Graduate Student Services Office; 901.678.3721 email Ph.D. Admissions &amp; Retention Coordinator's Office; 901.678.5250 email Students Students Future Students Current Students Complete Professional Program Undergraduate Student Services Office FCBE Academic Integrity FCBE Standards for Academic Integrity The Fogelman Student Code of Professionalism Netiquette Guide for Online Courses Understanding Plagiarism FCBE Internships FCBE Scholarships Student Organizations Apply to our Undergraduate Programs &gt; Enroll at the university and engage yourself with our six different departments, student enrichment, and more. Apply to our Masters Programs &gt; Earn your degree with one of our six MBA tracks or with one of our four specialized Masters programs! Apply to our Doctoral Programs &gt; Interested in a Ph.D.? Start the journey towards your Ph.D. here! Contact Us &gt; Have questions? Call or email today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .