#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/herff/eece.php
EECE - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions EECE (EECE) ELECTRICAL AND COMPUTER ENGINEERING Russell Deaton, Ph.D., Chair Room 206, Engineering Science Building Undergraduate and graduate level engineering courses require an additional $25 per credit hour. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: EECE 4900-09. Special Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering. (1-3). (ELEC). Topics are varied and in online class listings. EECE 4910-19. Honors Special Topics. (3). (ELEC). Topics vary and in online class listings. PREREQUISITE: approval by the Honors Committee of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. EECE 1202 - Elec/Comp Engr Concepts (3) (ELEC). Introduction to basic electrical and computer engineering concepts and models; DC circuits; engineering ethics; use of spreadsheets, introduction to computer programming and MATLAB; basic concepts of probability and statistics. EECE 1206 - Computer Engr Computations (4) Structured solutions in computer engineering problems; computer implementation of solutions. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: EECE 1202, or sophomore standing. EECE 1207 - Electrical Engr Computations (3) Structured solutions to electrical engineering problems through use of computers. PREREQUISITE: EECE 1202 or sophomore standing. EECE 1208 - Intro Computer Engineer Lab (1) Laboratory techniques in solutions to computer engineering problems; software/hardware development tools. COREQUISITE: EECE 1207. EECE 2201 - Circuit Analysis I (4) Fundamental properties of electrical circuits; basic concepts and circuit elements; network theorems; steady-state and transient analyses. Experimental verification of basic electric circuit theory. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2120 and MATH 1920 or MATH 2421. EECE 2203 - Circuit Analysis Lab (1) Introduction to utilization of meters, oscilloscopes, oscillators, power supplies, and related test equipment in experimental verification of basic electric circuit theory. COREQUISITE: EECE 2201. EECE 2207 - Engineering Math Applications (3) Introduction to Matlab programming techniques through implementation of relevant engineering application. PREREQUISITE: EECE 1202. EECE 2222 - Digital Circuit Design (4) Review of number systems and base conversions; analysis and design of digital circuits; logic and sequential design; introduction to microprocessors and modern CAD tools; VHDL. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: EECE 1207 or COMP 1900. EECE 2281 - Instrumentation Lab (1) Introduction to basic meters, power supplies, test equipment; transient responses and AC power measurements; operational amplifier circuits, bridge circuits and transducers. Does not fulfill degree requirements for Electrical and Computer Engineering majors. Three laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: EECE 2283. EECE 2283 - Electrical Engr/Instrumntation (3) Analysis of electrical circuits, sinsoidal steady state analysis, instrumentation circuits, op amps, transducers. Does not fulfill degree requirements for Electrical and Computer Engineering majors. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1920 and PHYS 2120. EECE 3201 - Circuit Analysis II (4) Laplace transform techniques for network analysis, sinusoidal steady-state response of single and three phase circuits, resonant circuits, linear transformers and magnetic coupling, and introduction to filter design. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: EECE 2201, EECE 2207, MATH 3120. EECE 3203 - Signals and Systems I (3) Introduction to continuous-time signals and systems in time and frequency domains; system analysis of linear, time-invariant systems using Laplace and Fourier transforms and Fourier series. PREREQUISITE: EECE 2201, EECE 2207 and MATH 3120, and minimum grade of D in required for all prerequisites. EECE 3204 - Signals and Systems II (3) Introduction to discrete-time signals and systems in time and frequency domains; frequency representation of signals using discrete Fourier series, discrete Fourier transforms and Z transforms. PREREQUISITE: EECE 3201 and EECE 3203 EECE 3211 - Electronics I (4) Solid state devices as elements of electronic circuits; linear models and linear operation of these devices emphasized. Laboratory techniques on performance of basic electronic experiments. Three lecture hours and three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: EECE 2201 and 2207. EECE 3212 - Electronics II (4) Utilization of devices in linear, non-linear, and switching modes of operation; modeling and simulation of electronic circuits. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: EECE 2222, 3201, 3211. EECE 3213 - Electronics I Lab (1) Emphasis on laboratory techniques in performance of basic electronic experiments. COREQUISITE: EECE 3211. EECE 3221 - Matrix Computer Methods (3) Fundamentals of matrix theory; application of matrix theory and digital computer techniques to the solution of circuit problems; state equations and their application to the solution of systems of differential equations. PREREQUISITE: EECE 2201. EECE 3240 - Electromagnetic Field Theory (3) Maxwell's equations electrostatics, magnetostatics and time varying electromagnetic fields and waves. PREREQUISITE: MATH 2110. EECE 3270 - Intro to Microprocessor (4) LSI circuitry, microprocessor architecture, hardware and software integration, application and system design. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: EECE 2222. EECE 4081 - Software Engineering (3) (Same as COMP 4081). Scope of software engineering; software life cycle models; software process; team organization; requirements, analysis and design methodololgies; metrics, inspections, testing strategies and maintenance; software risks; professional and ethical responsibilities. PREREQUISITE: COMP 2150. EECE 4201 - Energy Conversion (4) Energy conversion by electromechanical processes, energy relations in magnetic systems, mathematical modeling of magnetic systems, transformers and electrical machines. Testing of direct and alternating current equipment. Three lecture hours and three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: EECE 2283 or 3201 and minimum grade of C- in all prerequisites. EECE 4202 - Electrical Power Systems (3) Investigation of problems associated with transmission of electrical energy; load-flow studies, and fault analysis by use of symmetrical components. COREQUISITE: EECE 4201. EECE 4203 - Energy Conversion Lab (1) Fundamental properties associated with testing and utilization of direct current and of alternating current equipment such as motors, generators, alternators and transformers. COREQUISITE: EECE 4201. EECE 4204 - Power Distribution System (3) Distribution of power from transmission systems to users; primary and secondary feeders, voltage regulation; distribution transformers; overhead, underground and network distribution system design; lightning phenomena and protective device coordination. COREQUISITE: EECE 4201. EECE 4213 - Antenna Theory/Design (3) Theory of operation and design of antennas; determination of antenna radiation characteristics; introduction to antenna array theory. PREREQUISITE: MATH 2110. EECE 4214 - Electromagnetic Fields Lab (1) Laboratory techniques associated with frequencies above 100 MHz. COREQUISITE: EECE 4215. EECE 4215 - Applied Electromagnetic Fields (3) Steady state and transient solutions of transmission line equations; plane waves; antennas in telecommunications. PREREQUISITE: MATH 2110. EECE 4221 - Electronics III (4) Applications of analog and digital electronic circuits; special purpose circuits and devices. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: EECE 3211. EECE 4222 - Digital Logic/Computer Design (3) Applications of digital system design using MSI, LSI, and VLSI circuits; design of arithmetic logic units, multiple-input controllers, and practical interfacing techniques. PREREQUISITE: EECE 2222. EECE 4230 - Data Communication System (3) Data communications in information and computing systems; analog and digital means of transmitting and controlling information; organization and requirements of data communication systems including modulation and demodulation, multiplexing, switching, error detection and correction. PREREQUISITE: EECE 3204. EECE 4231 - Communication Theory (3) Frequency and time domain; modulation, random signal theory, autocorrelation; noise, communication systems. PREREQUISITE: EECE 3203 and EECE 4235. EECE 4232 - Discrete Signal Process (3) Introduction to discrete-time signal analysis; includes discrete system concepts, discrete-time Fourier analysis, sampling of continuous-time signals, z-transform, and transform analysis of discrete time systems; structures for discrete-time systems and discrete filter design techniques. PREREQUISITE: EECE 3204. EECE 4235 - Probabilistic System Analysis (3) Probability and statistics applied to electrical and computer engineering problems; probability and random variables; statistics and techniques for estimating them; techniques for characterization of signals using autocorrelation, cross-correlation and power spectra; determination of effects of discrete and analog filters on random signals, Bayesian detection and estimation; Markov random processes. PREREQUISITE: EECE 3204. EECE 4241 - Solid State Physcl Electronics (3) Quantum concepts; statistics; crystal structure; conduction processes in solids; p-n junctions and devices; field-effect devices; charge transfer devices. PREREQUISITE: EECE 3211. EECE 4242 - Electro-Optics (3) Classical optics including Gaussian optics, Newtonian optics, and vergence theory; optical design with aberration concepts, F-numbers, pupils, and stops; radiometry with respect to flux transfer calculations; light sources and detectors. EECE 4243 - Linear Optical Systems (3) Review of Fourier techniques for analysis and design of linear systems, extension to 2-dimensional techniques, 2-dimensional transform applied to linear optical systems and optical data processing. PREREQUISITE: EECE 3204. EECE 4251 - Control System Engr (3) General equations of physical linear systems and their transfer functions; transient analysis and stability of servo systems; Bode plot, Nichols chart, Nyquist plot, Routh criterion, root locus methods, introduction to compensation techniques and systems in state space. PREREQUISITE: EECE 3203, MATH 3242. EECE 4252 - Digital Control Systems (3) Problems and analysis techniques applicable to digital control systems. Prior knowledge of Laplace transforms required; basic knowledge of feedback control theory desirable. PREREQUISITE: EECE 3204, MATH 3242. EECE 4253 - Control Systems Lab (1) Investigations of fundamental properties associated with control systems engineering; laboratory procedures in analysis of control systems, compensating networks, analog and digital computer simulations. COREQUISITE: EECE 4251 or 4252. EECE 4254 - Digital Control System Lab (1) Investigations of fundamental properties associated with digital control systems engineering; laboratory procedures in analysis of digital control systems, compensating networks, digital computer simulations and PLCs. COREQUISITE: EECE 4252. EECE 4271 - Computer Interfacing (3) Hardware and software aspects of connecting computers to peripherals; tradeoffs between hardware and software; connecting CPUs to ROM, RAM, parallel ports and serial ports; applications to serial and parallel ports; backplane buses, displays, keyboards, A/D and D/A converters; linking interface routines to application software. PREREQUISITE: EECE 2222, or permission of instructor. EECE 4272 - Engineering Software (3) Procedural and object-oriented programming techniques using C and C++. Introduction to UNIX. PREREQUISITE: EECE 2207, or equivalent. EECE 4273 - Database Engineering (3) Logical database design, data models for database engineering; entity-relationship, relational, object oriented, logic data models; design theory for relational databases, relational query languages, introduction to integration of database and knowledge-base systems for engineering applications; emerging trends in database machine design and implementation. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. EECE 4275 - Network Programming (3) Introduction to engineering of computer networks, network hardware, and network software; design of software systems for network applications. PREREQUISITE: EECE 1207 or COMP 1900. EECE 4276 - Adv Network Programming (3) Advanced methods for engineering software systems; implementations of distributed object models, remote database connectivity, and reusable software components. PREREQUISITE: EECE 4275, or permission of instructor. EECE 4277 - DSP Microprocessors (4) Architecture and instruction sent of fixed-point and floating-point devices; hardware interfacing, host communication, real-time signal generation, filtering, and code development using assembly language and C. PREREQUISITE: EECE 2222 and EECE 3204. EECE 4278 - Computer Organization (3) Organization and structure of CPU, memory, operating system, I/O system organization and implementation issues; hardware and software integration and co-design. PREREQUISITE: EECE 3270. EECE 4279 - Professional Development (3) Design, ethics, standards, participation in professional organizations; preparation for licensing; preparation for senior design project; contemporary issues and the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context. PREREQUISITE: EECE 3201, 3211, 3270 and permission of instructor. EECE 4280 - Electricl/Computer Engr Design (3) Individual and/or team design projects that require application of electrical engineering or computer engineering concepts. Oral and written presentations required. PREREQUISITE: EECE 3204, 4279, 4991; for BSCPE degree: EECE 4081. Permission required. EECE 4710 - Computer Architecture (3) Architecture and design of computers, performance measures, instruction sets, datapaths, I/O systems, and memory hierarchies. PREREQUISITE: EECE 4278. EECE 4711 - Fault Tolerant Computer Des (3) Evaluation of computer system design and reliability using reliability block diagrams, fault trees, reliability graphics, queuing networks, error detecting and correcting codes, and Markov models; principles of fault tolerant hardware and software design. PREREQUISITE: EECE 4278. EECE 4712 - Embedded Systems (3) Introduction to hardware and software design of computing systems embedded in electronic devices; programmable processor design; peripherals, memories, interfacing, and hardware/software tradeoffs. Laboratory involves of use of synthesis tools, programmable logic, microcontrollers, and development of working embedded systems. PREREQUISITE: EECE 3270. EECE 4720 - Intro Artificial Intelligence (3) (Same as COMP 4720). Fundamentals of programming in LISP; central ideas of artificial intelligence, including heuristic search, problem solving, slot-and-filler structures, and knowledge representation. PREREQUISITE: EECE 2207, permission of instructor. EECE 4730 - Expert Systems (3) (Same as COMP 4730). Fundamentals of programming in PROLOG, central ideas of expert system development, including knowledge representation, control structures, tools, knowledge acquisition, and knowledge engineering. PREREQUISITE: EECE 2207, or permission of instructor. EECE 4731 - Data Visualization (3) (Same as COMP 4731). Introduction to the terminology, methodology, and applications of data visualization. Methods for visualizing data from a variety of engineering and scientific fields including both static and time varying data and methods for generating both surface and volume visualizations. PREREQUISITE: COMP 2150, or permission of instructor. EECE 4905 - Electrical Power Quality (3) Power quality phenomenon, voltage sags and interruptions, transient overvoltages, long-duration voltage variations, fundamental of harmonics. distributed generation and power quality, power quality benchmarking and monitoring. PREREQUISITE: EECE 4201. EECE 4991 - Electrical/Computer Projects I (3) Independent investigation of problem selected in consultation with instructor; report required. PREREQUISITE: EECE 3201, EECE 3203, EECE 3211. Minimum grade of C-in all prerequisites.. EECE 4992 - Electrical/Computer Project II (1-3) Design, implementation and testing of project investigated in EECE 4991; report required. PREREQUISITE: EECE 4991 with a minimum GPA of 2.0 in EECE courses completed at the University of Memphis. EECE 4993 - Research Studies (3) Consultation, reading, and design work to investigate selected areas of electrical engineering or computer engineering under supervision of faculty member; formal paper required; emphasis on applied work, design, and scientific writing. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. EECE 4999 - Honors Thesis (3) Under the direction of a faculty member, the student writes and defends a thesis based upon background reading and experimental research on a topic in electrical engineering. PREREQUISITE: approval by the Honors Committee of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .