#http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/vetedben/resources.php
Resources - Registrar - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty &amp; Staff Forms Veterans Ed Benefits Veterans Benefits Responsibilities and Reminders Certification Resources FAQ Notice! Home Registrar Veterans Resources Resources Comparing UofM and Other Institutions College Navigator A useful site for "comparative shopping," allowing you to view information and statistics (expenses, enrollment figures, programs/majors, financial aid, etc.) for a list of institutions you define by institution type and location (by state or by distance from a particular zip code). College Portrait Another "comparative shopping" site. Allows you to compare one institution's costs and statistics (student body makeup, retention, graduation, etc.) to another's. The site also contains an "Affordability Estimator." College Portrait's Affordability Estimator for UofM View College Portrait's estimates for the cost of attending UofM. UofM Resources Enrollment Basics Tuition and Fees An overview credit hour costs and various fees associated with course enrollment. (Costs for books and supplies are not included; follow College Portrait's Affordability Estimator link for a "ball park" estimate of books and supplies.) Admissions Process Information on admission requirements, applications, deadlines, etc. Academic Retention Information Statistics on UofM student retention and graduation. Transfer Credit Transfer Credit Evaluation Process - Learn what you need to do in order to have credit from another institution transferred to, and evaluated by, UofM. Transfer Equivalency Tables - View a select group of transfer equivalency tables (tables that match up UofM courses with courses deemed equivalent courses at other institutions) Financial Aid Process Student Financial Aid Office - UofM's Financial Aid Office 7 Easy Steps to the FAFSA - FAFSA's quick guide to requesting federal financial aid. Fee Payment and Fee Payment Deadlines: UofM Bursar's Fee Payment Information Fee payment options, plans, calendars, and deadlines. Residency (for paying in-state tuition) Criteria for Tennessee residency (in-state tuition). Registration Overview of Registration Quick Guide to Online Registration Selecting a Veterans Benefit Advice from UofM's Veterans Educational Benefits &amp; Certification Office. Academic &amp; Degree Planning Information Catalogs (includes Academic Standards, Degree Plans, Course Descriptions, and more) Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Law School: Academic Regulations UMDegree An online degree-planning aid you can use to track your undergraduate degree progress or to look at "what if" scenarios ( What if I change my major to Xxxx? What would be involved? ) Campus Life &amp; Assistance Adult and Commuter Services Information for commuter students and for students who are older than the traditional 18-21 year old group. Includes information on support groups/organizations as well as off-campus housing, transportation, and more. Career Services Offers assistance with career planning, including advice on resume writing; interview preparation; mock interviews; and internship and job search preparation. Child Development Center Information on campus child care - hours, policies, curriculum, meals, etc. Counseling Center Counseling; psychiatric and wellness services. Disability Resources for Students Disability policies, accommodations, and services; information on the Assistive Technology Lab. Student Health Center Clinic location and hours; immunization requirements; health information and educational material. Tutoring (Educational Support Center) Tutors are available at Educational Support Program centers across the campus. One-on-one tutoring is available; workshops, seminars, and online tutoring are available as well. Veterans Resource Center The Veterans Resource Center (VRC) is committed to providing veterans, active-duty, National Guard, reservists and qualified dependents with the services necessary to pursue their academic and personal interests, integrate into the campus community, and ultimately ensure a successful experience. Among other amenities, the Center contains a lounge area, meeting and study space, and computers for Student Veteran use. Monthly seminars of topics of interest to the Veteran community are held here. State of Tennessee Resources Tennessee Department of Veteran Affairs News bulletins as well as information on state benefits, services, and discounts. Federal Resources Veteran Affairs Home The Department of Veterans Affairs home page, especially valuable for links to VA forms, important notices, and locations of hospitals, clinics, and regional benefits offices. GI Bill® Home Contains information on the various programs and information on applying for benefits. The FAQs link takes you to a valuable storehouse of questions and answers. (GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information is available at the official U.S. government Web site at Veterans Ed Benefits Veterans Benefits Responsibilities and Reminders Certification Resources FAQ Notice! Calendars Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams. Notice! Check for alerts and reminders. Contact Us Have questions? Need assistance or information? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .