#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/pdfs/mswfieldmanual201516.pdf
Field Manual Master of Social Work Program Master of Social Work/Field Manual 2 University of Memphis School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy Department of Social Work Steve Soifer , PhD , MSW Chair , Department of Social Work 226 McCord Hall Memphis, TN 38152 The University of Memphis, a Tennessee Board of Regents institution, offers equal opportunity to all persons without regard to race, religion, sex, creed, color, national origin or disability. The University does not discriminate on these bases in recruitment and admission of students or in the operation of its programs and activities, as specified by federal laws and regulations. Designated coordinators for University compliance wit h Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 are the Vice President for Student Affairs and the Equal Opportunity Compliance Officer. Information in this document will be provided in alternate format upon request. The University of Memphis is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action University. It is committed to education of a non - racially identifiable student body. The University of Memphis is one of 45 institutions in the Tennessee Board of Regents syste m, the seventh largest system of higher education in the nation. The TBR is the governing board for this system, which comprises six universities, 13 community colleges and 26 area technology centers. The TBR system enrolls more than 80 percent of all Tenn essee students attending public institutions of higher education. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 3 Field Manual Master of Social Work Program Table of Contents 6 Mission Statements 7 The 7 College of Arts and 7 School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy 0 7 Department 0 7 0 8 Pu 0 9 Purpose of the Social Work Profession 0 9 Purpose of Social Work Education 0 9 Purpose of Field Education 10 Goals of the Master of Social Work Program 10 Goals of the Field Practicum .. 1 1 1 3 1 3 1 4 Concentration Curriculum 1 5 Role of Fie 1 8 Policies and Procedures (Program Design) 20 C 20 23 Master of Social Work/Field Manual 4 Se 24 Acceptance and Placemen 26 Selection of Field Instr 2 8 Ethics 30 Profession 31 Professional Bou 33 Academ 33 Policies and Procedu 35 36 36 P 36 36 37 Use of Job as Practicum 37 8 3 8 Roles and Respon 3 9 The Department 3 9 Director of Fi 3 9 Faculty 41 Field Instru 41 Field Ins 42 Student in Fi 44 4 8 Appendix A: Student Information / Forms 4 9 A - 1: Overview of F A - 2 : Checklist for 1 st Semester of Field Placement . . 52 Master of Social Work/Field Manual 5 A - 3 : Field Applic ation for 1 st Year Placemen 52 A - 4: Letter of Assignment for 1 st Year Placement 61 A - 5 : 1 st Year Placement Interview 62 A - 6 : NASW Membership and Liability Coverage .. .. . A - 7 : Agreement to Abide by NASW Code of Ethics .. A - 8 : Release of Liabil ity and Hold Harmless Agreement 66 A - 9 : Letter of Assignment for 2 nd 67 A - 10: nd Year Placement Interview 6 8 Appendix B: Instructor / Liaison Forms 69 B - 1: . 70 B - 2: 1 st Year Plcmt Interview . .. 73 B - 3 : nd . 74 B - 4 : Field Liaison Consult Form . Appendix C: C - 1: Foundation Year Learning Plan . C - 2: Advanced Year Learning Plan s . 102 C - 3: Time Log Forms 114 Master of Social Work/Field Manual 6 FIELD MANUAL MASTER OF SOCIAL WORK PROGRAM The Department of Social Work at the University of Memphis is situated in the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy, an academic unit within t h e College of Arts and Sciences. In service to the needs of the community, t he department has offered a Bachelor of Arts degree i n s ocial w ork for over 35 years . Extending that mission in 2011, the department accepted its first graduate students in a program that offers the Master of Social Work (MSW) degree . The MSW program was established with a single concentration p reparing stu dents for work with children and families . In its inception, the program wa s able to build on the efforts of the undergraduate program in social work, particularly the relationships the Department of Social Work already enjoy ed with a variety of public, quasi - public, and private agencies and programs that provide a variety of services to diverse client systems. Many of those relationships were essential to helping establish a foundation for the development of the MSW program and will continue to play a vi tal role in the development of the program by serving as field placement sites at first - hand knowledge and experience in the provision of social work serv ice . This manual outlines the parameters of the field program and the policies and procedures pertaining to this important component of social wor k education. Readers should note that, while the manual outlines the structure of the field program and details the policies and procedures on which the program is founded , the manual periodically will be updated to reflect changes and developments in the MSW program. Student s in the MSW program are encouraged to use this document in conjunction with the Student Handbook . Note: Throughout this document, several terms may be used interchangeably . At various times, the terms: all are used to communicate that part of the curriculum in which MSW students are engaged as social work interns in a gencies in the community; to indicate that member of the social work faculty charged with over seeing the field component of the MSW curriculum. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 7 MISSION STATEMENTS Mission Statement of the University of Memphis: The University of Memphis is a doctoral degree - granting urban research university committed to excellence in undergraduate, graduate, and professional education; in the discovery and dissemination of knowledge; in service to the metropolitan community, the state, and the nation; and in preparation of a diverse student population for successful careers and meaningful participation in a gl obal society. The University of Memphis remains committed to the education of a non - racially identifiable student body and promotes diversity and access without regard to race, gender, religion, national origin, age, disability, or veteran status. Missio n Statement of the College of Arts and Sciences: The College of Arts and Sciences offers a comprehensive liberal arts curriculum to equip its students in pursuing rich personal and professional lives. It is dedicated to providing educational opportunities that broaden student knowledge within the major areas of human study, in - depth understanding of at least one area of inquiry, and the skills and abilities necessary for a lifetime of learning, career success, and participatory citizenship. Mission Stateme nt of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy: The School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy (SUAPP) links existing units within the College of Arts and Sciences to create alliances that focus on urban a nd regional problems and create an interdiscipl academic programs and research centers prepare individuals to assume community leadership roles; provide assistance with issues confronting communities; and emphasize community oriented, multidisciplinary research within a global perspective. Mission Statement of the Department of Social Work: The Department of Social Work is committed to the mission of the University of Memphis, a learner - centered metropolitan research university providing high quality educational experiences while pursuing new knowledge through research, artistic expression, and interdisciplinary and engaged scholarship. Within this context, the mission of the Dep artment of Social Work is to transmit, develop, critically examine, and apply knowledge to advance social work practice and social welfare policy in order to promote social, cultural and economic justice for the betterment of poor, vulnerable, and oppresse d individuals, families, groups, communities, organizations, and society. The Department accomplishes Master of Social Work/Field Manual 8 this by preparing ethical and competent social work practitioners, conducting engaged scholarship, and by providing innovative leadership and service to t he community and the profession. The Department of Social Work provides a social work education program that prepares undergraduate and graduate students for professional social work practice. The educational goals of the Department are accomplished by pr oviding a high - quality, comprehensive, learner - centered educational experience focused on fostering critical thinking and lifelong learning. The Department of Social Work is committed to promoting the strengths of diversity through education, research , an d service while maintaining a particular focus on the needs of the city of Memphis and the surrounding communities. The faculty, staff and students conduct engaged scholarship and community outreach to enhance the quality of life for people in the Mid - Sou th region and throughout Tennessee , with particular concern for improving life conditions, addressing social injustice, and serving economically disadvantaged groups. Central to this mission is the creation of a culture of evidence - based practice throughout the social work community that builds the capacity to apply research to practice, the ability to assess and evaluate practice and policy effectiveness, and the competence to disseminate new knowledge to guide policy and practice. The mission of the Department code of ethics and the values of the profession Vision Statement of the Department of Social Work: The Department of Social Work seeks to be a leader in social wor k education by: preparing students with cutting - edge social work skills necessary to practice in complex settings; creating knowledge through research and engaged scholarship; reducing poverty, inequality, and social and economic injustice through evidence based practices; and addressing the needs of the Mid - South within a global perspective. Mission Statement of the M aster of Social Work Program : The mission of the Master of Social Work program is to educate advanced professional social workers for prac tice with at - risk populations, particularly children and families. The Master of Social Work program is dedicated to (a) educating social workers with knowledge, values, and skills for evidence - based practice with childre n and families; (b) advancing the knowledge base of the social work profession ; and (c) providing regional leadership in the development and implementation of policies, programs , and services for at - risk populations, particularly children and families. This mission is co nsistent with the mission of the University of Memphis, the College of Arts and Sciences, and the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 9 PURPOSE / GOALS Purpose of the Social Work Profession: The social work profession receives its sanction from public and private auspices and is the primary profession in the development, provision, and evaluation of social services. Professional social workers are leaders in a variety of organizational settin gs and service delivery systems within local, state, national and global context s . The profession of social work is based on the values of service, social and economic justice, the dignity and worth of the person, the importance of human relationships, and integrity and competence in practice. With these values as defining principles, the purposes of social work are: 1. To enhance human well - being and alleviate poverty, oppression, and other forms of social injustice; 2. To enhance the social functioning and i nteractions of individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities by involving them in accomplishing goals, developing resources, and preventing and alleviating distress; 3. To formulate and implement social policies, services, and programs that m eet basic human needs and support the development of human capacities; 4. To pursue policies, services, and resources through advocacy and social or political actions that promote social and economic justice; 5. To develop and use research, knowledge, and skill s that advance social work practice; and 6. To develop and apply practice in the context of diverse cultures. Purpose of Social Work Education: , and is based on a body o f knowledge, values, and skills. Social work education enables students to integrate the knowledge, values, and skills of the social work profession for competent practice , educating students so as to enhanc e human well - being and help meet the basic human needs of all people, with particular attention to the needs and empowerment of people who are vulnerable, oppressed, and living in poverty. To that end, social work education is committed to developing student knowledge, values, and skills essential to competent social work practice, the importance of human relationships, the dignity and worth of all persons , and integrity throughout all aspects of professional practice. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 10 Purpose of Field Education : Field placement is an important component of the social work degree program and is designed to help students integrate their academic learning so as to understand and develop good skills for entering the profession of social work . An internship placement provides opport unit ies for student s to apply concepts and skills learned in the classroom in real - world work setting s and to build work histor ies of relevant experience that will assist them in beginning their social work career s . The purpose of the internship is to pr ovide students with the opportunity to test, through practical experience, the knowledge and skills acquired in academic courses. The experience also allows students to identify areas in which they need addi tional educational experience. Through applicati on of concepts, theories, and practices learned in the classroom, s tudents learn role behavior and techniques necessary to function effectively as skillful s ocial workers . The experience provides further value by helping students decide what kind of position s they may wish to pursue after graduation. Internships primarily function to provide a learning experience for the student. Secondarily, internships provide a valuable community service by contributing to the placement agencies, offering assista nce on valued projects and bringing new ideas to practitioners. Goals of the Master of Social Work Program: Stemming from the mission statements of the Department of Social Work and the Master of Social Work Program, nine (9) program goals have been devel oped for the MSW program at the University of Memphis: Goal 1: Graduates will possess advanced knowledge, values, and skills to practice in a critical, reflective manner ; Goal 2: Graduates will possess an advanced professional foundation with an emphasis on critical thinking and the ability to implement evidence - based methods with at risk populations ; Goal 3: Graduates will possess a professional foundation with a generalist pra ctice perspective emphasizing critical thinking and relationship to practice ; Goal 4: Graduates will possess advanced knowledge, values, and skills for practice that will include at - risk communities of families and children in rural and urban environments ; Goal 5: Graduates will possess a professional foundation with a generalist perspective that includes pra ctice with both rural and urban at - risk populations ; Master of Social Work/Field Manual 11 Goal 6: Graduates will develop an array of competencies useful for working with children and fa milies at all levels of intervention ; Goal 7: G raduates will possess a professional foundation consisting of a generalist practice perspective for practice in public, publicly supported, and nonprofit settings ; Goal 8: Graduates will possess a professional foundation with a generalist perspective that includes leadership at multiple levels of service delivery ; and Goal 9: Graduates will possess advanced knowledge, values, and skills to provide leadership with and on b ehalf of children and families. Goals of the Field Practicum: The f ield practicum is rooted in the understanding that social work practitioners require knowledge and skills that enable them to assess and intervene in ways that are ethical and effective in helping transform systems that fail to sustain or promote the well - being of clients. Field ed ucation students are expected to apply the professional foundation in ways that demonstrate an understanding of social work values and ethics and their implications. In linking field to their classroom courses, students are expected to: 1. Articulate basic social work concepts, roles, processes and methods for working with individuals, families, small groups, organizations, and communities; 2. Establish a professional identity that is characterized by professional demeanor in behavior, appearance, and communica tion; 3. Apply evidence - based practice perspectives and a systems approach to problem - solving and in working with systems of various sizes and diversity; 4. Apply knowledge and understanding of federal, state, local, and agency policies, procedures, organization al structures, and channels of communication to conceptualization and implementation of practice strategies ; 5. Demonstrate appropriate analytical and interactional skills in carrying out each phase of a problem - solving process with clients, using an ecologic al systems framework for identifying problems and planning interventions at micro, mezzo, and macro levels as required; 6. Reflect use of social work values and ethics in work with client systems, colleagues, organizations and others involved in the change ef forts, particularly in maintaining confidentiality and rights to self - determination, and in respecting the uniqueness, worth, and dignity of individuals and in accepting and respecting human diversity; Master of Social Work/Field Manual 12 7. Demonstrate understanding, sensitivity, and respect fo r socio - cultural differences in working with gender differences, racial and ethnic minorities, persons of all socio - economic groups, and differences regarding sexual orientation; 8. Exhibit ability to connect with divers e clients and develop culturally respon sive therapeutic relationships in work with client systems ; 9. Engage in practices that advance social and economic justice within the placement organization and in practice at all levels of service delivery; 10. Use research methodology to evalu ate practice effe ctiveness and/ or outcomes in practice with client systems ; 11. Apply theories and conceptual frameworks of human behavior to assessment, intervention, and evaluation practices ; 12. Assume appropriate direct practitioner roles in contributing to the policy process for monitoring and improving the service delivery system in which they function; 13. Identify strengths and limitations in their knowledge, values, and skills from regular feedback of the field instructor, peers, and faculty liaison; 14. Collect, organize, and int erpret client data in regard to work with individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities ; 15. Develop competence in oral and in written communication; and 16. Develop skills in assessing the effectiveness of interventions with various systems. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 13 PROGRAM DESCRIPTION Overview of MSW Curriculum: The curriculum of the Master of Social Work program consists of two main components the first thirty (30) hours dedicated to a foundation (generalist) curriculum and the final thirty (30) hours of the program dedicated to an advanced (concentration) curriculum. These requirements include six (6) hours of field practicum each year. The program goals (outlined above) are translated into the field program through competency measures that provide an outcome performanc e approach to curriculum design. The curriculum of the program integrates ten core competencies identified by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) in such a manner as to apply to the needs of the region, and meet the mission of the Progra m, Department , School, College , and University. Within these considerations, the curriculum is designed to instill the importance of incorporating professional ethics and values into all aspects of social work practice, to thical thinking skills, to foster an appreciation and understanding about human diversity and the effects of oppression at all system levels, and to include an examination of the concerns of the social work profession with at - risk populations, human rights , an d social and economic justice. Both the foundation and concentration portions of the program emphasize evidence - based practice and critical thinking skills. The foundation curriculum is designed to prepare students for generalist social work practice through mastery of the ten core competencies. The foundation focuses on ethically - informed social work practice with diverse populations of individuals, groups, families, organizations, and communities. Beginning with the foundation curriculum and exten ding through the concentration, the MSW program educates students for work as professionals on multidisciplinary teams and in interdisciplinary settings to deliver, develop, manage, and evaluate services and to advocate for change across service delivery s ystems. proficiency in those practice behaviors that apply most directly to foundation field placement is measured both by the student and her/his field instructor at the end of each semester of the foundation placement year. Similarly, the g oal of the concentration curriculum is to advance the foundation content in a manner that prepares students to utilize evidence - based, ethically - informed social work practices to help children and families restore, maintain, and promote social functioning. The knowledge, skills, and competence acquired by students in the concentration are designed to produce advanced social work practitioners who have the skills for ethically - informed social work practice including advanced assessment, relationship buildin g/enhancement, application of goal - oriented and evidence - based interventions, evaluation of practice, and lifelong professional development. The concentration curriculum Master of Social Work/Field Manual 14 builds on the foundation curriculum to further prepare students to identify issues sal ient to client need s , to plan objectives, to logically devel op and implement interventions, and to evaluate outcomes. Again, most directly to concentration field placement is measured both b y the student and her/his field instructor at the end of each semester of the concentration placement year. In an effort t o accommodate a wide range of student needs, the MSW program of study offers options for full - time (2 years of study; 60 credit hours), extended study (3 to 4 years of study; 60 credit hours) , and advanced standing (1 - 2 years of study; 37 credit hours) . Regardless of progression through the program, the educational components of each sequencing option are the same; a ll M SW students follow the same learning expectations for field education and meet the same requirements for graduation. Embedded throughout the curriculum is a focus on social work practice with at - risk populations, particularly children and families. In a ddition, classroom and field learning experiences are dedicated to: (a) educating social workers by fostering knowledge, values, and skills for evidence - based practice with children and families; (b) advancing the knowledge base of the social work professi on; and (c) providing regional leadership in the development and implementation of policies, programs , and services for at - risk populations, particularly children and families. F oundation C urriculum : The foundation curriculum provides evidence - based knowledge, behaviors and skills for social work practice with individuals, families, groups, organizations and communities. The concentration curriculum allows students to extend the basic knowledge gained in the foundation to advanced evidence - based prac tice with families and children. Both the foundation and concentration portions of the program emphasize evidence - based practice and critical thinking skills. Students must follow a structured program of study that includes all of the following foundation courses (30 credit hours): 7001 Social Work Practice Skills (3) 7002 Individuals and Families (3) 7003 Groups (3) 7005 Psychopathology (3) 7021 SW Across the Lifespan (3) 7022 Communities & Organizations (3) Master of Social Work/Field Manual 15 7025 Scientific Methods (3) 7030 Social Welfare Policy (3) 7051 Field Placement I (3) 7052 Field Placement II (3) Advanced Standing students take the following foundation curriculum during the summer before their concentration year: 7005 Psychopathology (3) 7025 Scientific Methods (3) 7050 Advanced Standing Field (1) Concentration Curriculum The MSW program at the University of Memphis offers two concentrations: 1) Advanced Practice with Children and Families and 2) Advanced Practice with Adults and Families . The goal of the concentrations is to advance the foundation content in a manner that prepares students to utilize evidence - based, ethically - informed social work practices to help either children/youth or adults and families promote, restore, and maintain social functioning. The knowle dge, skills, and competencies acquired by students in the concentration are designed to produce advanced social work practitioners who have the skills for ethically - informed social work practice including advanced assessment, relationship building/enhancem ent, application of goal - oriented and evidence - based interventions, evaluation of practice, and lifelong professional development. Upon successful completion of all foundation courses, students move to the concentration curriculum, which includes all the f ollowing courses (30 credit hours). Advanced Practice with Children, Youth, and Families 7016 Adv. Individual Child/Youth (3) 7017 Adv. Family Child/Youth (3) 7032 Adv. Community Child/Youth (3) 7026 Evaluative Research (3) 7053 Field Placement III (3) 7 054 Field Placement IV (3) 7055 Integrative Field Seminar I (3) 7056 Integrative Field Seminar II (3) Master of Social Work/Field Manual 16 Two Electives (3 credits each for a total of 6 credits) Advanced Practice with Adults and Families 7018 Adv. Individual Adults (3) 7019 Adv. Families A dults (3) 7033 Adv. Community Adults (3) 7026 Evaluative Research (3) 7053 Field Placement III (3) 7054 Field Placement IV (3) 7055 Integrative Field Seminar I (3) 7056 Integrative Field Seminar II (3) Two Electives (3 credits each for a total of 6 credits) Electives The following electives are approved for the Master of Social Work program. Students seeking to take courses which do not appear on this list should seek approval from their advisor and the coordinator of the MSW program. Electives offe red in social work must be taken after the foundation coursework is completed. Electives in other departments may be taken earlier, although it is recommended that students hold their electives until the second year. Electives Offered in Social Work: SWRK 6937: School Social Work SWRK 7006: Dual Diagnosis SWRK 7010: Violence and the Family SWRK 7011: Mental Health and Disabilities SWRK 7013: Treatment of Trauma SWRK 7014: Brief Interventions SWRK 7031: Rural and Urban Poverty SWRK 7060 SWRK 7065: Spe cial Topics SWRK 7070: Independent Study Master of Social Work/Field Manual 17 SWRK 7996: Thesis Electives Offered in Other Departments: The Department reviewed the University of Memphis Graduate Catalog and has noted that the following courses may be of interest to social work students seek ing to fill elective requirements. The decision of whether or not to offer these courses in a given semester is made in the academic unit in which the course is housed. The Department of Social Work has no control over whether or not these courses are offe red. Academic units outside of social work may offer other courses aside from the ones on this list that are pertinent to social work. Students wishing to take courses not on this list should seek prior approval from their academic adviser and the MSW prog ram coordinator. ANTH 6551: Culture/Sex/Childbirth ANTH 7075: Methods in Anthropology ANTH 7255: Applied Anthropology & Development CJUS 7460: Race, Ethnicity, Gender and Criminal Justice CJUS 7542: Victimology: Causation, Prevention, and Intervention COMM 7014: Public Health Communication COUN 6913: Medical and Psychosocial Aspects of Rehabilitation COUN 6901: Principles and Techniques of Rehabilitation Counseling COUN 7723: Human Sexuality COUN 7751: Gender Issues in Counseling COUN 7752: Counseling GLBT EDPR 7581: Behavior Analysis/Case Design EDPR 8561: Qualitative Methods in Education PADM 7602: Public Budgeting and Finance Administration PADM 7603: Public and Nonprofit Contracts PADM 7605: Human Resources Administration PADM 7641: Theory and P ractice of Non - Profit Administration PADM 7642: Resource Development in Non - Profit Organizations PADM 7643: Nonprofit Administration & Philanthropy PADM 7663: Issues in Public Policy & Mgmt PLAN 7000: Intro to Planning Master of Social Work/Field Manual 18 PLAN 7002: Principles & Theory PLAN 7204: Urban Revitalization Planning PLAN 7206: Housing PUBH 7130: Social Determinants of Health PUBH 7131: Social and Behavioral Policy Development PUBH 7161: Adv Psychosocial Theory Health PUBH 7333: Addictive Behaviors PUBH 7334: Community Based Partici patory Research Methods PUBH 7338: Critical Issues in Global Health PUBH 7340: Behavioral Intervention Develop SOCI 7410: Sociology of Gender SOCI 7421: Racial and Social Inequality SPED 7514: Intro to ABA SPED 7516: Advanced ABA SPED 7517: Functional Behavioral Analysis WMST 7320: Women & Multi - Cultural Experience Graduate Certificate Programs The University of Memphis offers several Graduate Certificate programs in fields related to social work. Students who are interested in receiving a Graduate Cer tificate are encouraged to discuss with their advisors and to use their electives to pursue the certificate. Some of the certificate programs available include: T he Role of F ield P lacement in the Curriculum : As the signature pedagogy of social work education, field placement is an important component of the social work degree program and is designed to further academic learning by integrating theories, conceptual frameworks, values, and skills social work practice environment. The overall goal of the MSW field education program is social work situations the knowledge and skills learned in the classroom. The focus of the field practice experience is evidence - Master of Social Work/Field Manual 19 understanding of and commitment to the prof ession. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 20 POLICIES AND PROCEDURES (PROGRAM DESIGN) Course Requirements: At the University of Memphis, the field practicum consists of six (6 ) courses: two (2) courses for the foundation level of placement Foundation Field Placement I (SWRK 7051) and Foundation Field P lacement II (SWRK 7052); and four (4 ) courses for the advanced (concentration) level Concentration Field Placement I II (SWRK 7053), Concentration Field Placement IV (SWRK 7054) , Integrative Field Seminar I (SWRK 7055) and Integrative Fi eld Seminar II (SWRK 7056) . Each course is intended to complement the material being learned in the classroom setting during that semester as well as in preceding terms, with each semester building on the preceding semester(s) . Advanced standing students are required to complete Advanced Standing Field (SWRK 7050) which incorporates objectives and competencies from both the Foundation Field Placement I (SWRK 7051) and the Foundation Field Placement II (SWRK 7052) courses. As pa rt of the field course s in the foundation year of placement , students also are required to participate in an integrative seminar class (both in classroom and online settings) in which they have opportunit ies to process what they are learning in the field, apply ing theory to practice in a group setting, and learn ing from peers placed at other types of agencies . Activities related to the seminar are included in determining the grade for the respective field course in the foundation year of placement . Studen ts are eligible to begin field placement only after completing the majority of the SWRK 7001 course (Social Work Practice Skills). Extended study (part - time) students, complete the entire SWRK 7001 course prior to beginning field, whereas full - time student s phase into beginning their placements in the final two weeks of the SWRK 7001 course. Students in the foundation year of placement (both full - time and extended study) must attend and participate in the concurrent field seminar sessions. In order to succe ssfully complete the requirements for field placement, each student is required to: 1. Spend a minimum of 960 clock hours working in the field 400 hours in foundation field placement; and 560 hours in concentration field placement; 2. Complete time logs (see Appendix C - 3 ) that document her/his time and activities in the field; 3. Establish a learning contract (see Appendices C1 - 2 ) for each year of placement . Early in the field experience , the agency field instructor and the student should construct a detailed l ist of tasks and responsibilities that will lead to the Master of Social Work/Field Manual 21 accomplishment of the competencies prescribed for the field placement course. This learning contract, signed by the field instructor and the student , should be unique to the student and should be use 4. Maintain an online journal which reflects her/his reactions to issues raised in her/his work with clients, agency professionals, and peers. This journal is to be shared with the MSW field director and should and 5. Complete an evaluation of her/his performance in regard to the program competencies at the end of each semester . Students in the advanced standing program must complete the following requirements for field placement, each student is required to: 1. Spend a minimum of 570 clock hours working in the field - 10 hours in Advanced Standing Field (SWRK 7050) - student will complete volunteer hours to get acclimated to clini cal programming in the graduate school; 560 hours in concentration field placement; 2. Complete time logs (see Appendix C - 3) that document her/his time and activities in the field; 3. Establish a learning contract (see Appendices C1 - 2) for each year of placeme nt. Early in the field experience, the agency field instructor and the student should construct a detailed list of tasks and responsibilities that will lead to the accomplishment of the competencies prescribed for the field placement course. This learnin g contract, signed by the field instructor and the student, should be unique to 4. Maintain an online journal which reflects her/his reactions to issues raised in her/his work with clients , agency professionals, and peers. This journal is to be shared with and 5. Complete an evaluation of her/his performance in regard t o the program competenci es at the end of each semester. Students interested in pursuing School Social Work Lice nsure during their graduate programming must complete the following requirements for field placement : 1. Evidence of completion of a field placement for a minimum of one academic year in a school setting (minimum of 400 clock hours). This requirement can also be satisfied through employment for at least six months as a school social worker in a school setting. In the latter instance, we must receive a letter directly from your supervisor Master of Social Work/Field Manual 22 with a description of length of employment, duties, and an evaluation of your performance in this setting. Students should meet with their academic advisor/major professor early in their first year of study (M SSW) in order to plan an appropriate program which meets the course requirements, field experience requirement, and the six standards for state licensure. Upon completion of the degree and additional requirements, application for Tennessee state licensure in school social work can be made. 2. Must take part in activities within the context of field that incorporate the following six standards dictated by the Tennessee State Department of Education: 1) Understanding of social, emotional, cultural and economic i ssues affecting students and schools and ability to assist students and families in overcoming barriers to learning; 2) Understanding of the needs of students at risk due to disability, economic condition, family disruption or other environmental factors a nd ability to work with teachers, school counselors, school psychologists and family resource center staff in addressing student needs; 3) Ability to serve as liaison between home and school, assist parents in understanding their children's needs, interpre t student assessments to parents, and work with the parents in developing parenting skills; 4) Ability to perform case management functions, facilitating the coordination and integration of community services to benefit students and their families; 5) Abil ity to support students with special needs by preparing social histories, contributing to the development and implementation of individualized education programs (IEPs) and helping ensure the participation of parents; 6) Understanding of federal, state and local laws and policies affecting students including issues such as services for disadvantaged students, services required by students with disabilities, due process rights of students and families, child abuse and neglect, HIV and AIDS, confidentiality, attendance, suspension and expulsion. 3. Complete time logs (see Appendix C - 3) that document her/his time and activities in the field; 4. Establish a learning contract (see Appendices C1 - 2) for each year of placement. Early in the field experience, the agency field instructor and the student should construct a detailed list of tasks and responsibilities that will lead to the accomplishment of the competencies prescribed for the field placement course. This learning contract, signed by the field instructor and the student, should be unique to 5. Maintain an online journal which reflects her/his reactions to issues raised in her/his work with clients, agency professionals, and peers. This journal is to be shared with and 6. Complete an evaluation of her/his performance in regard to the program competencies at the en d of each s emester. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 23 Grading: Students are evaluated at the end of each term. The program competencies define the standards by which both the field instructor and student evaluate the student's performance. In the foundation year of placement, t hese evaluation results are combined with scores obtained by the student through participation in field seminar to determine a grade for the respective semester. All f ield grades for both the foundation and the concentration years of placement are given by the Director of Field Placement for the Department of Social Work. If a student receives less than a "B" in field, s/he will be reviewed by the MSW program retention committee . In such cases, will be addressed by the MSW program retention committee. Generally this committee will consist program retention committee will review oral and written reports of th performance and the student will be given the opportunity to address the committee. The committee will deliberate and decide whether or not to recommend dismiss al of the student from the program to the Associate Dean for Graduate Studies or the Student Judicial Affairs Committee . Students shall be dismissed from field placement only after the appropriate disciplinary or academic policies and procedures of the university have been followed. However, while involved in placement, students should b e cognizant that they s erve at the approval of the agency to which they are assigned. As an extension of this provision, t he agency may immediately remove from its premises any student who they believe poses an immediate threat or danger. If the decision made by the MSW program retention committee is not to recommend dismissal , the student will be given an opportunity to re - take the field course for that year of placement (foundation or concentration), but will have to start over at a different agency wit h zero (0) hours credited toward the respective year of placement. If decision is to recommend dismissal of the student from the program, the student will be given a letter explaining the rationale behind the decision. In accordance with university also will be reviewed by either the Associate Dean for Graduate Studies of the College of Arts and Sciences or by the Student Judicial Affairs Committee. The decision of either the Associate Dean for Graduate Studies or the Student Judicial Affairs Committee will be final. If the student wishes to appeal the decision made by the Associate Dean for Graduate Studies or the Student Judicial Affairs Committee, he or she must follow university policies out lined in the Code of Student Rights and R esponsibilities . A grade of "Incomplete" can be given if evaluation of the student's progress is not received by the Director of Field Placement by the specified date. If 2/3 of the hours needed in field are not Master of Social Work/Field Manual 24 in field. If the student has accrued at least 2/3 of the hours required for the semester, but is short hours due to unforeseen circumstance (previously discussed with the seminar and field Unless the student completes the term in which it was received (see University Calenda for the subsequent semester . The student will be certified for graduation when all requirements are met, including the expect to graduate, the certification process and graduation will automatically be deferred to the next term. Selection of the Practicum Agency/Institution: Field settings are selected based upon their a bility to offer students experience in providing social work services and adequate supervision for the specific activities in which they are engaged in the respective year of placement generalist skills for foundation field, and skills specific to the program concentra tion for advanced field. For both years of placement, settings must be able to provide a range of activities such that the student will be able to demonstrate competence across the range of practice behaviors identified on the competency matrix for the res pective year of placement. A key feature in the selection of a field agency is whether it can provide adequate supervision for the placement experience. Per the mandates of the Council on Social Work Education, such supervision must be provided by an instructor who holds a M degree in social work from a CSWE - accredited program . Additionally, the Department of Social Work prefers that said instructor have at least two years of post - MSW experience. Agencies selected to serve as placement sites are expected to promote the educati onal aspect of this process by allowing the agency staff member designated to serve as the field instructor sufficient time to: a. Hold regular weekly conferences with each student; b. Be available in emergency situations; c. Have conferences with the faculty liaison at least once a semester; d. Attend meeting s sponsored by the Department of Social Work ; and e. Prepare evaluations of the student's work. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 25 The Department of Social Work foresees rare situations in which an agency might not be able to provide student sup ervision by an agency staff member who holds a CSWE - accredited social work degree (e.g. , a field instructor leaves the agency in the middle of the placement and is replaced by someone other than a social worker). In these circumstances, a faculty member ma y be asked to serve as field instructor. In such situations, the agency should provide the faculty member with adequate space to meet with the student, as needed, and should assign an agency staff member to serve as liaison to the field instructor. This liaison will be charged with the responsibility to provide orientation and ongoing information about agency policies and to facilitate assignments for the student . For the student, the agency should provide a suitabl e workspace. This g enerally should include a desk and chair, telephone, computer, supplies, and access to clerical services, but the Department of Social Work recognizes that work environments vary from one agency to another. In all cases, students should be privileged to privacy when conducting client services that require confidentiality. Some agencies may provide reimbursement for travel or other expenses in carrying out agency business, or may offer a stipend or salary in exchange for the services the student provides. Arrangements regarding stipends and reimbursement of expenses are strictly between the agency and the student; neither the University of Me mphis, nor the Department of Social Work, ha s any standing in such arrangements. The criteria for selecting a field education agency includes, but is not limited to: 1. The agency/institution must be legally established; 2. The agency/institution must follow t he guidelines of the Council o n Social Work Education (CSWE) for MSW programs; 3. The agency/institution must be an organization that embraces and incorporates the values and ethics of the National Association of Social Workers (NASW); 4. The agency must offer social work practice across micro, mezzo, and /or macro systems , providing direct services that are preventive, habilitative, or rehabilitative; 5. Clients from the agency must be sufficiently diverse in terms of gender, race, ethnicity, age, culture, religio n, sexual orientation and identity , and social class s o as to insure that students are expos ed to issues that have an impact on a range of people and problems; 6. The agency/institution must provide direct weekly supervision with a social worker who holds a M SW degree from an accredited institution, but also can include diverse learning opport unities under the supervision of various staff members ; Master of Social Work/Field Manual 26 7. Although students are to be involved in doing the work of the agency, said agency must recognize that field placement is a learning experience and must agree to view work expectations and workloads for students differently from those of staff; 8. T he agency/institution must provide facilities for t he student's use (e.g. , office space, office equipment , etc. ); 9. The agency/institution must observe policies of non - discrimination in regard to race, ethnic origin, sex, age, religion, disability, or sexual orientation and identity ; 10. The agency/institution must allow time necessary for the field instructor to adequately supervise students, meet with the faculty liaison and/or the D irector of F ield P lacement , attend training (s) , and prepare student evaluations as required ; 11. Membership in a national standard - setting body appro priate to its function or licensing by the state is desirable. The agency must approve the arrangements for the practicum and the agency staff must be receptive to students and willing to cooperate with their program of learning ; and 12. The agency/institutio n must provide a learning environment that allows the student to demonstrate all ten core competencies outlined in the Educational Policy and Accreditation Standards of the Council on Social Work Education. Acceptance and Placement of Students in Field Practice: The following criteria are used for accepting and placing students in field positions: 1. Students are eligible to begin foundation field placement only after completing the majority of the SWRK 7001 course (Social Work Practice Skills). Extended st udy (part - time) students, complete the entire SWRK 7001 course prior to beginning field, whereas full - time students phase into beginning their placements in the final two weeks of the SWRK 7001 course ; 2. Students are to make a formal written application for the foundation year of field placement. For full - time students, this application is to be submitted immediately after they are accepted into the MSW program; part - time students should submit their application for the foundation ye ar while engaged in cours ework 4 - 6 months prior to wh en they plan to begin placement ; 3. Along with submitting an application for field placement , the student must join the National Association of Social Workers (NASW) and purchase liability insurance (with m inimum coverage of 1,000 ,000 / 5 ,000,000), and provide documentation of such coverage to the D irector of F ield P lacement ; Master of Social Work/Field Manual 27 4. primary basis for these assignments is information provided by the student on an application for field placement (see Appendix A - 3 ), but the field director also may rely on ancillary information (e.g. information the student already has provided in her/his application to the MSW program and information shared in classes, if applicable). In completing the field application form, the s tudent is invited to indicate the type of social work agency to which s/he would like to be assigned, but the preferences. Assignment to placement is solely the province of the progr Director of Field Placement ; 5. Students are notified of their foundation assignments via e - mail, asking them to contact a specific person at the assigned agency to request an interview for placement with the agency . Generally this person is the fiel supervisor while in placement, but for some agencies the point of contact is a coordinator of interns. In making the assignment, the field director sends both the student and the prospective field instructor (or coord inator of interns) a form to be sent back to the field director following the interview. For the agency, this form allows them to indicate whether they feel the placement can proceed or if they feel the matter needs further consideration, whereas the stude nt form asks the student to document when and where s/he is to report on the first day of placement as well as requirements to which the student must attend prior to beginning placement (e.g., background check, physical exam, TB test, orientation) ( See App endi ces A - 2, A - 3, and A - 4 for forms rel ated to the assignment process); 6. Based on this interview, if neither the instructor nor the student strongly objects to moving forward, the student formally is assigned to that agency/institution for placement. Students may then want to contact the faculty liaison to the respective agency/institution in order to learn more about the placement; 7. When the placement plan is not acceptable either to the student or to the agency/institution, these concerns should be brought to the attention of the Director of F ield P lacement , who has the responsibility of addressing these concerns . Even in these situations, however, a ssignment to placement remains solely the province o f Director of Field Placement ; Master of Social Work/Field Manual 28 8. The process of assignment for concentration placements differs in that students have more voice in selecting the agency at which they would like to do placement. The field director still is charged with making the actual assignme nt, but students have the opportunity to interview with more than one placement site and both student and agency preferences are given strong consideration in deciding which student will be assigned to which agency. Again, assignments are done via e - mail but, in most cases, this is done following the interview process, not preceding it. Although students are more involved in se lecting the agency at which they will do their concentration Director of Field Placement ; and 9. In the interest of assuring a well - rounded social work education , students are no t allowed to do their concentration placement at the same agency at which they did their foundation placement. In that same interest of assuring a well - rounded social work experience, students admitted to the a dvanced s tanding program (when that option bec omes available) will not be allowed to do their placement at the same agency at which they did an undergraduate placement. (Please note: various programs within the same agency are not to be considered separate placement sites). 10. Possible impact of a misd emeanor or felony record on students pursuing field placement: A misdemeanor or felony conviction may impact your internship and employment prospects, because many agencies and employers request criminal records of their prospective interns and hires. In a ddition, a conviction may impact your ability to secure liability insurance as an intern/professional as well as licensure upon graduation from an accredited social work program. Below are the identified practices of the NASW, liability companies, and the Tennessee Board of Social Workers: NASW A conviction does not prevent a student from being able to apply and be accepted into the NASW. Liability Insurance - Will consider liability insurance for a student or professional with a felony/misdemeanor conviction on a case by case basis. They do not guarantee approval. TN Board of Social Workers A student with a conviction must provide a letter of explanation and documents form jurisdiction with disposition indicated. The board will review and consider each application on a case by case basis. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 29 Selection of Field Instructors: Anyone selected to serve as field instructor must hold a M D egree in S ocial W or k from a CSWE - accredited program . The Department of Social Work also prefers the instructor have at least two years of post - MSW practice experience. Those who indicate an interest in serving as field instructors are asked to complete an informational form on which they document their academic credentials and professional background ( s ee Appendix B - 1 ). The program foresees rare situations in which an agency might not be able to provide student supervision by an instructor who holds a CSWE - accredited social work degree (e.g. , a field instructor leaves the agency in the middle of the placement and is replaced by someone other than a social worker). In these cases, a member of the social work faculty, in close collaboration with the agency, will be asked to pro vide such supervision. These situations would be exceptions to standard practice. Field instructors should be comfortable teaching from a conceptual standpoint as well as training students to perform specific tasks. Persons serving as field instructors a re expected to have demonstrated a high level of skill with respect to communication and practice , as well as being committed to the education of students. Prior experience in supervision is desirable. Those selected as field instructors also must express a willingness to participate in all aspects of the field program as outlined in this manual attending pertinent training sessions, co rrespond ing with the faculty liaison and D irector of F ield P lacement , providing meaningful student supervision, and completing forms (e.g. , the learning agreement, performance evaluations, and signing off on time logs) necessary to substantiate the field education process. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 30 ETHICS AND VALUES IN FIELD INSTRUCTION Social work is a profession that is organized around th e assumption that people have a right to the social services necessary for a good quality of life and that society has a corresponding responsibility to provide these services. In this capacity, social work is responsible for providing services designed t o enhance the functioning of individuals, families, groups, and larger systems in relation to intra - and inter - personal factors, as well as to environmental components that impinge up on their lives. These services are based on the philosophy, the body of knowledge, and the methodolog ies for practice promot ed by the social work profession. Practice in social work addresses the person - in - situation with a clearly defined unde rstanding of the interdependence between the individual and society. Students are e ncouraged to develop consistent patterns of respect for the commitment of the profession to serving populations - at - risk e.g. , consideration of issues related to race, gender, ethnicity, culture, age, class, religion, sexual orientation, and disability. Although each client is a unique person with different life experiences, there also is acknowledgment that there are common human needs that must be addressed in social work practice. To this end, field placement students must demonstrate an ability to a nalyze, formulate, and advocate for social welfare policies that impact the client population(s) with whom they are working and to explore ways in which they can address the broader societal and ed. Students are taught to assess and intervene in the lives of their clients using the ethics and values that guide the profession. Prior to beginning field placement, students study and discuss the C ode of E thics of the National Assoc iation of Social Workers (NASW) ( See ). In response to their study of the code , students are required to sign a form ( s ee Appendix A - 7 ) , indicating their willingness to adhere to the principles outlined in the code throughout their field practicum . Students are encouraged to reflect on the values and ethics that have been taught within the classroom setting as these concerns now become an integral part of their practice in the field placement. Discussions are facilitated in the concomitant field seminar (of the foundation year) intended to help students to see the utility of the C ode of E thics and the importance of applying social work va lues and ethics to casework situations. Emphasis is given in the placement to issues of self - determination, the client's right to participate in the helping process, and to confidentiality. In looking at what techniques and policies hamper the client's se lf - determination, the social work student is encouraged to become an advocate for the client. Additionally in his/her role as client advocate, the Master of Social Work/Field Manual 31 right to co nfidentiality. As part of this role, it is incumbent upon the social work student to inform the client of those times when confidentiality will not be maintained e.g. , when there is a serious suicide threat/attempt, when threats against others occur, or when legal requirements to report abuse of any nature are met. Professional C onduct: Students enrolled in the Master of Social Work program must conduc t themselves in a professional and ethical manner toward clients, students, faculty, and staff. Professional conduct is expected at all times . The Department of Social Work, through its faculty and appropriate committees, reserves the discretionary right to recommend dismissal from the program of any student who exhibits failure to maintain appropria te personal conduct or professional standards and ethics. Any act that would constitute unethical practice, professional misconduct, or violations of the law (whether committed in college - related activities or not) may be ground for disciplinary action u p to and including dismissal from the program. The NASW Code of Ethics and The University of Memphis Student Code of Rights and Responsibilities serve as guidelines and standards for professional conduct both on - and off - campus. In their role as social work educators, t he members of the faculty of the Department of Social Work are charged with a gate - keeping function in which they are responsible for assessing the professional measured in regard to skills and knowledge level s , but also by consistent ethical competence . In light of that charge, students should understand that if there is evidence of the student's lack of professional preparedness and/or ethics, the Department of Social Work may recommend the student be dismissed from the MSW program . Such a lack could include, but is not limited to, the following examples: 1. Documented behavior that is inconsistent with the C ode of E thics of the Nationa l Association of Social Workers; 2. Documented problems in behavior or performance, which raise questions from the Such problems could include, but are not limited to, the following list of beh aviors : a. Inappropriate behaviors and/or communications with client ( s ) ; b. Fo rced or coerced sexual behavior with client (s) ; c. Sexual activity with client (s) including, but not limited to, kissing, fondling, or sexual intercourse ; d. Physical aggression , such as hitting, spanking, or slapping, directed at client (s) , student (s) , faculty or staff member(s) ; Master of Social Work/Field Manual 32 e. Physical or emotional threats directed toward client (s) , student (s), faculty or staff member(s) ; f. Acceptance of gifts or money (not considered standard pa yment for services) from client (s). S tudents shall not ask for , or accept , gifts from client (s) ; g. Illegal or unethical behavior that limits or takes away client (s) results in financial, material, or emotional loss for client (s) or gain for the so cial work student ; and/ or h. Sexual harassment of client (s) . 3. Plagiarism, cheating, or any other form of ac ademic dishonesty or disruption; 4. Failure of the student to maintain a 3.0 GPA beyond one semester of academic probation; 5. Failure to follow policies and r ules as outlined in the MSW Student Handbook, the MSW Field Manual, or the University of Memphis Student Code of Stude nt Rights and Responsibilities ; 6. Failure to comply with policies and procedures of the professional agency; and /or 7. Non - attendance at the clinical site. Concerns about unethical behavior will be addressed by the MSW program retention committee. If the unethical behavior occurs in regard to academic processes other than field placement, the program retention committee will consist of: 1) the classroom instructor, and 3) one additional faculty member. If the unethical behavior occurs in regard to field placement, the program retention committee will consist of: 1) the Director of Field Pla cement , and 3) the faculty liaison. If the unethical behavior occurs in regard to a student organization event, the program retention organization, and 3) another fa culty member. unethical behavior. The student will be given the opportunity to address the committee. The committee will deliberate and decide whether or not to recomm end dismissal of the student. If a decision is made to recommend dismissal , the student will be given a letter explaining the rationale behind the decision. The Department of Social Work will then follow University policies and procedures for dismissal by Associate Dean for Graduate Studies and Research in the College of Arts and Sciences or to the Student Judicial Affairs Committee , as indicated . Students who wish to appeal a recommendation of dismissal must first write a letter of appeal to the MSW P rogram Coordinator . satisfaction by the MSW Program Coordinator , the student must follow the grievance procedures of the Graduate School as outlined in the Gra duate Catalog. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 33 Professional B oundaries: In their work with clients, students are reminded that they are to maintain professional boundaries at all times. This provision includes, but is not limited to: Refraining from engagement in any type of dual relationship with a client; Refraining from giving clients his/her cell phone number; and/or S exual H arassment: Harassment is repre hensible and will not be tolerated by the University. It subverts the mission of the University and threatens the careers, educational experience, and wellbeing of students, faculty, and staff. Incidents involving sexual harassment or racial harassment h ave no place within the University, nor in its programs (e.g. field practicum). In both obvious and subtle ways, even a suggestion of sexual or racial harassment is destructive to individual students, faculty, staff and the academic community as a whole. When through fear , or reprisal, a student, staff member, or faculty member submits or is pressured to submit to unwanted sexual attention, the University's ability to carry out its mission is undermined. While sexual harassment most often takes place in situations of a power differential between the persons involved, the University also recognizes that sexual harassment may occur between persons of the same status. The University will not tolerate harassm ent between or among members of the University or its programs . Sexual harassment and racial harassment have been held to constitute forms of discrimination prohibited by Title VI, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended and Title IX of the E ducational Amendments of 1972. The University may be held liable pursuant to Title VI or Title VII and/or lose federal funds pursuant to Title IX for failure to properly investigate and remedy claims of sexual or racial harassment. A cademic C onduct Gradu ate students at the University of Memphis are expected to observe the regulations and policies that govern the behavior of students as members of this academic community. These regulations and policies are published in the MSW Student Handbook. In particul ar, graduate students should become familiar with the University's policies on plagiarism in its various forms. Furthermore, term papers may not be used to meet the requirements of more than one course unless approved in advance by both instructors. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 34 The Un iversity of Memphis Code of Student R ights and R esponsibilities defines academic misconduct as all acts of cheating, plagiarism, forgery, and falsification. Using any unauthorized assistance in taking quizzes or tests ; Using sources beyond those authorized by the instructor in writing papers, preparing reports, solving problems, or carrying out other assignments ; Acquiring tests or other academic material before such material is revealed or distributed by the instructor ; Misrepresenting papers, reports, assignments or other materials as the product of a when this is not the case ; Failing to abide by the instructions of the proctor concerning test - taking procedures ; Influ encing, or attempting to influence, any u niversity employee in order to affect a ; and/or Any forgery, alteration, unauthorized possession, or misuse of u niversity documents . The term plagiarism includes but is not limited to the use, by paraphrase or direct quotation, of the published or unpublished work of another person without full or clear acknowledgement. It also includes the unacknowledged use of materials prepared by another person or agency engaged in the selling of te rm papers or other academic materials. Academic misconduct also includes furnishing false information to a University official, faculty member, or office; or the forgery, alteration, or misuse of any University document, record, or instrument of identific ation. The Academic Discipline Committee, a standing University committee appointed by the President, addresses allegations of academic misconduct. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 35 POLICIES AND PROCEDURES (GENERAL) The student in field practice has a responsibility to perform in the same professional manner as an employed staff member and is expected to follow agency policies and abide by the rules and regulations of the agency as well as those of the Department of S ocial Work. These responsibilities include: 1. Protecting the confidentiality of all information about clients; 2. Observing agency working hours; 3. Being at the agency when assigned to be so; 4. Being on time for the placement and punctual in completion of assignme nts; 5. Being available for client emergencies if at all possible, even if these occur after regular hours; 6. Completing and submitting activity reports in a timely fashion; 7. Notifying the field instructor in advance (if possible) of unavoidable absences or tard iness; and 8. Making up time for absences and tardiness. As a general rule, students spend only the required number of hours per week in field practice and reserve the other time for classroom courses and study. Classroom work should not be done during field practice and, ordinarily, students should not be aske d to fulfill field obligations during class time. A student who works overtime in field practice for client emergencies or special projects may arrange with the field instructor to take time off for necessary academic work. On some occasions when students are encouraged by faculty of the Department of Social Work to participate in off - site activities (e.g., Social Work Day on the Hill), it is left to the discretion of the field instructor whether the hours involved in those activities should be considered a Some agencies may prefer that students spread the required field hours over more than two days per week in order to provide client coverage, and some students with part - time jobs or child care responsibilities may request some flexibility in scheduling for field practice. The Department of Social Work has no objection to any arrangement that provides the necessary learning experiences, meets the requirement for hours of field practice, is satisfactory to the agency and student, and insures good service to clients. Similarly, students who wish to be involved in placement between the semesters of the practicum year (i.e. , between SWRK 7051 and 7052, or between SWRK 7053 and 7054) may do so only val. In such instances Master of Social Work/Field Manual 36 following semester, but the student must remain engaged in placement throughout the entirety of the subsequent semester. Communication An e - mail account is available free of charge to University of Memphis students. This U o M account will be the official contact used for all Department of Social Work correspondence. If the student elect s to use another e - mail service, s/he must obtain an accou nt through the university and forward her/his mail to the personal account. Much correspondence is conveyed to students via email so the account should be checked frequently. Students are asked to ensure that the Department office has a current e - mail a ddress, mailing address and telephone number. The success of this degree program depends partly on ability to foster ties to its students, alumni , and the larger community. Students can update their contact information by informing the D epartment of Social Work administrative assistant of any changes. Holidays Students are entitled to observe holidays listed on the University of Memphis calendar and to holidays and hazardous weather closing s observed by the agency even when these fall on field practice days. However the student remains responsible for making up these hours at some other time such that s/he completes the required number of hours for the placement. P rofessional L iability I nsurance: All students enrolled in field p lacement are responsible for procuring liability insurance (with a minimum coverage of 1,000,000/ 5 , 000,000) prior to the beginning of field placement. Coverage can be obtained through the National Association of Soc ial Workers Assurance Services (s ee Appendix A - 6 for information pertaining to this insurance ) . The student must provide the Director of Field Placement a copy of the certificate of coverage, verifying her/his purchase of the insurance, prior to beginning placement. Transportation Studen ts are responsible for their own transportation to and from the agency. If transportation is a problem, the student should communicate this to the D irector of F ield P lacement . Some agencies pay mileage for travel required to perform agency work. Students should ask their field instructor about mileage reimbursement if required to travel. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 37 Arrangements regarding mileage reimbursement are strictly between the agency and the student; neither the University of Memphis, nor the Department of Social Work, has a ny standing in such arrangements. Students who drive must have a valid, current driver's license and automobile liability insurance. Due to liability concerns (i.e., to be sure that s/he is covered to do so) , any student who transport s clients in her/his personal vehicle must, at the beginning of the placement, inform the provider of her/his automobile insurance that s/he is using the vehicle for internship . If s/he is asked to transport clients in an agency vehicle, s/he is to meet all requirements for l icensing and insurance coverage designated by the agency prior to providing transportation. Students who drive (or ride) in a vehicle in performance of their field responsibilities whether transporting clients or not should be aware that they are not c overed for this Financial R emuneration: Some agencies may provide reimbursement for travel or other expenses in carrying out agency business, or may offer a stipend or salary in exchange for the services the student provides. Arrangements regarding stipends and reimbursement of expenses are stri ctly between the agency and the student; neither the University of Memphis, nor the Department of Social Work, has any standing in such arrangements. Use of Job as Practicum Site: Students currently employed in a social service agency/institution or human service organization may complete their field practicum in their current job only if specific conditions are met. Approval of plans by the Director of Field Placement is required before the start of the practicum. Specific restrictions include, but are not limited to, the following: 1. Students are allowed to use their place of employment as a field placement site but can do so for only one of their two placement experiences, and only if that agency meets all requirements for serving as a placement site (in cluding, in the case of the concentration year, if that agency is suitable for the competencies specific to advanced practice); 2. activities and must be evaluated separately fr om those activities; 3. The student must be supervised by someone who is not his/her regular work supervisor. This instructor must meet the usual requirements of field instruction i.e. , someone who holds a MSW degree with at least 1 - 2 years of post - graduat e experience in the field of social work; Master of Social Work/Field Manual 38 4. The hours credited toward field placement must be distinct from employment hours (which will be gathered through the completion of the Student Request to use employment as Field form) ; and 5. Assignment Director of Field Placement . D isabilit y Services : Students with disabilities are encouraged to notify Student Disability Services for reasonable accommodations. Students must follow established university procedures for obtaining accommodations and services. Specific accommodations and services are determined on an individual basis and are based on documented functional limitations resulting from the disability. E qual O pportunity: The University of Memphis, a Tennessee Board of Regents institution, offers equal opportunity to all persons without regard to race, religion, sex, creed, color, national origin or disability. The University does not discriminate on the se bases in recruitment and admission of students or in the operation of its programs and activities, as specified by federal laws and regulations. Designated coordinators for University compliance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 are the Vice President for Student Affairs and the Equal Opportunity Compliance Officer. Information in this document will be provided in alternate format upon request. The University of Memphis is an Equal Opportun ity/Affirmative Action University. It is committed to education of a non - racially identifiable student body. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 39 ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Responsibilities of the Department of Social Work : In the partnership between itself and the cooperating field agencies/institutions, the Department of Social Work will execute the following responsibilities: 1. D esign the curriculum, establish a framework for outcome measurement ( competencies ) , determine the "norm" of expected content of field instruction (including, but not limited to, assignments), and share these with those who provide field instruction; 2. C onduct workshops and periodic meetings for field instructors and/or students to ensure understanding o f the material(s) and its use in a way that achieves the goals of the program and the particularized learning needs of the student; 3. A rrange meetings, seminars, and/or workshops for field instructors to orient, train, and coordinate class content and field practice. These times also serve to further the development of the teaching skills of the field instructors . Such sessions also are used to familiarize field instructors with current concepts and theories in social work; 4. R ecruit and make decisions regardi ng the acceptance of field instruction agencies and the placement of students in these agencies; 5. E provide, a good experience of the profession of social work; 6. Provide faculty who act as liaisons to serve as mediators between the Department of Social Work and the agency/institution regarding their respective needs, to monitor 7. A rrange practice semina rs for students in order to better prepare them for entrance into practice, and hold ongoing meetings with special emphasis on the use of the overall educational experience in the field placement . Responsibilities of the Director of F ield P lacement : The Director of Field Placement is responsible to the MSW P rogram Coordinator , and by extension to the Chair of the Department of Social Work and the H ead of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy (SUAPP). This person has primary responsibility for the practicum component of the social work program which includes implementation of field processes and procedures, development of good field sites, and maintaining effective working relationships with placement s ites, field instructors, faculty , and students . The responsibilities of the Director of Field Placement are to: Master of Social Work/Field Manual 40 1. Develop policies, procedures, and competencies for the field courses : Foundatio n Field Placement I (SWRK 7051), Foundation Field Placement II (SWRK 7052), Concentration Field Placement I II (SWRK 7053) , Concentration Field Placement IV (SWRK 7054) , Integrative Field Seminar I (SWRK 7055), and Integrative Field Seminar II (SWRK 7056) ; 2. Develop field placements by negotiating wit h appropriate agencies in the community that can provide a well - rounded social work field experience for the student; 3. Work with the agency/institution administrators concerning the selection and approval of field inst ructors, and the maintenance of ongoing communication with agencies concerning the implementation of the field program ; 4. Provide orientation and other opportunities for field instructors to become familiar with the overall curriculum of the Department of Social Work, including trends and changes in course content, and to participate in the ongoing assessment and development of the overall field program; 5. Plan seminars and meetings of field instructors in order to develop the quality of teaching in the field and strengthen the performance of the field instructors as educators; 6. Arrange meeting s with interested student applicants to discuss the goals of the field practicum, the agencies/institutions available as placement sites, and policies and procedures for beginning placement; 7. Coordinate plannin g for the placement of students in agency/institution settings, and assign students to the designated field sites; 8. A ssign a faculty liaison to work with the field instructor and student in relation to the student's field performance; 9. In coopera tion with the field instructor and the faculty liaison performance in the field and assign an appropriate grade for his/her completion of the field placement ; 10. Provide an opportunity for students to evaluate their field experience , and i n coop eration with the faculty liaisons, evaluate and assess the agencies that participate in the field instruction program ; and 11. In cooperation with the coordinator of the MSW program , develop, and revise as needed, the policies and procedures for field practicu m. Similarly, maintain, and modify as necessary, the field manual. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 41 Responsibilities of the Faculty Liaison : The faculty liaison serves as a consultant to field instructors and ensures the educational integrity of the field experience for his/her respective students. The faculty liaison also serves as a mediator/problem solver when conflicts may arise between th e agency and/or the field instructor and the student. The responsibilities of the faculty liaison are to: 1. Advise students with regard to what they are learning in their field placements . This includes direct contact with the student during each semester in order to review progress and to evaluate the adequacy of the learning experience; 2. Re present the MSW program of the University of Memphis Department of Social Work to the administration, field instructors, and other significant staff of the agency/instit ution , and act as the liaison between the agency/institution and the Department of Social Work; 3. Consult with the field instructor in relation to learning opportunities available to s performance; 4. P erform a minimum of one site visit per semester to each agency/institution for which s/he serves as faculty liaison ; 5. Communicate with the field instructor during the course of the semester in order to serve as a mediator between the Department of Social Work and the performance, and to proactively solve problems that may arise; 6. the student's performance is considered marginal during the semester, the liaison arranges a meeting with the student and the field instructor to discuss the situation and to help the student and instructor to use the teaching/learning experience more eff ectively. If the difficulty cannot be resolved, the liaison refers the matter to the D irector of F ield P lacement ; and 7. Provide an evaluation of the field placement at the end of the semester and make recommendations about placement planning with the respec tive agency/institution for subsequent semesters . Responsibilities of the Field Instruction Agency : Agencies play a vital role in the education of social work students. It is through the agency/institution experience that the student comes to grips with the reality of working with people experiencing problems. Through this process, the student learns t o test his/her Master of Social Work/Field Manual 42 knowledge and skills. It is important that agencies create an atmosphere for learning and provide a means through which students can begin to identify with the values and objectives of the social work profession. In order to afford a well - rounded educational experience for students, the agency/institution (as represented by its administration) assumes responsibility for the following: 1. Contract with the Department of Social Work via the c linical a ffiliation a greement to work mutually with th e department in providing the student(s) with a good field experience of the social work profession; 2. Select qualified field instructors and allow time in their schedules for teaching responsibilities; 3. Provi de adequate physical space and facilities for the student to function effectively; 4. Provi de appropriate learning experiences, including orientation to the agency/institution and the community in which the agency operates, as well as direct experience with clients; 5. Demonstrat e a commitment to the values and ethics of the social work profession , including provision for confidentiality of records; 6. Commit to the education of social workers at the graduate level and work collaboratively with the Department of Social Work in developing the field instruction progr am; and 7. Discuss the progress of the student with the faculty liaison and/or Director of Field Placement and maintain close contact with the Department of Social Work should problems occur in regard to the student Responsibilities of the Field Instructor : The major function in field instruction is teaching through practice. The field instructor provides the support and experience through which students can develop, test, and demonstrate the degree of their integration of social work k nowledge, principles, and methods. In doing so, the field instructor assumes primary responsibility for the student's education in the placement setting. This involves locating appropriate assignments which enable the student to achieve the program 's educational objectives, sharing knowledge, providing regular feedback to students, writing formal evaluations and enabling the student to evaluate self. The role of field instructor requires a basic commitment to the teaching role and commitment to dev elopment of the profession of social work . In his/her role as educator, the field instructor will execute the following responsibilities: Master of Social Work/Field Manual 43 1. P rovide the Department of Social Work with information regarding her/his academic background and a current resume rel ative to acting as an instructor for social work students; 2. F amiliarize him/herself with the educational philosophy of the Department of Social Work and with the content of the social work curriculum which the student already has taken or currently is takin g. At times, the field instructor may be called upon to teach specific content material for students to fulfill a particular field assignment when this content has not yet been covered in the classroom; 3. A ttend an orientation , if new to the role, which wil l help the instructor become familiar with his/her responsibility in taking on this role, educational requirements of the field process, the design of the learning experience, what to do regarding early identification of problems, and the curriculum of the Department of Social Work ; 4. A ttend training sessions at the u n iversity throughout the year. Field instructors who do not attend the orientation, or who habitually miss training sessions, may be asked to discontinue the responsibility of field instruction ; 5. C onduct a n orientation for the student to help her/him prepare adequately for her/his field practice. This orientation includes, but is not limited to: a. Policies and procedures of the agency/institution; b. Composition of the community and the clientele served; c. The role of the agency/institution in the community; its relation to the community resources most often used; d. Societal factors that may impact the clientele of the agency/institution; e. Content regarding cultural diversity and discrimination that may affect the agency/institution's clientele; f. Responsibilities of the student to the client, as well as to the agency/institution; g. Mutual roles of the field instructor and the student in the field setting; h. The practical models most frequently employed for di rect practice and measures used for evaluation of practice; and i. Codes of conduct and office rules e.g. , dress code s, punctuality, absenteeism . 6. A rrange a schedule that makes time available for weekly supervision meetings . This includes a weekly conference with each student of at least one (1) hour and sufficient time to prepare for supervision ; Master of Social Work/Field Manual 44 7. N egotiate and mutually develop a learning agreement with the student early in the course of the placement that guides the learni ng experience and serves as a point of reference for subsequent evaluations . Said learning agreement is to be based in the competencies on which the student will be evaluated at the end of each semester ; 8. M onitor the time and activities of the stud ent while in placement and sign off on the logs the student submits in reporting on her/his time and activities; 9. M ake available to the student relevant materials and a rrange time for conferences with the faculty liaison and/or the D irector of Fi eld P lacement . In these meetings, the field instructor should be prepared to discuss the student's progress, learning difficulties, and performance in the respective placement; 10. C onsult placement, incl uding problems that need attention ; and 11. P repare an evaluation of the student's performance near the end of each semester and discuss this with the student in a mutual process. The field instructor will submit this evaluation and other statistical reports to the Director of Field Placement according to designated timelines and/or deadlines. If the student objects to anything in the evaluation, s/he has the right to submit those o bjections to the Director of Field Placement (with copies being submitted to the faculty liaison and the field instructor as well) . Responsibilities of the Student in Field Placement : The student is an adult learner preparing for a professional career. As such, s/he is expected to exhibit a serious commitment to the learning process, a capacity for self - evaluation, willingness to change one's ways of thinking, feeling, and acting, and openness to respond to suggestions and directions offered by the profe ssionals who are assisting in the field process. Although students learn in different ways and at varying rates, all students are expected to take responsibility for their own learning. In addition, by accepting placement at an agency/institution, the st udent agrees to adhere to the mission of the agency/institution and to serve the clientele of the agency/institution in the most professional manner possible. The following are student responsibilities deemed appropriate to field placement, and while not c onclusive, are basic for carrying out active partici pation in the learning process: 1. The student is considered an adult learner. In this role , s/he is to take responsibility for the learning process in which s/he is engaged. The field placement assignment is to be treated as though it were an employment experience i.e. , the student is to be Master of Social Work/Field Manual 45 there as assigned, be on time, dress appropriately, respect the agency/institution staff, mission, policies and procedures, etc.; 2. The required number of hours for a scheduled field day is 8 hours but can vary according to the schedule of the assigned agency/institution. In no instance should a student plan for less than four (4) hours at - a - time at the field site. The exceptions to this are illness of the student , or important personal matters, that require one to leave the site unexpectedly . Such absences should not happen regularly, and should become matter for corrective action if this privilege is abused; 3. Appropriate use of fie ld placement hours includes preparation done for contact with the client(s), summaries done for agency/institution purposes, staff conferences, supervisory sessions, other meetings that are part of the learning experience, travel time to and from client co ntacts, and work on related seminar assignments; 4. Students can follow the calendar of the university regarding holidays, etc. However, it is vitally important that students coordinate any planned absences with the field instructor and prepare the client (s) sufficiently regarding these breaks. Also, the student remains responsible for making up these hours at some other time such that s/he completes the required number of hours for each semester of the placement; 5. Students are allowed to serve in placement du ring holidays and breaks in the academic schedule if they and the field instructor work out such an agreement ; 6. The student is responsible for securing membership in the National Association of Social Workers (NASW). S/he also is responsible for becoming f amiliar with the NASW Code of Ethics and expected to act in a manner consistent with that code in the practicum. The student is asked to sign an agreement form early in the semester indicating his/her willingness to abide by the Code of Ethics; 7. The studen t is responsible for procuring liability insurance (with minimum coverage of 1,000,000/ 5 ,000,000) prior to beginning the placement and providing the Director of Field Placement with a copy of the Certificate of Coverage ; 8. The student will participate with the field instructor in the process of developing a learning agreement that outlines the activities in which s/he is to be engaged while in placement. Said learning agreement is to be based in the competencies on which the student will be evaluated at the end of each semester; 9. The student is to regularly (every 1 - 2 weeks) submit reports that document the time and activities in which s/he has been engaged while in placement for the respective period of time; 10. The student is to dress appropriately as a represe ntative of the profession. This code of dress may differ from one agency to the next or from one task to another, but the Master of Social Work/Field Manual 46 student should discuss these requirements with her/his field instructor and comply with the standards of the agency; 11. Students in the foundation and concentration year s of placement must attend the concomitant seminar class and complete all assignments pertaining to the seminar. The student assumes responsibility for all commitments made with clients, colleagues, and other significant pe ople in relation to service provision. The student must inform the instructor/supervisor when an emergency precludes the fulfillment of these commitments; 12. Using experiences from their respective placements, students are to maintain an online journal whic h reflects their reactions to issues raised in their work with clients, agency professionals, and peers; 13. Within the student/instructor relationship, it is appropriate for the student to look to the field instructor for advancement of knowledge, skills, an d techniques, and in the development of self - supervisory sessions , including submitting issues and concerns in writing prior to the meeting in order that the supervision time can be used opti mally ; 14. The student should freely communicate his/her educational needs and interests to the field instructor. This includes talking with the field instructor about too much or not enough work, interest in learning about and being involved in other se rvices that the agency placement offers, and any or all areas of the field learning experience; 15. The student is to meet at least once - a - week with the field instructor in order to discuss his/her learning in the placement. This is to provide a forum in whic h s/he can discuss performance and professional growth issues, questions about the that is served; 16. The student is to communicate with the faculty liaison during the seme ster in order to keep him/her informed of progress in the field placement; 17. The student is to take the initiative, through the usual lines of communication, to protest the abuse of any person requesting or receiving services from a given agency/institution . Similarly, s/he is to act in a manner commensurate with the professional c ode of e thics if individuals or groups within the community abuse the rights of people seeking services and/or assistance; 18. The student is responsible for preparing clients appropr iately for termination. S/he must have work assignments up to date before leaving the agency/institution and must inform the field instructor of these activities, as well as those matters that remain pending with respect to client service; and Master of Social Work/Field Manual 47 19. The student is to complete and submit a n evaluation of his/her competence to the Director of Field Placement at the end of each year of placement . Master of Social Work/Field Manual 48 Appendix Section Master of Social Work/Field Manual 49 Appendix A: Student Information / Forms A - 1: Overview of Field Hour Requirements A - 2: Checklist for First Semester of Field Placement A - 3 : Field Application for 1 st Year Placement A - 4 : Letter of Assignment for 1 st Year Placement A - 5 : 1 st Year Placement Interview A - 6 : NASW Membership and Liability Coverage A - 7 : Agreement to Abide by NASW Code of Ethics A - 8 : Release of Liability and Hold Harmless Agreement A - 9: Letter of Assignment for 2 nd Year Placement A - 10: nd Year Placement Interview Master of Social Work/Field Manual 50 Appendix A - 1 Overview of Hour Requirements for Field at UoM SWRK 7051 Foundation Field Placement I 160 hours SWRK 7052 Foundation Field Placement II 240 hours SWRK 7053 Advanced Field Placement I II 280 hours (Also referred to as Concentration Field Placement I II ) SWRK 7054 Advanced Field Place ment IV 280 hours (Also referred to as Concentration Field Placement IV ) _________ Total number of field hours required for the MSW program 960 hours Student will be required to attend seminar classes as part of field hours for SWRK 7051, 7052 , 7055, and 7056 . Master of Social Work/Field Manual 51 Overview of Hour Requirements for Advanced Standing Field at UoM SWRK 7050 Advanced Standing Field 10 hours SWRK 7053 Advanced Field Placement I II 280 hours (Also referred to as Concentration Field Placement II I) SWRK 7054 Advanced Field Placement IV 280 hours (Also referred to as Concentration Field Placement IV ) _________ Total number of field hours required for the MSW p rogram 570 hours Student will be required to attend seminar classes as part of field hours for SWRK 7050,7055, and 7056 . Master of Social Work/Field Manual 52 Appendix A - 2 Checklist Regarding Foundation Year Field Placement at UoM ___ Student must complete field application and submit to Director of Field Placement; ___ Student will receive e - mail from Director of Field Placement indicating agency ___ Student will schedule interview with agency representative; ___ Following the interview, both student and agency representative will send Director of Field Placement forms indicating the results of interview; ___ Following the interview, it will be the necessary f or beginning placement on time (e.g., some agencies will require formal orientation; some will require a background check; some may require a physical exam and/or TB test; etc.); ___ Also, in order to begin field placement on time, student must become a s tudent member of the National Association of Social Workers (NASW). Membership can be purchased at - join/join.aspx . (A listing of other membership benefits is available at ); ___ Once student has secured membership, s/he must purchase liability insurance coverag e (1,000,000/5 ,000,000) via the NASW Assurance Trust at . Once purchased, the student will provide Director of Field Placement a copy of the Certificate of Coverage; ___ In doing placement, student is expected to learn and abide by policies and procedures of the agency to which s/he is assigned. Student also is required to abide by the NASW Code of Ethics and, at first seminar class, will be asked to sign form indicating her/his agreement to do so. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 53 Appendix A - 3 Please carefully read the information below prior to completing the attached form. MSW Field Placement Field placement is an important component of the Master of Social Work program and is internship placement provides opportunities for the student to apply concepts and skills learned in the classroom in a real - world work setting and to build a work history of relevant experience that will assist the student in beginning her/his social work career. At the University of Memphis, the field internship consists of four courses: Two courses for the foundation (generalist) le vel , SWRK 7051 and 7052; and four courses for the advanced (conc entration) level, SWRK 7053, 7054 , 7055, 7056 . For the foundation placement (SWRK 7051 and 7052), students are assigned to an agency in the community by the MSW Director of Field Placement. For the concentration placement (SWRK 7053 and 7054), students have more voice in selecting the agency to which they are assigned, but the assignment ultimately is made by the MSW Director of Field Placement. Students who want to do field placement at their place of employment, must consult with the MSW Director of Field Placement. Several provisions pertain to su ch a request: In such situations, the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) mandates that the student have different responsibilities, a different supervisor, and different hours, than for his/her regular job position; The work of the agency and the qual ifications of the prospective field instructor must meet the requirements of the D epartment of Social Work; The student can only do one of her/his placements at the place of employment i.e. , either the foundation year or the advanced year, but not both; and In deciding which year of placement they want to do at their place of employment, students should remember that, during the second year (the advanced year), they will have to display competence in working with children and families. If this is not fea sible at the respective agency, they should opt for doing their first year (the foundation year) at their place of employment. Each field course will be worth 3 credit hours, but the actual field hours in the agency will vary from one semester to the next. Basically, the student will be engaged in field 16 hours per week during the first year of placement (SWRK 7051 and 7052) and 20 hours per week d uring the second year (SWRK 7055 and 7056 ). Master of Social Work/Field Manual 54 Grades for field placement will be assigned by the MSW Dire ctor of Field Placement but will be based largely on the evaluation of the field instructor at the agency to which the student is assigned for placement. Also, as part of the field course, students will meet in small groups for several seminars per semeste r (at the university or another designated site) as well as participating in online communication (e.g. , electronic journals, discussion communication is intended to f oster the learning experience involved in doing field Master of Social Work/Field Manual 55 THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL WORK SCHOOL OF URBAN AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC POLICY APPLICATION FOR MSW FIELD PLACEMENT First Year (Foundation) SWRK 7051 / SWRK 7052 PERSONAL DEMOGRAPHICS: Name: _______________________________________________________________________ (Last) (First) (Middle) Date of Birth: _____________ University ID Number: ________ ____________ Current Address: Street or P.O. Box: ___________________________________________ City, State, Zip code: _________________________________________ Current Telephone: ___________________ Cell (if different): ____________________ E - mail a ddress: Campus: ________________ Other: _______________________ Permanent Address (if different):__________________________________________________ ____________________________________________________ Permanent Telephone (if different): ______________________________ (Information regarding your permanent address and phone number is important in case the school has a need to contact you during holidays and summer.) Master of Social Work/Field Manual 56 EMPLOYMENT, SOCIAL SERVICE and VOLUN TEER BACKGROUND: 1. List volunteer experiences you have had in social service agencies or other relevant areas: _________________________________________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________ ____________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________ _______ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ ______ ________________________________________________ 2. List all employment you have had at a human service agency or institution: _________________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________ ___________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ ___________________________________________________________ ______________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________ _________ ___________________________________________________ 3. Are you currently employed? Yes ________ No ________ If so, do you plan to continue working during the foundation year of your field placement? Yes ________ No ________ If yes, for how many hours/week? ______________________ What hours will you be working? ________________________ 4. Please list all other employment history: _________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________ _______________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________________________ __________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ 5. Did you previously receive stipend money through the DCS stipend program during your Bachelors programming? Yes_____ No______ If yes, w hat area did you work in while employed with DCS? What were your job duties? _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________ ________________________________________________________________ And what were your field duties during the DCS stipend position?__________________________________________________________________________ ___________________________________________________ _____________________________ Master of Social Work/Field Manual 57 OTHER RELATIVE INFORMATION: 1. What factors or considerations have gone into your decision to enter the social work profession / the MSW program? (Please do not feel it necessary to reveal anything that you would prefer remain private.) ______________________________________________ ___________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ ___________________________________________________________ ______________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________ _________ _________________________________________________________ 2. What do you believe will be your greatest strengths as a social worker? _________________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________ __________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ ____________________________________________ _____________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________ 3. Discuss how you perceive yourself as a learner, describing the kinds of learning environments with which you are most comfortable and the worst type of learning environment you can imagine for yourself. _______________________________________________ __________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ ____________________________________________________________ _____________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ ____________________________________________________________ 4. What are your career goals after graduation? _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________ _________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________ ____________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ Master of Social Work/Field Manual 58 5. Please list your pre ferences for the type of agency at which you would like to do your field placement during the foundation year of your MSW program. Please note: Your preferences will be given due consideration in determining your placement, but it is not guaranteed that y ou will be assigned to any of the preferences you select. Please select the type of social work in which you would like to engage in your first year of placement: Child welfare, Community organization, Corrections; Developmental disabilities, Domestic vio lence, Geriatrics, Health/Medical, HIV - AIDS, Hospice care, Mental health, Public housing, School social work, Substance abuse, Youth and adolescents, Other: First Choice: __________________________________________________ Second Choice: _________________ ______________________________ Third Choice: _________________________________________________ Fourth Choice: ________________________________________________ Please use the following lines to explain your reasons for having selected these preferences. If you _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ ____________________________________________________ _____________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ 6. Is there a particular problem area that you would rather not work with? Please identify and briefly describe why not. (Please do not feel that it is necessary to reveal anyt hing that you would prefer remain private.) _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _____________ ____________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________ __________________________________ Master of Social Work/Field Manual 59 7. Are you in need of a placement that has provision for evening or weekend hours or any other special considerations? Yes _________ No ________ If so, what are they? _________________________________________________ ________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________ ___________________ __________________________________________________________________ If you need an evening placement, what is the earliest you would be available each day to begin placement? __________________ How late could you stay? _______________ 8. What foreign languages can you speak? _________________________ 9. Do you know American Sign Language? Yes _______ No _______ 10. Do you know how to work on a computer? Yes ______ No _______ Please identify the software with which you are familiar: ( e.g., WordPerfect, Microsoft Windows, Word, Excel, and PowerPoint) _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________ ______________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ ___________________________________________________________________________ _______ 12. Will you have a car available for use for field placement? Yes _______ No _______ 13. What geographical considerations are important to you? _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________ ________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________ ___________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ ____________________________________________________________ Master of Social Work/Field Manual 60 14. Have you ever been convicted of a felony, or do you have an y legal charges pending at this time? Yes ___________ No __________ If so, please explain: ____________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ ______________________ ___________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ ___________________________________ ______________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ ____________________________________________________________ 15. Are you a member of NASW? Yes ________ No ________ 16. Have yo u purchased liability insurance to cover you while doing Field Practice? Yes ________ No ________ Please making any comments or provide information that will assist faculty in assigning you to the best possible placement for you. ________________________ _________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _____________________________________ ____________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________ __________ ATTESTATION: This application form is intended to convey to the fieldwork faculty information that will be helpful in determining fieldwork assignments. By signing below you are indicating that the information you have provided is complete and accurate and has been completed to the best of your ability. While the experiences and interests of the applicants are taken into consideration in assigning a placement, educational needs take precedence over all other factors involved in the assignme nt of students to fieldwork agencies. Therefore fieldwork faculty not the student, nor the agency are responsible for making the fieldwork assignment. The information you have provided here will be shared with the agency field instructor. By signing b elow you are giving permission for the information on this application to be shared with the agency field instructor or field coordinator. Signed: ______________________________________________________ Student Date Master of Social Work/Field Manual 61 Appendix A - 4 Foundation Year Letter of Assignment To: _____________________________ From: Director of Graduate Field Placement Date: ___________________________ Re: Potential Field Placement Site _________________________, I have received your application to begin field placement in the coming semester. In order to begin to arrange for that position, I am asking you to please contact ___________________________ at ______________________________ to arrange a time when you can present for an interview for the placem ent. The phone number to do so is ___________________. Please treat this process as you would a job interview i.e. , make your best impression. In preparing for the interview, I suggest you think about what kinds of questions you want to ask of the p erson doing the interview. You may want to ask about concerns such as the following: Is there a dress code? Will you need a vehicle and, if so, where will you park? Will the agency need to complete a background check? Will you be required to get a physi cal exam and/or TB test before you can start? Is there an orientation process you must complete? If so, when would it be? What is the actual day that you can start? Several of those questions are intended to help make sure that you can start your placeme nt as soon as you are cleared to do so once the semester begins. Please remember that you cannot start your placement until you have joined NASW and purchased your liability insurance coverage. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 62 Appendix A - 5 Student Response to Interview for Foundation Year Placement To: Director of Graduate Field Placement Department of Social Work From: ___________________________ Re: Field Placement Interview I met today with ___________________________ at ______________________________ to discuss the possibility of me doing a field placement at the respective agency. I understand that I am to begin the placement as of the following date: _________________, and that my field instructor will be ____________________________. I understand that, on the first day, I am to report to the office located at _____________________________. In order that there will be no delay in me starting on that date, I understand that I must take care of the following matters beforehand: _____________________ _________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ___________________________________________ ___________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________ _____________ ______________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________ ____________________ (Signature) (Date) Please return this notice to Director of Graduate Field Pla cement By fax at: 678 - 2981, or By mail at: The University of Memphis, 226 McCord Hall, Memphis, TN 38152 Master of Social Work/Field Manual 63 Appendix A - 6 Websites for NASW NASW main website (including membership): NASW membership: - join/join.aspx NASW advocacy website: NASW Code of Ethics: Liability Insurance Coverage In order to begin field placement, the student must purchase liability insurance coverage. The minimum coverage to be purchased is the 1,000,000/5 ,000,000 option. The student must provide a copy of his/her certificate of coverage to the director of field placement verifying that the insurance is in place before the student can engage in any field activities. Since t he student also is required to join NASW, the professional organization for social workers, it likely is most cost effective for the student to purchase the liability insurance through the company contracted with NASW to provide such coverage. That compan y is: The NASW has now formed their own malpractice insurance group called the NASW Risk Retention Group or RRG. To obtain liability insurance, please follow the following steps: 1. Purchase student membership from NASW - 2. Go to 3. Select apply online and follow the directions 4. Please call 1 - 855 - 385 - 2160 if you have questions or encounter difficulty with the online process The NASW offers only one option for students, the 1,000,000/5,000,000 option and it costs $15 for a one year membership. This is much cheaper than the previous rate. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 64 Appendix A - 7 The University of Memphis Department of Social Work School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy Field Placement Code of Conduct Student who engage in field placement through the Department of Social Work are expected to adhere to the standards of ethics maintained by the profession more specifically, those advanced by t he National Association of Social Workers (NASW). It is your responsibility to review and be familiar with the provisions of this code. What follows are some of the major standards for practice as delineated by NASW. If at any time during your field p lacement you find yourself in a situation in which you have questions or concerns about a potential ethical dilemma, please speak with your field instructor, faculty liaison, or the director of field placement. Commitment to Clients (1.01) The social work - being of the client. Self - determination (1.02) The social worker is to respect and promote the right of the client(s) to self - determination and to assist clients in their efforts to identify and clarify g oals. Competence (1.04) The social worker is to provide services, and represent him/herself as competent, only within the boundaries of his/her education. It is important to inform your client(s) that you are a student. Conflicts of Interest (1.06) a) The social worker is to be alert to and avoid conflicts of interest that could interfere with the exercise of professional discretion and impartial judgment. b) The social worker is to be careful not to take unfair advantage of any professional relationship. c) The social worker is to be careful not to engage in dual or multiple relationships with clients or former clients in which there are risks of exploitation or potential harm to the client. Privacy and Confidentiality (1.07) The social worker is to protect the confidentiality of all information obtained in the course of professional service, except for compelling professional reasons. Such compelling reasons would include when there is a serious suicide threat or attempt, when threats against others occur, or w hen legal requirements to report abuse of any nature are met. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 65 Sexual relationships (1.09) The social worker is not to engage in sexual activities or sexual conduct, under any circumstances, with current or former clients, no matter whether such conduct is consensual or forced. Physical contact (1.10) The social worker is not to engage in any kind of physical contact (such as cradling or caressing) with the client(s) when there is a possibility of psychological harm to the client(s) as a result of the cont act. Impairment (4.05) The social worker whose personal problems, psychosocial distress, legal problems, substance abuse, or mental health difficulties interfere with his/her ability to function responsibly are expected to take appropriate remedial action . Derogatory language (1.12) The social worker is not to use derogatory language in his/her written or verbal communications to or about clients. The social worker is to use accurate and respectful language in all communications. Dishonesty, Fraud, and Deception (4.04) The social worker is not to participate in, condone, or be associated with dishonesty, fraud, or deception. Statement of understanding I understand that, as a field student through the Department of Social Work, I am to adhere to the values, ethics, and standards of my profession. By my signature below, I affirm that I have received a copy of, and read, the NASW Code of Ethics, and that I agree to abide by, and serve in my field placement, within the standards there outlined. __________________________________ ______________________ (Signature) (Date) Master of Social Work/Field Manual 66 Appendix A - 8 Release of Liability and Hold Harmless Agreement I, ______________________________, have decided to participate in the University of Department of Social Work Field Placement Program. I hereby acknowledge that participating in field placement is entirely voluntary. I understand that the Depart ment of Social Work Field Placement Program involves certain risks, hazards and conditions that may be dangerous to life, limb and property and that can arise in an incalculable variety of unforeseen or foreseeable ways which may include: bodily injury, lo ss of limb, death or property damage. I am voluntarily participating in the field placement program with knowledge of the dangers involved. I have reached the age of majority, and I am competent to make this decision for myself, or, if I am a minor, I ha ve obtained the permission of a parent or legal guardian. I am not suffering from any medical condition, impairment, or disease that would prevent my safe participation in any of the activities associated with the field placement program. I have disclose d any and all of my medical conditions to the administrators of the field placement program. I will use care for my own safety and well - being. I have not been advised by a physician or any other health care provider to limit my participation in activitie s such as the field placement program. I assume responsibility for my participation in the field placement program and injury while participating in the field placement program. In consideration of the right to participate in the University of Memphis De partment of Social Work Field Placement Program, I agree to assume the risks involved and I acknowledge that such risks may include, but not be limited to, bodily injury and/or death and/or property damage, and hereby collectively and individually release and agree to hold harmless the University of Memphis, its Board of Regents, officers, employees, agents, damages of any kind, known or unknown, existing or arising i n the future resulting from or related to my participation in the field placement program. This release will also prevent my family from suing Releasees and binds my spouse, if I have one, my estate, siblings, parents, heirs, personal representatives and assigns. The undersigned has read and understands this Release and Hold Harmless Agreement in its entirety and voluntarily signs same, without reliance on any representations, statements or inducements, express or implied, made by any party whomsoever. _________________________ _____ ____________________________________ Name Signature _____________________________ Date Master of Social Work/Field Manual 67 Appendix A - 9 Letter of Assignment for Concentration Year MSW Placement To: ____ ___________________________ ___ From: Director of Graduate Field Placement Date: ___ ___________________ ____ Re: 2 nd Year Placement Site I am writing today to inform you of your assignment for your second year of field placement. In response to the interviews you have done over the past few weeks, I am assigning you to placement at ___ _______________________________________ __. In order to arrange for your internship there, I am asking you to please contact _____ _______________ _____________ at ___ _______________________ __ as soon as possible to confi rm that you will be doing placement there and to find out what you need to do so as to be ready to begin your placement as soon as school begins in the fall. If you have not already done so, you might want to inquire, at least, about the following concer ns as appropriate to your specific site: Is there a dress code? Will you need a vehicle and, if so, where will you park? Does the agency reimburse mileage expenses? Will you need an ID badge? If so, when and how will you secure that? Will the agency need to complete a background check? Will you be required to get a physical exam and/or TB test before you can start? Is there an orientation process you must complete? If so, when would it be? o If the orientation is more than one day, you might want to inquire about possibly doing it before school begins to avoid conflict with your classes. What is the actual date and time that you are to start? Where and to whom will you report on your first day? What kind of schedule will work for both you and the agency such that you will be able to get your hours in (keeping in mind that Field III and IV require that you do 280 hours each semester (based on a plan of doing 20 hours/week for 14 - weeks))? Does the agency offer a stipend? Also, please remember that you cannot s tart your placement until you have renewed your membership in NASW, renewed your liability insurance coverage, and provided the Director of Field Placement with a copy of your Certificate of Coverage. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 68 Appendix A - 10 Student Confirmation Regarding Concentrat ion Year Field Placement To: Director of Graduate Field Placement From: _____________________________ Re: 2 nd Year Field Assignment In response to your letter of assignment, I have contacted ___________________________ at ______________________________ t o confirm that I will be doing my second year of MSW field placement at that agency. I understand that I am to begin the placement at the following date and time: __________________________________________ and that on the first day I am to report to th e office located at _____________________________________________. I also understand that my field instructor will be ________________________________________. In order that there will be no delay in me starting on that date, I understand that I must tak e care of the following procedural matters before the fall semester begins: ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ________________________ ______________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________ ________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________ _____________________ (Signature) (Date) Please return this notice to Director of Graduate Field Placement By fax at: 678 - 2981, or By mail at: The University of Memphis, 226 McCord Hall, Memphis, TN 38152 Master of Social Work/Field Manual 69 Appendix B: Instructor / Liaison Forms B - 1: B - 2: 1 st Year Placement Interview B - 3: for 2 nd Year Placement B - 4 : F aculty Liaison Consult Form Master of Social Work/Field Manual 70 Appendix B - 1 Field Instructor Information Form Demographics: Instructor name: ______________________________ Agency name: ________________________________ Phone: _________________ Agency address: __________________________________________________________ E - mail address: ____________________________ ___ Fax: ___________________ Job title: _____________________________________ Full - time ___ Part - time ___ Years of service with agency: ______ Previous field instruction experience? _____ Areas of specialization: ____________________________________ ________________ Licensed or certified? Yes ___ No ___ Pending ___ Level of licensure / certification and number: _____________________________ Educational Background: Name of graduate school: ____________________________________ Location: _______ __________________________________________ Area(s) of study: ___________________________________________ Degree: ___________________________ Year of graduation: ________________ (If you attended more than one graduate school, please list others attended on the back of this page). ** ** ** ** ** Name of undergraduate school: _____________________________________ Location: ___________________________________ Major: _________________________ Minor: ________________________ Degree: ________________ ________ Year of graduation: ______________ Master of Social Work/Field Manual 71 Professional Work Experience: (Please begin with position prior to current position) Agency name: ________________________________ Agency address: ______________________________________________________ Job ti tle: _____________________________ Full - time ___ Part - time ___ Length of time with agency: _________ Social work field instruction? ________ ** ** ** ** ** Agency name: _______________________________ Agency address: ______________________________ ________________________ Job title: ____________________________ Full - time ___ Part - time ___ Length of time with agency: _________ Social work field instruction? ________ Field instructor responsibilities: Your signature below affirms your intention to provide direct supervision for the social work student(s) placed with your agency, and to fulfill the following: Attend program orientation and training sessions offered by the faculty of the Department of Social Work; Be knowledgeable of goals and objectives of the field placement experience and its role in the Master of Social Work curriculum ; Select appropriate assignments and, with the student, create a field placement contract which reflects the learning opportunit ies and expectations; Provide, for the student, an orientation to your agency and its policies and procedures; Provide a minimum of one hour per week of formal supervision in order to provide the student with feedback and to act as a role model to help t he student better understand the role of the professional social worker ; instances where a non - social worker is provi ding the day - to - day instruction; Complete and submit to the faculty liaison and/or director of field placement materials related to the placement e.g., learning contract, time sheets, evaluations; Master of Social Work/Field Manual 72 Participate with the student, the faculty liaison, and/or the director of field placement in evaluating the student Notify the faculty liaison and/or director of field placement of any questions or potential problems as they become evident. Signatures: _______________________________________ _________________ (Field instructor) (Date) _______________________________________ _________________ (Non - Social Work supervisor if applicable) (Date) Master of Social Work/Field Manual 73 Appendix B - 2 Field Instructor Response to Interview for Foundation Year Placement To: Director of Graduate Field Placement Department of Social Work From: ___________________________ Agency: _________________________ Re: Field Placement Interview I have met with ___________________________ regarding the possibility of him/her engaging in field placement at this agency next semester. (Please check the correct statement below): _____ I think we can move forward on having this student placed with our agency. We have mutually agreed on the date of ____________________ for him/her to begin the placement. _____ I would like to talk further with you before we move forward on this placement. Please call me at _______________, or e - mail me at __________________________. ______________________________________ ___________________ (Signatu re) (Date) Please return this notice to Director of Graduate Field Placement By fax at: 678 - 2981, or By mail at: The University of Memphis, 226 McCord Hall, Memphis, TN 38152 Master of Social Work/Field Manual 74 Appendix B - 3 Field Instructor Confirmation of Internship Arrangements for 2 nd Year Placement To: Director of MSW Field Placement Department of Social Work Re: Field Placement Intern From: ___________________________ Agency: _________________________ I have met with _____________________ to confirm her/him engaging in field placement at this agency for the next academic year. We have discussed the placement and everything that the student will need to do i n order to be ready to start placement as soon as school begins in the fall. We have mutually agreed that the student is to begin the placement as of the following date and time: ___________________________, and that her/his field instructor will be _____ _________________________. I have instructed the student to report to the office located at _____________________________ on the first day of placement. In order that there will be no delay in the student starting on that date, s/he must take care of the following matters beforehand (e.g. background check, physical exam and/or TB test, orientation, etc): ______________________________________________________________________________ ___________________________________________________________________________ ___ ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ___________________ ___________________________________________________________ _________________________________ ___________________ (Signature) (Date) Please return this notice to the Director of Graduate Field Placement By fax at: 678 - 2981, or By mail at: The University of Memphis, 226 McCord Hall, Memphis, TN 38152 Master of Social Work/Field Manual 75 Appendix B - 4 FIELD CONSULTATION REPORT FORM Student: ____________________________ Date of Visit: ______________________ Agency: ____________________________ Field Instructor: __________________________ Present for meeting: ___________________________________________________________ Purpose of field consultation visit: _____ regular semester visit _____ requested by student _____ requested by field i nstructor _____ other (please specify) _________________ Is the learning contract completed for the semester? _____ yes _____ no If no, expected date of completion: ______________ Student is making adequate progress: _____ yes _____ no Stude nt is receiving adequate assignments: _____ yes _____ no Student is having regular supervisory conferences: _____ yes _____ no ________________________________________________ ______________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ Summary of any additional issues discussed: _______________________ _______________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ Recommendations: ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ___________________ ___________________ ____________________________ (Signature) (Date) Master of Social Work/Field Manual 76 Appendix C C - 1: Foundation Year Learning Plan C - 2: Advanced Year Learning Plan s C - 3: Time Log Form Master of Social Work/Field Manual 77 Learning Plan for MSW Field Placement Foundation Year Practice Behaviors ame: Agency: At the end of this academic year, the student is to be evaluated in regard to several measures of competence. Those measures pertaining to field placement are listed in several categories below. In the box below each section, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to develop and demonstrate these competencies. SAMPLE: SEJ - F2 Engage in practices that advance social and economic justice. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Student will accompany at least five clients to court and help them secure Orders of Protection Student will craft an informed letter to the local newspaper advocating for increased attention to the needs of homeless women and children Student will conduc t a 6 - week training module on economic literacy for residents of Master of Social Work/Field Manual 78 Core Competencies 1) Ethical and Professional Conduct: To identify as a professional social worker and conduct oneself accordingly . Social workers serve as representatives of the profession, its mission and core values. Identifying as a professional social worker involves knowing the history of social work, ways of enhancing the profession, and the importance of professional conduct and gro wth. PC - F1 Demonstrate an ability to make ethical decisions by applying the standards of the NASW Code of Ethics, relevant laws and regulations, models for ethical decision - making and additional codes of ethics as appropriate to context. In the box below , please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. PC - F2 Use reflection and self - regulation to manage personal values and maintain professionalism in practice situations. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. PC - F3 Demonstrate professional demeanor in behavior; appearance; and oral, written, and electronic communication. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior . Master of Social Work/Field Manual 79 PC - F4 Use technology ethically and appropriately to facilitate practice outcomes. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. PC - F5 Use supervision and consultation to guide professional judgment and behavior In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 80 2) Diversity: Engage Diversity and Difference in Practice Engaging diversity and difference in practice involves understanding how the intersectionality of age, class, color, culture, disability ethnicity, gender, gender identity and expression, immigration status, political ideology, race, religion, sex, and sexual orientation shape human experience and are critical to identity formation. Social workers appreciate that, as a consequence of difference, a p experiences may include oppression, poverty, marginalization, and alienation as well as privilege, power, and acclaim. Div - F1 Demonstrate an ability to apply and communicate understanding of the importance of diversity and difference in shap ing life experiences in practice at the micro, mezzo, and macro levels. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Div - F2 Present as a learner and engage clients and constituencies as experts of their own experiences. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Div - F3 Demonstrate the ability to apply self - awareness and self - regulation to manage the influence of personal biases and values in working with diverse clients and constituencies. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 81 3) Social & Economic Justice: Advance human rights and social and economic justice. Social workers recognize that each person has basic human rights; recognize the global interconnections of oppression; are knowledgeable about theories of justice and strategies to promote human and civil rights; and incorporate social justice practices in organizations, institutions, and society to ensure that these basic human rights are distributed equitably and without prejudice. SEJ - F1 Demonstrate the ability to apply an understanding of social, economic, and environmental justice to advocate for human rights at th e individual and system levels. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. SEJ - F2 Engage in practices that advance social, economic, and environmental justice. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 82 4) Research: Engage in research - informed practice and practice - informed research. Social workers use practice experience to inform research, employ evidence - based interventions, evaluate their own practice, and use research findings to improve practice, policy, and social service delivery. Social workers comprehend quantitative and qualitative research and understand scientific and ethical approaches to building knowledge. Rsch - F1 Use practice experience and theory to inform scientific inquiry and res earch. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Rsch - F2 Apply critical thinking to engage in analysis of quantitative and qualitative research methods and research finding. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demon strate this practice behavior. Rsch - F3 Use and translate research evidence to inform and improve practice, policy, and service delivery. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 83 5) Policy: Engage in policy practice to advance social and economic well - being and to deliver effective social work services. Social workers understand that policy affects service delivery, and they actively engage in policy practice. Social workers know the history and current structures of social policies and services; the role of policy in service del ivery; and the role of practice in policy development. Plcy - F1 Identify social policy at the local, state, and federal level that impacts well - being, service delivery, and access to social services. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Plcy - F2 Demonstrate the ability to assess how social welfare and economic policies impact the delivery of and access to social services. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Plcy - F3 Demonstrate the ability to apply critical thinking to analyze, formulate, and advocate for policies that advance human rights and social, economic, and environmental justice. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 84 6) Engage: Engage individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers use a theory - informed knowledge base to understand the dynamic, interactive, and reciprocal processes of engagement with diverse individuals, families, groups, organizations and communities. Engg - F1 Demonstrate the ability to apply knowledge of human behavior and the social environment, person - in - environment, and oth er multidisciplinary theoretical frameworks to engage with clients and constituencies. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice beha vior. Engg - F2 Demonstrate the ability to use empathy, reflection, and interpersonal skills to effectively engage diverse clients and constituencies. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 85 7) Assess: Assess individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers have a theory - informed knowledge base so as to be able to assess individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. They understand how to analyze policies and services that affect the well - being of individuals, families, groups, organizations, and co mmunities. Asss - F1 Collect and organize data, and apply critical thinking to interpret information from clients and constituencies. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Asss - F2 Apply knowledge of human behavior and the social environment, person - in - environment, and other multidisciplinary theoretical frameworks in the analysis of assessment data from clients and constituencies. In the box below, please indicate activities in which th e student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Asss - F3 Develop mutually agreed - on intervention goals and objectives based on the critical assessment of strengths, needs, and challenges within clients and constituencies. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in or der that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Asss - F4 Select appropriate intervention strategies based on the assessment, research knowledge, and values and preferences of clients and constituencies. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 86 8) Intervene: Intervene with individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers use a theory - and research - informed knowledge base to identify, analyze, and implement evidence - based interventions designed to achieve client goals for diverse individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities . Social workers develop leadership skills for implementation of policies and services that promote social and economic justice and serve the well - being of individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Itvn - F1 Critically choose and imp lement interventions to achieve practice goals and enhance capacities of clients and constituencies. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Itvn - F2 Apply knowledge of human behavior and the social environment, person - in - environment, and other multidisciplinary theoretical frameworks in interventions with clients and constituencies. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Itvn - F3 Use inter - professional collaboration as appropriate to achieve beneficial practice outcomes. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Itvn - F4 Negotiate, mediate, and advocate with and on behalf of diverse clients and constituencies. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 87 Itvn - F5 Facilitate effective transitions and endings that advance mutually agreed - on goals. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 88 9) Evaluate: Evaluate individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities . Social workers know how to use research and technological advances in the service of individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers understand how to critically analyze research literature to select appropriate interventions. Evlt - F1 Demonstrate the ability to select and use appropriate methods for evaluation of outcomes. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Evlt - F2 Apply knowledge of human behavior and the social environment, person - in - environment, and other multidisciplinary theoretical frameworks in the evaluation of outcomes. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year i n order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Evlt - F3 Critically analyze, monitor, and evaluate intervention and program processes and outcomes. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Evlt - F4 Apply evaluation findings to improve practice effectiveness at the micro, mezzo, and macro levels. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 89 Attestation: By typing my name below, I attest that I have developed and/or reviewed the content of the document above: ame: Date: Date: Master of Social Work/Field Manual 90 Appendix C - 2 Advanced Year Learning Plan s Master of Social Work/Field Manual 91 Learning Plan for MSW Field Placement Children, Youth, and Families Advanced Practice Behaviors ame: Agency: At the end of this academic year, the student is to be evaluated in regard to several measures of competence. Those measures pertaining to field placement are listed in several categories below. In the box below each section, please indicate activities in which the student will be e ngaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to develop and demonstrate these competencies. SAMPLE: Itvn - CY1 Apply advanced knowledge of clinical techniques to work wit h children, youth, and families . In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Student will conduct at least three Adoption - Centered Therapeutic Approach (ACTA) sessions in order to demonstrate her ability to addresses the complex needs of adopted children/teen/adults and their families. Student will demonstrate ability to facilitate meaningful termination process with clients at close of DV group . Student will d emonstrate ability to facilitate school - based anger management group. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 92 Core Competencies 1) Ethical and Professional Conduct: To identify as a professional social worker and conduct oneself accordingly . Social workers serve as representatives of the profession, its mission and core values. Identifying as a professional social worker involves knowing the history of social work, ways of enhancing the profession, and the importance of professional conduct and growth. PC - CY1 Use critical analysis and take leadership in resolving complex ethical situations involving children, youth, and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunit ies to demonstrate this practice behavior. PC - CY2 Model professional judg ment, behavior, and values for professionals and para - professionals in children, youth, and family settings. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 93 2) Diversity: Engage Diversity and Difference in Practice Engaging diversity and difference in practice involves understanding how the intersectionality of age, class, color, culture, disability ethnicity, gender, gender identity and expression, immigration status, political ideology, race, religion, sex, and sexual orientation shape human experience and are critical to identity formation. experiences may include oppression, poverty, marginalization, and alienation as well as privilege, power, and acclaim. Div - CY1 Take leadership in eliminating oppression, poverty, marginalization, alienation, and privilege in practice settings impacting children, youth, and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Div - CY2 Analyze the effects of intersectionality of multiple factors impacting children, youth, and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 94 3) Social & Economic Justice: Advance human rights and social and economic justice. Social workers recognize that each person has basic human rights; recognize the global interconnections of oppression; are knowledgeable about theories of justice and strategies to promote human and civil rights; and incorporate social j ustice practices in organizations, institutions, and society to ensure that these basic human rights are distributed equitably and without prejudice. SEJ - CY1 Use knowledge of economics, policy, and theory to further human rights and social, economic, and environmental justice for children, youth, and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. SEJ - CY2 Use diplomacy, advocacy, research, and collaboration to further the human rights and social, economic, and environmental justice for children, youth, and families In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 95 4) Research: Engage in research - informed practice and practice - informed research. Social workers use practice experience to inform research, employ evidence - based interventions, evaluate their own practice, and use research findings to improve practice, policy, and social service delivery. Social workers comprehend quantitative and qualitative research and understand scientific and ethical approaches to building knowledge. Rsch - CY1 Apply knowledge of quantitative and qualitative techniques to evaluation of practice with children, youth, and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Rsch - CY2 Use social work knowledge informed by scientific inquiry to implement evidence based practices for children, youth, and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opp ortunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 96 5) Policy: Engage in policy practice to advance social and economic well - being and to deliver effective social work services. Social workers understand that policy affects service delivery, and they actively engage in policy practice. Social workers know the history and current structures of social policies and services; the role of policy in service delivery; and the role of practice in policy development. Plcy - CY1 Apply knowledge of policy formulation, analysis, and implementation to work with children, youth, and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Plcy - CY2 Develop expertise in policies impacting children, youth, and families at local, state, and federal levels and identify strategies for keeping policy knowledge current. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 97 6) Engage: Engage individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers use a theory - informed knowledge base to understand the dynamic, interactive, and reciprocal processes of engagement with diverse individuals, families, groups, organizations and communities. Engg - CY1 Develop culturally responsive therapeutic relationships and e qual partnerships with children, youth, and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Engg - CY2 Attend to interpersonal dynamics and contextual factors that both strengthen and potentially threaten the therapeutic alliance in work with children, youth, and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged t his year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 98 7) Assess: Assess individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers have a theory - informed knowledge base so as to be able to assess individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. They understand how to analyze policies and services that affect the well - being of individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Asss - CY1 Apply knowledge of the DSM an d use differential diagnosis in complex mental health settings with children, youth, and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Asss - CY2 Assess client readiness for change and modify intervention strategies based on continued assessment with children, youth, and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 99 8) Intervene: Intervene with individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers use a theory - and research - informed knowledge base to identify, analyze, and implement evidence - based interventions designed to achieve client goals for diverse individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers develop leaders hip skills for implementation of policies and services that promote social and economic justice and serve the well - being of individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Itvn - CY1 Apply advanced knowledge of clinical techniques to work wit h children, youth, and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Itvn - CY2 Apply advanced knowledge of integrative and wrap - around approaches to work with children, youth, and families . In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demon strate this practice behavior. Itvn - CY3 Apply advanced knowledge of community and organizational change techniques to settings that serve children, youth, and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 100 9) Evaluate: Evaluate individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities . Social workers know how to use research and technological advances in the service of individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers understand how to critically analyze research literature to select appropriate interventions. Evlt - CY1 Us e evaluation processes to develop best practice interventions and contribute to the knowledge base around intervention with children, youth, and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Evlt - CY2 Understand and evaluate budget models in practice settings for children, youth, and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 101 Attestation: By typing my name below, I attest that I have developed and/or reviewed the content of the document above: ame: Date: Master of Social Work/Field Manual 102 Learning Plan for MSW Field Placement Adults and Families Advanced Practice Behaviors ame: Agency: At the end of this academic year, the student is to be evaluated in regard to several measures of competence. Those measures pertaining to field placement are listed in several categories below. In the box below each section, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to develop and demonstrate th ese competencies. SAMPLE: Itvn - CY1 Apply advanced knowledge of clinical techniques to work wit h children, youth, and families . In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have oppo rtunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Student will conduct at least three Adoption - Centered Therapeutic Approach (ACTA) sessions in order to demonstrate her ability to addresses the complex needs of adopted children/teen/adults and their families. Student will demonstrate ability to facilitate meaningful termination process with clients at close of DV group . Student will demonstrate ability to facilitate a weekly substance abuse treatment group. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 103 Core Competencies 1) Ethical and Professional Conduct: To identify as a professional social worker and conduct oneself accordingly . Social workers serve as representatives of the profession, its mission and core values. Identifying as a professional social worker involves knowin g the history of social work, ways of enhancing the profession, and the importance of professional conduct and growth. PC - A1 Use critical analysis and take leadership in resolving complex ethical situations involving adults and families In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. PC - A2 Model professional judgment, behavior, and values for professionals and para - professionals in adult and family settings. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunitie s to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 104 2) Diversity: Engage Diversity and Difference in Practice Engaging diversity and difference in practice involves understanding how the intersectionality of age, class, color, culture, disability ethnicity, gender, gender identity and expression, immigration status, political ideology, race, religion, sex, and sexual orientation shape human experience and are critical to identity formation. Social workers appreciate that, as a consequence of diff experiences may include oppression, poverty, marginalization, and alienation as well as privilege, power, and acclaim. Div - A1 Take leadership in eliminating oppression, poverty, marginalization, alienation, and privilege in practice settings impacting adults and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Div - A2 Analyze the effects of intersectionality on multiple factors impacting adults and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practic e behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 105 3) Social & Economic Justice: Advance human rights and social and economic justice. Social workers recognize that each person has basic human rights; recognize the global interconnections of oppression; are knowledgeable about theories of justice and strategies to promote human and civil rights; and incorporate social justice practices in organizations, institutions, and society to ensure that these basic human rights are distributed equitably and without prejudice. SEJ - A1 Use knowledge of economics, policy, and theory to further human rights and social, economic, and environmental justice for adults and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. SEJ - A2 Use diplomacy, advocacy, research, and collaboration to further human rights and social, economic, and environmental justice for adults and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 106 4) Research: Engage in research - informed practice and practice - informed research. Social workers use practice experience to inform research, employ evidence - based interventions, evaluate their own practice, and use research findings to improve practice, policy, and social service delivery. Social workers comprehend quantitative and qualitative research and understand scientific and ethical approaches to building knowledge. Rsch - A1 Apply knowledge of quantitative and qualitative techniques to evaluation of practice with adults and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Rsch - A2 Use social work knowledge informed by scientific inquiry to implement evidenced based practices for adults and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 107 5) Policy: Engage in policy practice to advance social and economic well - being and to deliver effective social work services. Social workers understand that policy affects service delivery, and they actively engage in policy practice. Social workers know the history and current structures of social policies and services; the role of policy in service delivery; and the role of practice in policy development. Plcy - A1 Apply knowledge of policy formulation, analysis, and implementation to work with adults and families. In the box below, ple ase indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Plcy - A2 Develop expertise in policies impacting adults and families at local, state, and federal levels and identify strategies for keeping policy knowledge current. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in o rder that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 108 6) Engage: Engage individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers use a theory - informed knowledge base to understand the dynamic, interactive, and reciprocal processes of engagement with diverse individuals, families, groups, organizations and communities. Engg - A1 Develop culturally responsive therapeutic relationships and equal partnerships with adults and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Engg - A2 Attend to interpersonal dynamics and contextual factors that both stre ngthen and potentially threaten the therapeutic alliance in work with children, youth, and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 109 7) Assess: Assess individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers have a theory - informed knowledge base so as to be able to assess individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. They understand how to analyze policies and services that affect the well - being of individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Asss - A1 Apply knowledge of the DSM and use differential diagnosis in complex mental health settings with adu lts and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Asss - A2 Assess client readiness for change and modify intervention strategies based on continued assessment with adults and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportu nities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 110 8) Intervene: Intervene with individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers use a theory - and research - informed knowledge base to identify, analyze, and implement evidence - based interventions designed to achieve client goals for diverse individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers develop leadership skills for implementation of policies and services that promote social and economic justice and serve the well - being of individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Itvn - A1 Apply advanced knowledge of clinical techniques to work with adults and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Itvn - A2 Apply advanced knowledge of integrative and wrap - around approaches to work with adults and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Itvn - A3 Apply advanced knowledge of community and organizational change techni ques to settings that serve adults and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 111 9) Evaluate: Evaluate individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities . Social workers know how to use research and technological advances in the service of individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Social workers understand how to critically analyze research literature to select appropriate interventions. Evlt - A1 Use evaluation processes to develop best practice interventions and contribute to the knowledge base around intervention with adults and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Evlt - A2 Understand and evaluate budget models in practice settings for adults and families. In the box below, please indicate activities in which the student will be engaged this year in order that s/he will have opportunities to demonstrate this practice behavior. Master of Social Work/Field Manual 112 Attestation: By typing my name below, I attest that I have developed and/or reviewed the content of the document above: ame: Date: Master of Social Work/Field Manual 113 Appendix C - 3 Time Log for Field Placement Master of Social Work/Field Manual 114 Department of Social Work School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy Time Log for MSW Field Placement ame: Jane Doe Agency: Agency X In the boxes below, please indicate the times that you have been involved in placement and the field activities in which you were engaged on the respective date. (Please use increments of no less than a quarter hour) . Also, please identify competencies that correspond with the activities in which you have been engaged, if applicable. SAMPLE: Date: 8/29/2011 Start Time: 9:00 AM Departure Time: 4:45 PM Hours for the Day: 7.75 Hours for the Semester: 24.75 In the box below, please indicate your field activities for this day Applicable Practice Behavior(s) Participated in interdisciplinary staff meeting Met with supervisor for field instruction Attended agency training session on cultural sensitivity Observed monthly meeting of the agency board and met with two providers who are members of the board Did intake assessments on two clients -- PC - F6 Div - F1 Itvn - F3 Asss - F2 Master of Social Work/Field Manual 115 Date: 8/28/2012 Tuesday Start Time: 9:30am Departure Time: 1:30pm Hours for the Day: 4 Hours for the Semester: 4 In the box below, please indicate your field activities for this day Applicable Practice Behavior(s) Supervision meeting with Field Instructor Staffing meeting with Agency X Team PC - F6 CTXT - F1 Date: 8/29/2012 Wednesday Start Time: 9:30am Departure Time: 3:30pm Hours for the Day: 6 Hours for the Semester: 10 In the box below, please indicate your field activities for this day Applicable Practice Behavior(s) Meet staff and counselors coming through the office Work with the other intern and create our own play therapy tool s Look and observe different BIRP notes and sample forms -- ENGG - F3 DIV - F2 Date: 8/30/2012 Thursday Start Time: 9:30am Departure Time: 4:00pm Hours for the Day: 6.5 Hours for the Semester: 16.5 In the box below, please indicate your field activities for this day Applicable Practice Behavior(s) Meet staff and counselors coming through the office Assisted client with referral to community agency Reviewed available services for TennCare clients Attended Ethics Training -- PC - F4 Plcy - F3 Eth - F5 Master of Social Work/Field Manual 116 Attestation: By typing my name below, I attest that I have constructed and/or reviewed the content of the document above: ame: Jane Doe Date: 9/18/15 Date: 9/18/2015