#http://www.memphis.edu/egypt/about/mission.php
Mission Statement - Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology About Location Teaching Staff Research Exhibition Events Resources About IEAA Mission Statement History of the IEAA Ordering IEAA Publications Friends of the IEAA Site Map Home Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology About Mission Statement Mission Statement The Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology (hereafter IEAA), founded in 1984 and designated a Tennessee Center of Excellence in 1985, is a component of the Department of Art, a unit of the College of Communication and Fine Arts of the University of Memphis. The IEAA has four primary obligations. Its first responsibility is to support the University's academic programs. The IEAA faculty and professional staff teach undergraduate, graduate, and Continuing Education classes in Egyptian art, archaeology and language. The second task of the IEAA is to conduct research and disseminate information in the field of Egyptology through the presentation of scholarly papers and the publication of articles and monographs. The third goal of the IEAA is to care for the Egyptology Library and the collection of Egyptian antiquities in its charge, to preserve and display the collection, and to interpret the objects and share knowledge about them. The current holdings in the IEAA's Egyptology Library total more than 6,000 volumes (many rare and out-of-print). Its permanent collection of over 1,400 Egyptian antiquities, including ancient Egyptian sculpture and relief carving, mummies, and objects of daily life, is the only such collection in the Mid-South. The collection is housed in the Art Museum of the University of Memphis and is free and open to the public. Guided tours can be scheduled in advance for groups of all ages and interests. In addition, the IEAA sponsors programs and curates temporary exhibitions intended to expand knowledge about all periods of Egyptian art. The IEAA originates and co-sponsors major exhibitions in Memphis on Egyptian culture. Past partners include the Memphis Wonders series and the Memphis Pink Palace Museum. The IEAA also sponsors community programs, such as its annual Family Day in the spring. In addition, its faculty and staff serve as a resource for curriculum enrichment in both public and private schools at the primary and secondary levels. The IEAA also sponsors programs for adults, including lectures, symposia, and tours. The fourth obligation of the IEAA is to support the fieldwork of faculty and students who participate in excavations and /or epigraphic projects in Egypt. The IEAA conducts excavations at the site of Luxor, Egypt, and helps to train graduate students in Egyptology by sponsoring their work at the Great Hypostyle Hall at Karnak Temple and elsewhere. About IEAA Mission Statement History of the IEAA Ordering IEAA Publications Friends of the IEAA Site Map Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/29/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .