#http://www.memphis.edu/internships/employerguide/recruiting.php
Recruiting University of Memphis Interns - Internships - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Internships Student Employer Faculty Internship Guidelines Events Contact Us Employer Guide Benefits of Sponsoring An Intern Recruiting University of Memphis Interns Orientation of Interns Supervising the Intern Evaluation of Your Internship Program Employer Success Story Home Internships Employer Guide Recruiting University of Memphis Interns Recruiting University of Memphis Interns Using the UofM TIGERLINK System The UofM now offers employers the opportunity to post their internship postings on our campus-wide electronic network. This network can be accessed by current students or alumni. This system can be used for full-time jobs, part-time jobs, or internships. When posting an internship, consider the tasks you have for your internship. Do these tasks or projects involve learning opportunities for students? Will it assist them in learning more about your industry or organization? Particularly for academic internships, we encourage you to distinguish between an internship and a part-time job. In general, an internship provides a learning opportunity for the student to acquire new skills or knowledge during the internship period. A part-time job generally involves tasks that a typical part-time employee has performed in the past such as answering the phone, filing, or handling customer requests. A few examples of an academic internship are Marketing Research projects, Process Improvement Projects, Social Media Development and Analysis, or Financial or Pricing Analysis projects. The list varies with employers and their organizations but the goal is project work that “teaches” the students something new through the experience. Our students need both internships and part-time jobs so we are happy to list both types of opportunities for you—we just ask you to categorize your needs between these two options. When using this system, it is important to clearly communicate your opportunity in order to attract students to your posting. Points of importance include: Internship responsibilities or duties Work Location Compensation Campus Interviews—this is optional, it is also helpful for the internship candidates to visit your location for the interview as well. Hours Expected (Academic Internships require a minimum of 150 clock hours in order to earn academic credit) Directions for submitting resumes from interested students—who in your organization should receive these resumes; most employers prefer resumes to be emailed to a key contact for processing. Click here to view a sample posting which you can use as template for your position. To post your internship opportunity, you may create a Tigerlink account or contact Tammy Haley at tlhaley@memphis.edu if you have any questions. Employer Guide Benefits of Sponsoring An Intern Recruiting University of Memphis Interns Orientation of Interns Supervising the Intern Evaluation of Your Internship Program Employer Success Story Veteran Reconnect Internship Program Learn more about the Veteran Reconnect Internship Program The Washington Center Internship Program Learn more about TWC Green Internship Program Tiger Blue Goes Green Search for Internships Browse Current Internship Opportunities Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/26/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .