#http://www.memphis.edu/its/governance/esac.php
Enterprise Systems Advisory Committee - ITS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Information Technology Services About umTech Security Governance Resources Governance Governance Structure ITS Extended Governance ITS Governance Structure ITS Governance Technical Teams and Work Groups Technology and Higher Education Reports IT Governance in Higher Education Decentralized IT Governance 2014 Horizon Report TechQual+ Surveys FY2012 Techqual+ Survey FY2013 Techqual+ Survey FY2013 Techqual+ Summary and Action Plans FY2014 Techqual+ Survey ITS Strategic Planning FY2014 ITS Strategic Plan FY2014 ITS Strategic Plan Follow-up FY2014 ITS List of Completed Projects Home ITS Governance Enterprise Systems Advisory Committee Enterprise Systems Advisory Committee The Enterprise Systems Advisory Committee (ESAC) advises the CIO on IT matters related to enterprise information systems issues. Examples of responsibilities: review and recommend related IT standards, guidelines and policies; review, oversee and establish priorities for all administrative systems projects; coordinate among client departments competing for limited IT resources; help ITS maintain the architectural consistency of administrative systems; advise ITS on the opportunities for process improvement and operational efficiencies using technology; document and review system proposals, and coordinate the reports from the technical teams and work groups. ESAC Agendas and Minutes ESAC Project Forms Charge The Enterprise Systems Advisory Committee advises the CIO on IT matters related to enterprise information systems issues. Examples of responsibilities: review and recommend related IT standards, guidelines and policies; review, oversee and establish priorities for all administrative systems projects; coordinate among client departments competing for limited IT resources; help ITS maintain the architectural consistency of administrative systems; advise ITS on the opportunities for process improvement and operational efficiencies using technology; document and review system proposals, and coordinate the reports from the technical teams and work groups. Composition Team leaders from the core Spectrum modules (Finance, HR, Student, Advancement); AVP level / key principals from administrative and academic divisions; Faculty / Staff Senate representatives and ITS staff (Ex-Officio members from the ITS Director's group). The CIO appoints the Chair for a two year term. In addition, there are five permanent committee members. Member role To provide input on behalf of constituents; to disseminate IT related information; to assist in implementing IT policy and procedures; review and prioritize proposals from all university departments for IT systems, services and support; to make recommendations with a University perspective. The committee meets bi-weekly, (or as needed) throughout the year. Advisory Path Policy to the IT Policy &amp; Planning Council; advisory to the CIO. Governance Governance Structure ITS Extended Governance ITS Governance Structure ITS Governance Technical Teams and Work Groups Technology and Higher Education Reports IT Governance in Higher Education Decentralized IT Governance 2014 Horizon Report TechQual+ Surveys FY2012 Techqual+ Survey FY2013 Techqual+ Survey FY2013 Techqual+ Summary and Action Plans FY2014 Techqual+ Survey ITS Strategic Planning FY2014 ITS Strategic Plan FY2014 ITS Strategic Plan Follow-up FY2014 ITS List of Completed Projects Security Information Learn more about IT security policies and guidelines. Need Help with Technology? Request technical support via UMhelpdesk. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .