#http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/vetedben/faq.php
FAQ - Registrar - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty &amp; Staff Forms Veterans Ed Benefits Veterans Benefits Responsibilities and Reminders Certification Resources FAQ Notice! Home Registrar Veterans FAQ FAQ We know you have questions about your Veterans benefits. For that reason we have tried to anticipate some as well as provide you with other resources. The Basic Questions Which GI Bill® fits my needs? Go to our Programs &amp; Benefits page for this information. (GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information is available at the official U.S. government Web site at .) How Do I apply for VA Educational Benefits? Go to our Programs &amp; Benefits page for this information. Can National Guard or Reserve Tuition Assistance be used in conjunction with my GI Bill benefits? Yes, however, depending on which GI Bill benefit you are claiming there may be an issue with duplicating benefits between VA, DoD, or both. All Active Duty Service Members and Chapter 33 (Post 9/11) recipients- If you are eligible to receive TA and GI Bill Benefits, you cannot claim GI Bill benefits for a course that TA is already authorized to pay. The amount received from TA is deducted from the net cost of Tuition and Fees submitted to the VA. How much credit can I expect to get for my military experience? Students who served 12 consecutive months on active duty may receive up to 6 semester credit hours by submitting a copy of their DD-214 to the University of Memphis Admissions office. In order to apply for credit for prior military training or education, submit an official copy of your military transcript to the Admission Office, 201 Wilder Tower. Will that credit count toward my degree program? You may check to see how credits apply towards your degree plan by consulting with an academic advisor. Currently enrolled students may also check Umdegree by logging into the MyMemphis portal and clicking on the “My Degree” tab. Most credits are applied as elective credit. How is my residency determined for paying in-state or out-of-state tuition? Residency requirements are processed through the Admissions Office. If you have questions concerning these requirements, please contact Admissions (201 Wilder Tower; 901.678.2111; admissions@memphis.edu ). Can my GI Bill benefits be transferred to my dependents? The transferability option is available under the Post-9/11 GI Bill. Service members may transfer unused benefits to their spouses or dependent children. For more specific information on how to transfer benefits, refer to the GI Bill website . Click on “Post 9/11 &amp; Other Programs” tab. From the drop-down options, click “The Post 9/11 GI Bill.” From this transferability page, click on Transfer of Post-9/11 GI-Bill Benefits to Dependents (TEB) located on the left hand side. How do I transfer my GI Bill benefits from another institution to U of M? If you are a Veteran or CH 33 dependent, complete VA form 22-1995. DEA dependents (CH 35) will complete 22-5495 application located on the GI Bill website : Click “Apply for Benefits” Click “Launch VONAPP” Select the appropriate application either 22-1995 or 22-5495 from the drop-down menu and complete. Once completed, click submit to electronically send your application to the Department of Veterans Affairs Regional Office for processing. Who can help me to decide on a major? If you are currently enrolled contact your academic advisor for help deciding on a major. If you need an advisor, contact Academic Counseling Center (212 Wilder Tower; 901.678.2065) to schedule an appointment. How can I fulfill the admission requirement for the ACT or SAT? Please contact Admissions (201 Wilder Tower; 901.678.2111; admissions@memphis.edu ) for information regarding ACT or SAT requirements. What is a VA Deferment? How do I request a VA Deferment? A VA Deferment is a request made by service members, veterans, and dependents of veterans who are eligible for and receiving VA educational assistance benefits to defer payment of Tuition and fees until the end of the term. You make a request for VA Deferment letter through the Veterans Educational Benefits &amp; Certification Office (003 Wilder Tower) after you register for classes and complete a Veterans Request for Certification form. What is Advance Pay? How do I apply? Advance pay is available for those receiving benefits under GI Bill Educational programs other than CH 33 Post 9/11. Veterans and dependents who are registered for half-time or more credit hours may apply for Advance pay. Contact the Veterans Educational Benefits &amp; Certification Office for eligibility requirements and the Advance pay application. Other FAQs From Ask Tom The University's Ask TOM database serves as a repository for answers to some of the more commonly asked questions by UofM students. Many of the questions/answers pertain to Veterans and their benefits. Can I defer the payment of my tuition and fees if I am receiving veterans benefits? How will my veterans benefits be affected if my instructor reports me as "never attended" or "stopped attending"? Can I enroll at UofM and another institution simultaneously and still receive benefits for attending both institutions? When can I apply for advance payment? Why do I have to fill out a VA certification form every semester? How soon should I submit my VA paperwork for an upcoming term? How does the VA determine which courses I'll receive VA pay for? What happens if I fail the courses I am taking with my VA benefits? Whom do I notify about a change-of-address if I am using VA benefits? Do I have to enroll as a full-time student to use my VA benefits? What do I need to do to receive credit for prior military training/education? From the Department of Veteran Affairs Visit the Department of Veterans Affairs website for a list of over 400 frequently asked questions and answers. Veterans Ed Benefits Veterans Benefits Responsibilities and Reminders Certification Resources FAQ Notice! Calendars Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams. Notice! Check for alerts and reminders. Contact Us Have questions? Need assistance or information? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .