#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/pdfs/2015falltrainingschedulelcsw.pdf
Department of Social Work University of Memphis Exam Preparation for the L C SW License October 2 nd , 201 5 University Center Memphis B (340B) 8:00 am 4 :00 pm Time Topic 7:00 8 :00 am Registration and Networking 7:50 8 :00 am Welcome 8:00 10:00 am Session 1 10:00 10:10 am Break 10:10 am 12:00 pm Session 2 12:00 1:00 pm Lunch (ON YOUR OWN) 1:00 pm 2:50 pm Session 3 2:50 pm - 3:00 pm Break 3:00 pm 4:00 pm Session 4 Trainers: Dr. Susan E Elswick LCSW, LSSW Dr. work from the University of Tennessee and her doctorate in Special Education with a specialty in Applied Behavior Analysis from the University of Memphis. She is a Licensed School Social Worker in TN, a Licens ed Clinical Social Worker, and she runs a small private practice and consulting company that provides on - site, school - based behavioral health services. She is also currently an Assistant Clinical Professor and Director of MSW Field Placements for Universit y of Memphis Department of Social Work. Prior to starting this site - based service model and joining the U of M faculty, she was a school - based social work clinician for 10 years. She has provided school - based social work services in the both rural and urba n school settings, and has previous experience in community mental health and residential services. She has recently been published in educational, behavior, and social work journals (Children and Schools, The Clearing House, and Beyond Behavior). Her rese arch interests include assessment and intervention for children with both academic and behavioral difficulties, the use of Response to Intervention in multiple settings, and the use of evidence - based interventions and services to correct maladaptive behavi ors in order to improve educational outcomes for children. Laura Taylor, LCSW Ms. Taylor is the Director of BA Field Placements for the University Of Memphis Department Of Social Work. Her primary responsibility is the practicum component of the social work program which includes implementation of field processes and procedures, development of field sites and maintaining effective working relationships with placement sites, field instructors, faculty and students. She assists and develops policies, proce dures and objectives of field courses and concomitant field seminar courses. She also provides direct instruction in field and seminar courses and academic advising to students. Ms. Taylor also runs a small clinical practice serving children, adolescents, and families in the local area. Her specific interests are in adoption work and work within the DCS system delivery model.