#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/acct/2015FACCT2010002.pdf
1 COURSE SYLLABUS ACCOUNTING 2 010 - 002 FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING FALL 201 5 3.0 Credit Hours INSTRUCTOR Name: Dr. Kenneth Lambert Office: 217 Fogelman College of Business Office Phone: 678 - 5762 Office Hours: T & R 1:00 - 2;3 0pm. Appointments at other times as needed. E - Mail: klambert@memphis.edu Classroom: Fogelman College, Room 12 5 . Class times: TTh 9:40 11:0 5 pm COURSE OVERVIEW ACCT 2010 - 002 is an introductory course in financial accounting . This course provides basic information regarding how accounting is used to capture and record the essential information in business transactions for an individual company , as well as how this information is summarized, classified and prepared for entiti es external to that company who desire information about the company for decision - making purposes. Accounting is often referred to as the language of business . The purpose of accounting is to provide meaningful financial information to individuals and i nstitutions that have an interest in business, whether they are investors, creditors or managers. Intelligent investors seek out financial information that creates and provides the information used by investors. Business managers likewise need information produced through accounting in making the day - to - day operational decisions that ul investor or manager or simply want a better understanding of your own financial situation, you will need to understand accounting information to improve your decision - making. PRE - REQUISITES/CO - REQUISITES There are no specific course pre - requisites req uired prior to taking this course. Students should have a good grasp of basic mathematics and writing skills. In general it is assumed that all students who are registering for Fogelman College classes have successfully completed all pre - requisite courses or are enrolled currently in any co - requisites courses associated with this course or any other course 2 they register to take. COURSE MATERIALS Financial Accounting 3 rd Edition , Spiceland, Thomas, and Herrmann. You will need the third edition of this book and it is available at the University of Memphis Bookstore, at private bookstores in the community or from a variety of sources online. Connect Connect Accounting Plus is pa ckaged free with the textbook if the textbook is purchased through the university or Tiger bookstore. With Connect Accounting Plus , you also get 24/7 online access to an eBook an online edition of the text to aid you in successfully completing your wo access code ct. the textbook. o If you purchase the textbook online or buy it used , you will need to go to the Connect website provided in eCourseware to purchase an access code that you must have to register with Connect . The only access code you can purchase is for Connect Accounting Plus described above. Connect is required to successfully complete this course! Please go to the eCourseware Content page under Getting Started for the link to purchase Connect . o The most economical means of acquiring the textbook is to just purchase Connect Accounting Plus which includes an eBook the online version of the text. Though a hard copy of the book is helpful, it is not required. You can purchase Connect Plus through the Getting Started o All support course materials (PowerPoint slides, notes, news, etc.) are located on the eCourseware website . REGISTERING IN CONNECT: After you have acquired an access code you will need to register in C onnect. T his particular section of ACCT 2010 has its own unique registration site in the Connect web site . Be sure to use the web address provided in the Getting Started portion of eCourseware to successfully register for this section. If you try to use a web address obtained from another student taking this course, in a different section, you will be registered in the wrong section and I will not be able to see any of your completed homework or have access to the points you earned. ALSO it is very important that you register ONLY ONCE and use your official U niversity of Memphis name just as you use in your official records here at the University no nick names le to find your name in Connect exactly as it is on the UofM Class Roster for this class . 3 COURSE OBJECTIVES Upon successfully completing ACCT 2010 students should be able to: 1. Describe and explain the two primary functions of financial accounting as well as fundamental accounting concepts and the elements of financial statements. 2. Understand and explain basic accounting vocabulary (terminology). 3 . Describe and provide examples of common business activities measured by financial accounting and be able to analyze the financial impact of those activities using the accounting equation. 4 . Explain how financial accounting information is communicated through financial s tatements, what the basic financial statements are as well as the content of each financial statement. 5 . Describe how financial accounting information is used in decision making. 6 . Explain the term Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and describe its role in financial accounting. 7 . Accurately define assets, liabilities, 8 . Analyze and record the impact of external and internal transact ions on the accounting equation using standard accoun ting terminology and techniques. 9 . Prepare , and be able to interpret , basic financial statements , in proper format , from trial balance information. 10 . Be able to explain the articulation between the financial statements. 11. Explain the issues of ethics in financial accounting and reporting. 12. Explain the basic features of accounting and reporting by organizations, including the principles underlying the design, integrity, and effectiveness of information systems. FOGELMAN COLLEGE LEARNING OUTCOMES FOR YOUR DEGREE This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectiv es for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with the overall learning objectives as a student in the BBA pr ogram : COURSE METHODOLOGY This course is a fact - to - face course that is taught in a traditional classroom environment . In this environment we will meet in a traditional classroom twice per week throughout the entire semester . This course meets at specific times in an assigned classroom as indicated on page 1 above . Classes are a combi nation of lecture and demonstrated problem solving methodology. MY EXPECTATIONS OF STUDENTS 1. Attend every class and arrive on time. 2. Come to class prepared. Read the material scheduled for each day (see class schedule below) and attempt to work the homework assignments for that material. 3. Be prepared ( willing ) to ask questions you may have encountered in your study of the assigned materials for each class. 4. Be prepared ( willing ) to respond to questions that your professor may ask during class and participate in the discussion of lecture material when asked to do so. 4 5 . Be attentive in class Course Policies 6. Keep up with the progress of the course. Getting behind o n reading the chapters, studying the material and doing the homework assignments is a sure way to make the course much more difficult than it is. 7 . Read and know the information in this syllabus. Be totally aware of deadlines and due dates for all assignm ents and accept responsibility for meeting those requirements. GRADING On eCourseware, you will find your scores under the following specific headings: Points Possible Online Quizzes ( Connect web site ) 26 Syllabus Quiz 15 Homework & LearnSmart ( Connect web site ) 66 Attendance (GUDS) 36 Exam 1 100 Exam 2 100 Exam 3 100 Final Exam 100 *** Total Possible Points 4 43 Your final grade will be determined based on the total points earned, as follows: A = 384 and above B = 342 383 C = 299 341 D = 256 298 F = 255 or below *** You must have an average exam grade of 65 to pass this class! This average DOES NO T include the quizzes and homework . It is the average of the best two of the three exams plus the final exam as listed above. COURSE POLICIES E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You can expect to receive off icial course correspondence from your professor at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not regularly ATTENDANCE: Beginning August 27 , attendance will be taken each period. Each period will begin with a lecture of - of - chapter material. Most classes will include class work entitled GUDS ( G reater U nderstanding D evice S ) that will be worked in class and handed in for 2 points. These will always be open book and open notes. The GUDS will be checked to make sure you attempted to solve the problem. However, the material will not be graded. You will receive Lowest grade will be dropped. Does not include the final exam! 5 the 2 po ints as long as you make a serious attempt and are present to turn in the class work. The GUDS will be reviewed at the beginning of the next class. If you are not present, you cannot make up the GUDS unless you are on a school - sanctioned trip. To allow absences, 16 extra points are included in the total possible points. If you hand in all the GUDS, complete all the Connect assignments correctly and answer all the quizzes correctly, the extra points will be treated like bonus points as long as you make at least a 65 average on your exams . TECHNOLOGY RULES: Computers will not be allowed in class . In the past, computers have been allowed. However, the temptation to give in to distractions like internet and email ha s proven too great. If you use the eBook, you will need to print the pages or slides prior to class. Cell pho nes will not be allowed in class . Should I see you using a cell phone (texting, talking, lose the attendance credit for the day. Because of advances in technology, you can use ONLY a basic five - function calculator for exams. probably less than $5.00. Additionally, because of advances in cell phone technology, smart phones are able to store and transmit large amounts of data . For this reason, cell phones must be turned off and put away during exams and exam review (as they should be during all other class times) . If you have any questions and/or concerns about the calculator you are using, see the instructor before the exam so that we can resolve t he issue . ACADEMIC INTEGRITY : The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a Office of Student Conduct we bsite . If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Academic misconduct during an exam will result in a grade of zero for that exam and notification to University officials. Academic misconduct includes helping or getting help from others or using unauthorized materials in completing the exam. Academic misconduct is considered unethical behavior and students should not compromis e their integrity for something as trivial as a grade in this course. CLASS CONDUCT: Students will LOSE five points of their attendance/conduct grade if they disrupt the class in any way, suc h as talking excessively or other similar distracting behavior. It is my responsibility to other students and to the University to create an environment conducive to learning. Your disruption of that environment will result in a loss of points and could le ad to expulsion from the course. EXAMS: Exams will consist of multiple - choice questions and problems. Exams are worth 100 points. The 6 first exam cover s chapters 1 - 2 . T he second exam covers chapters 1 - 4 . The third exam covers chapters 1 - 7 . The final exam covers 1 - 11. Exams must be taken at the scheduled time . No late exams will be given except for official university - approved activities. If a student misses an exam for personal reasons (sickness, family emergency, etc.), then it will be considered the l owest exam grade and dropped. The final exam is scheduled for December 4th from 1 - 3pm! It cannot be dropped! All sections of ACCT 2010 take the exam together. Be certain you can make the final exam! QUIZZES : All the quizzes are online in Connect the McGraw - Hill web site where homework assignments are completed except for the syllabus quiz. It will not be taken at the Connect web site. HOMEWORK ASSIGNMENTS : Homework assigned in Connect should be completed online. Homework will be graded and totals 66 possible points (4 points possible each chapter for Required Assignments and 2 points possible each chapter for LearnSmart Assignments ). You may work the homework as many times as you like up to the cutoff date . All homework assignments have stated end dates and will not be available after the end date . The highest grade is recorded. Students should try to complete the homework before class. The material on the exams will come directly from the material in the homework. Students can judge their development in the course by noting how well they understand the homework. With LearnSmart, you have the opportunity to increase your performance on each of your exams and, more importantly, your knowledge of this criti cal component of your accounting program leads you through a learning process for each chapter, allowing you to move to the next level only after you have dem onstrated an understanding of the previous level. Your score points as a way to measure your own performance and motivate you. The number of points you earn depends on how you assess your ability to answer a question. For instance, if you click "Easy" and answer the question correctly, you will get the greatest number of points possible. If you answer correctly after selecting one of the other buttons "Think I've got it," "Unsure," and "No idea" you will still earn points. However, you get fewer poi nts for the items you do not believe you know as well. So, if you select "Unsure" and get the answer correct, you will get fewer points than if you had selected "Easy" or "Think I've got it." The same applies if you get an answer incorrect. If you do not know the answer after clicking "Easy," points will be deducted from your score. Fewer points are deducted if you select "Think I've got it" or "Unsure," and get the answer incorrect. If you click "Unsure," points will not be deducted even if you incorrectl y answer the question. Spelling errors, almost correct answers, and getting only part of a question correct also affect the score. Of course, you can increase your score by going through the same module multiple times, always being as honest as possible wh en rating yourself. In essence, the more you learn, the better the score. The total points you can earn is 6 points per chapter. Time to complete a chapter varies but averages about one to one and a LearnSmart, you could spend a lot more 7 time due to needing to repeat areas you do not know. Instructions for Connect are on eCourseware. The URL site you need to go to for this course is on eCourseware under the Getting Started section . EXTRA CREDIT AN D CURVED GRADES: There will be no extra credit available to individuals who want to improve their grade by doing some type of extra work over and above what is available to other students in the class . The only way to improve your grade in this course is to attend class regularly, be prepared for the exams, and complete required assignments . - grading scale which permits you to have some absences or miss s ome of the homework assignments without being penalized. SYLLABUS CHANGES : As your professor in this course, I reserve the right to make changes as necessary to this syllabus. If changes are necessitated during the term of the course, I will notify stud ents of such changes by announcing the changes in class, by individual email communication and posting in eCourseware. KEYS TO SUCCESS IN THIS COURSE Many consider accounting to be another math course. This is far from the truth. While numbers are lves analyzing business transactions, knowing how to record those transactions, preparing financial statements, and interpreting financial results. Doing well in an accounting course involves knowing the vocabulary used in accounting plus analyzing and org anizing information. For this reason, homework, class work and attendance are the keys to success. Students often falsely believe that they can wait until the night before the exam, cram everything in, and do just as well as if they were prepared daily. T o do well, you need to attend class each period . I can help to synthesize the material and point out the key concepts that are needed. Students who attend class on a regular basis generally learn far more in less time than students who skip class and try t o meet course requirements on their own outside of class. Students should also complete the assigned homework before class. Students not familiar with the problems will have difficulty keeping up in class. Finally, expect that you can learn the material each class. Do not be intimidated by the numbers or the complexity of the topic. Your goal should be to understand all material each class. This course builds on core concepts that are covered in the first three chapters of the book. Because these concep ts are required to be able to grasp the remaining chapters, we will spend a greater percentage of time on the first chapters. Beginning with chapter 4, only some of the learning objectives will be covered. Be sure to read the course schedule below to kno w what material will be covered and tested. In every class, some students have a natural talent for understanding accounting and do well on the 8 multiple - choice exams with relatively little effort. Other students are able to master the material only after working very hard. Finally, for some students, the analytical thinking process associated with accounting is a skill that they seem to have been born without and regardless of the time and effort you have honestly put forth your best effort, do not get discouraged. This is just one course in your college career and this probably just means that you will end up hiring an accountant rather than doing it yourself. Do the best you can, learn as much a s you can, and do not become overly concerned about your ultimate grade. CRITICAL THINKING & COMMUNICATION In our class discussions on financial accounting requirements, you will be continually encouraged to question each requirement, (1) focusing on w hy, not just how, (2) learning d ifferential analysis techniques to use in financial statement analysis, and (3) drawing conclusions that test your understanding of the issues discussed in the course . One of the goal s is to foster a critical thinking mindset to help equip you to cope with the rapidly evolving standard - setting envi ronment. The homework and lectures are specifically designed to promote critical thinking by requiring you to analyze how journal entries af fect the financial statements. INSTRUCTIONAL ASSISTANCE Tutoring is offered free on the second floor of the Fogelman Business building in the ESP Business Learning Center, room 256. Hours are posted on the door . Additional questions are provided in Con . Examples of all end - of - chapter material for which you will be held responsible will be worked in class. You will have plenty of opportunity to practice this material by completing assigned homework and practice problems on Connect. Should you get stuck on a homework problem try going back to the pages in the chapter where the subject matter of the problem is discussed and re - study the topic. Also, there is frequently a demonstration problem, journal entries or other illustration to e xplain the topic be sure to study those items and you will probably be able to get the information you need to complete the STUDENT SERVICES Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about: Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance 9 COURSE SCHE DULE Date Title Description 8/24/2015 Class Orientation under Content at eCourseware. For each Chapter: Read and study the chapter using the hard copy or Smartbook on Connect , Download the PowerPoint slides and print them to take to class ( ) , Complete the LearnSmart for the chapter in Connect, Answer the quiz questions for the chapter in Connect, Submit solutions t o the required assi gnments in Connect. 8/25 A Framework for Financial Accounting Chapter 1 Connect LearnSmart, Quiz and Required Assignments. 8/27 A Framework for Financial Accounting, cont. Chapter 1 , GUDS 1 Connect LearnSmart, Quiz and Required Assignments. 9/1 A Framework for Financial Accounting, cont. Chapter 1 , GUDS 2 Connect LearnSmart, Quiz and Required Assignments. 9/3 The Accounting Cycle, During the Period Chapter 2, GUDS 3 Connect LearnSmart, Quiz and Required Assignments. 9/8 The Accounting Cycle, During the Period, cont. Chapter 2, GUDS 4 Connect LearnSmart, Quiz and Required Assignments. 9/10 The Accounting Cycle, During the Period, cont. Chapter 2, GUDS 5 Connect LearnSmart and Required Assignments. 9/15 Review Chap. 1 - 2 All Ch 1&2 Assignments in Connect Due 9/15 ! 9/17 Exam, Chap. 1 2 Multiple Choice and problems 9/22 The Accounting Cycle, End of the Period Chapter 3, GUDS 6 Connect LearnSmart, Quiz and Required Assignments. 9/24 The Accounting Cycle, End of the Period, cont. Chapter 3, GUDS 7 Connect LearnSmart, Quiz and Required Assignments. 9/29 The Accounting Cycle, End of the Period, cont. Chapter 3, GUDS 8 All Ch 3 Assignments in Connect DUE 9/29 ! 10/1 Cash and Internal Controls Chapter 4, GUDS 9 Connect LearnSmart, Quiz and Required A ssignments. 10 10/6 Review Chap. 1 - 4 All Ch 4 Assignments in Connect DUE 10/6 ! 10/8 Exam, Chap. 1 4 Multiple Choice and problems 10/13 FALL BREAK No class! 10/15 Receivables and Sales Chapter 5, GUDS 10 All Ch 5 Assignments in Connect DUE 10/15 ! 10/20 Inventory and Cost of Goods Sold Chapter 6, GUDS 11 Connect LearnSmart, Quiz and Required Assignments. 10/22 Inventory and Cost of Goods Sold, cont. Chapter 6, GUDS 12 All Ch 6 Assignments in Connect DUE 10/22 ! 10/27 Long - Term Assets Chapter 7, GUDS 13 Connect LearnSmart, Quiz and Required Assignments. 10/29 Review Chap. 1 - 7 All Ch 7 Assignments in Connect DUE 10/29 ! 11/3 Exam, Chap. 1 7 Multiple Choice and problems 11/5 Current Liabilities Chapter 8, GUDS 14 Connect LearnSmart, Quiz and Required Assignments. 11/10 Current Liabilities, cont. Chapter 8, GUDS 15 All Ch 8 Assignments in Connect DUE 11/10 ! 11/12 Long - Term Liabilities Chapter 9, GUDS 16 All Ch 9 Assignments in Connect DUE 11/15 ! 11/17 Chapter 10, GUDS 17 Connect LearnSmart, Quiz and Required Assignments. 11/19 Equity, cont. Chapter 10, GUDS 18 All Ch 10 Assignments in Connect DUE 11/19 ! 11/24 Statement of Cash Flows Chapter 11 Connect LearnSmart, Quiz and Required Assignments. 12/1 Review Chap. 1 - 11 All Ch 11 Assignments in Connect DUE 12/01 ! 12/4 Final Exam, Chap. 1 - 11 1pm 3pm