#http://www.memphis.edu/internships/employerguide/employersuccessstories.php
Employer Success Stories - Internships - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Internships Student Employer Faculty Internship Guidelines Events Contact Us Employer Guide Benefits of Sponsoring An Intern Recruiting University of Memphis Interns Orientation of Interns Supervising the Intern Evaluation of Your Internship Program Employer Success Story Home Internships Employer Guide Employer Success Stories Employer Success Stories Many community partners find internships with the University of Memphis a successful component of their HR strategy. To watch a video of successful internship experiences, Click here . Here are a few thoughts from some of our current partners: "The Council's experience with Shannon White is proof positive that internships benefit everyone. She immediately became an integral part of the team and provides a unique perspective, amazing insight and an incredible work ethic. Her desire to learn is invigorating and having someone new who is interested in our mission and work has challenged us to re-evaluate our processes and expand our influence." Jennifer Rawls Executive Director Tennessee Economic Council on Women "At Smith &amp; Nephew, we have found internship programs are a great way to evaluate prospective new employees by observing how they perform on the job in our environment. Students from the University of Memphis are among our best interns, and we have hired many of them into full-time positions." Laura Whitsitt, BSME '87, MS '88, Univ. of Memphis Senior VP, Global Research &amp; Innovation Orthopaedics Smith &amp; Nephew, Inc. "Ashley's internship is a model example of why employers have internship programs; she contributed well to her assigned projects, provided a fresh view of how we operate, gained experience in the area of Corporate Purchasing, and demonstrated her capabilities and work ethic with excellence. All of these factors contributed to International Paper offering Ashley a full-time position with our company." Lance Losurdo Manager, MRO Sourcing Global Sourcing, International Paper "It is absolutely a win, win for students and businesses. It allows us to increase the depth and quality of programs and interns get great real-world, workplace experience to add to classroom knowledge and activities." Rose Merry Brown, BPS '93, Univ. of Memphis Director, Intern &amp; Volunteer Services Exchange Club Family Center Employer Guide Benefits of Sponsoring An Intern Recruiting University of Memphis Interns Orientation of Interns Supervising the Intern Evaluation of Your Internship Program Employer Success Story Veteran Reconnect Internship Program Learn more about the Veteran Reconnect Internship Program The Washington Center Internship Program Learn more about TWC Green Internship Program Tiger Blue Goes Green Search for Internships Browse Current Internship Opportunities Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/26/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .