#http://www.memphis.edu/mscm/faculty/olcooper.php
ORRIN COOPER - MSCM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Marketing &amp; Supply Chain Management Welcome Programs Students Faculty PhD Students Publications FCBE Welcome Programs Students Faculty MKTG Faculty SCM Faculty PhD Students Publications Home MSCM Faculty ORRIN COOPER ORRIN COOPER Assistant Professor, Department of Marketing &amp; Supply Chain Management Phone 901 678 4546 Email olcooper@memphis.edu Fax Office BA 332 Office Hours T 1:00 - 2:00 PM &amp; TH 4:10 - 5:10 PM &amp; walk in/Digital Office hours/by appt Website Biography Orrin is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management. He came from the University of Pittsburgh where he obtained his PhD in Decision Science and Operations Management. Former studies also include a Master of Public Administration from Brigham Young University and a Bachelor of Art in Psychology and Business Management from Utah Valley University. The specialties that he brings to the University of Memphis include multi-criteria decision making, specifically with the Analytic Network Process (ANP), and behavioral operations management. Orrin’s motivation in the classroom is to prepare students for the workforce. “Students need to know how to use Excel as they enter the workplace; it makes a huge difference to an employer to have experience with this amazing tool.” He also places particular emphasis on developing Cognitive Reflection skills (critical thinking) in his students. This focus is driven by his former work experience as a budget analyst. The focus on education in the classroom is also accompanied by his current research to develop a Consistency Index for the ANP Supermatrix. He also expresses a particular interest to focus more on behavioral operations management, in the near future. Recent published works include a research article in the Journal of Multi-Criteria Decision Analysis (Selection of a Third-Party Logistics Provider: Capturing the Interaction and Influence of Performance Metrics with the Analytical Network Process), and another article on how companies can select which green supply chain initiative would be most beneficial to implement. Research Interests: Analytic Network Process (ANP) Behavioral Operations Supply Chain Management Publications: Zhu, K., O. Cooper, S. Yang, and Q. Dong, (2014) An Extension of the AHP Dummy Pivot Modeling Applied to the Restructuring of the Iron and Steel Industry in China." IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management Cooper, O., and Q. Dong, (2013) "Bilateral Relations Between China and The United States: Policy Prioritization with the ANP." Journal of Systems Science and Systems Engineering, Vol 22, Issue 2, pp. 202-226. Cooper, O., P. Tadikamalla, and J. Shang, (2012) “Capturing the Interaction and Influence of Performance Metrics in the Selection of a 3rd Party Logistics Provider with ANP.” Journal of Multi-Criteria Decision Analysis . Petrillo, A., O. Cooper, F. De Felice, (2011) “Supply Chain Design by Integrating Multicriteria Decision Analysis and a Sustainability Approach.” International Organization of Scientific Research Journal of Engineering. Teaching Current SCMS 3711 Analytical Tools SCMS 7110 Quantitative Tools for Managers Prior Experience Statistics Operations Management Creativity and Problem Solving Service Reviewer: Journal of Multi-Criteria Decision Analysis International Journal of the Analytic Hierarchy Process International Journal of Production Research Session Chair: ISAHP 2013 Kuala Lumpar, Malaysia INFORMS 2012, Phoenix, Arizona INFORMS 2011, Charlotte, North Carolina INFORMS 2010, Austin, Texas Welcome Programs Students Faculty MKTG Faculty SCM Faculty PhD Students Publications Majors &amp; Minors See how a MSCM degree can benefit you! MSCM Internship Program Want to gain “real world” work experience related to your academic studies? Look no further! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .