#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2013-2014/0913min.pdf
1 UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES MINUTES, Meeting 416 September 6, 201 3 2:00 p.m., 304 University Center PRESENT: L. Bennett (CAS), D. Sherrell (MSCM), M. Logan (CCFA), M. O™Nele (THEATRE), C. Stewart (COMM) , E. Rakow (CEHHS), J . Byford (ICL), L . Weiss (HSS), D . Hochstein (ENGINEERING), A . Curry (BIOMED ), R . Meier (CIVL ), G . Shiba (NURSING), D . Irwin (UNIV . COLLEGE), M. Levy (SPH ), R. Evans (FACULTY SENATE) , K. Duckett (GSA), B . Park (Librar y), K . Weddle -West (Graduate School) , J. Brownlee (Graduate School) , L. Griggs (Graduate Admissions) ABSENT: G. Emmert (CHEM ; proxy=L. Bennett ), M. B. Mader (PHIL ; proxy = M. Logan ), S. Neely -Barnes (SWRK; proxy = L. Bennett ), J . Dhaliwal (FCBE; proxy = D. Sherrell), and D. Wark (SCSD; proxy = E. Rakow) GUESTS: Robert Jackson, Information Technology K. Weddle -West opened the meeting at 2:04 p.m. when a quorum was attained. 416.2.1 Introduction of new members : K. Weddle -West welcomed all new members. The council went around the table introducing themselves. K. Weddle -West then introduced Mr. Robert Jackson to the council. She noted that since Mr. Jackson is our guest we will allow him to speak first. 416.5.1 Discussing needs and possibilities for centralized applications Œ current process and needs : Mr. Jackson attended this meeting to discuss the needs and possibilities for a centralized application process. He wants to help us think through what a centralized process might look like. He noted that ITS wants to work together to find something that will solve as much of the problem as possible. He acknowledged that we won™t likely find something that works with 100% of the programs. Instead we will need to compr omise. He also noted that one major challenge will be deciding to what degree we want to do any integration with banner. K. Weddle -West suggested that a committee be formed to further look into this issue. On this committee there should be one representati ve from each college/school. Please send your representative™s name to M. Kyle by September 16, 2013. 416.2.2 Introduction of Kaitlin Duckett, GSA President : K. Weddle -West introduced the new Graduate Student Association (GSA) President, Kaitlin Duckett, to the council. K. Duckett announced that the GSA needs two representatives from each 2 college/school. K. Weddle -West asked that the council please send the names of the two graduate students to M. Kyle by September 16, 2013. 416.2.3 2013-2014 UCGS meeti ng schedule : M. Kyle announced that the schedule originally distributed via email was incorrect. A new schedule was passed out on gold paper. She also noted that Microsoft Outlook meeting invitations are forthcoming. 416.1 Approval of minutes: R. Meier mo ved to approve (2/L. Bennett) the minutes from meeting #415, held May 3, 2013. The motion was carried by voice vote. 416.2.4 Graduate School Calendar : The 2013 -2014 Graduate School calendar is now available online. 416.2.5 Graduate School Memo re: Curri cular Revisions : K. Weddle -West announced that all curricular revisions are due in hardcopy and electronically to M. Kyle on October 18 , 2013. 416.2.6 Enrollment Update: K. Weddle -West provided the council with an update regarding enrollment. She noted th at like the rest of the nation, our numbers are down. We will simply need to continue to recruit more and increase admissions. We must also continue to think outside of the box, especially to help students who want to come to school but cannot pay. D. Irwi n noted that the University College took measures to address the decline in non -degree students. For instance, the University College proposed a new Graduate Certificate Program in Liberal Studies. Had it been approved in a timely manner we very well may h ave surpassed 4,000 students. 416.2.8 Clarifying thesis/dissertation proposal defense forms and thesis/dissertation final defense results form : K. Weddle -West informed the council that the wrong forms are being signed and submitted. Please make sure stude nts and faculty understand the difference. 416.2.9 Presidential Tuition Service Scholarship update : K. Weddle -West thanked the council for their assistance awarding the new Presidential tuition Service Scholarships . She noted that the scholarship will be available next year. 416.2.11 Termination Form: the termination form has been created and posted online under the Forms page of the Graduate School website. Please make sure faculty are aware of the form and the appropriate procedures. 416.5.2 Request to see letters of offer for Graduate Assis tantships and letters of denial: K. Weddle -West explained that Provost Rudd has requested a standard letter of offer and denial for Graduate Assistantships. He does not want much variability in the letter of offer. A standard letter will also help us be more consistent. K. Weddle -West will be developing this standard letter and will present the template to the council to be approved. 3 416.5.3 Graduate Assistantships: New IPEDS categories : K. Weddle -West informed the council that she will share this information with them at our next meeting. 416.5.4 Enforcement of access to Banner and Matrix : K. Weddle -West stated that because of legal reasons we must enforce access to Banner and Matric. Due to the need for a general training session for New Graduate Coordi nators and administrative staff we will be hosting these training sessions in the near future. 416.5.5 Penalty fee for late processing of intent to graduate and candidacy forms update : K. Weddle -West reminded the council that we are proposing a fee of $400.00 for forms submitted within 7 business days of the deadline, and a fee of $500.00 for forms submitted after 8 -10 business days. She asked the council to review the draft of the form and bring changes and recommendations to the next meeting when we will vote on it. 416.2.10 Graduation Requirements and Policies : K. Weddle -West reviewed the various graduate requirements and policies in place at the Graduate School. She discussed such items as time limitations, credit -by-exam, course validation, experiential learning, withdrawal from Graduate School, repetition of courses, and the plus/minus grading scale. K. Weddle -West informed the council that the first Graduate Student Association meeting will be held September 20, 2013 at 1:30 p.m. in the University Center Fountain Room. There being no further business to discuss the meeting was adjourned at 3:23 p.m.