#http://www.memphis.edu/advising/advisors/rodpfaq.php
RODP FAQs - Advising - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Academic Advising About Find My Advisor Students Parents Advisors Contact Us For Advisors Professional Development Advising Blog Academic Advising Network Advising Development Advising Roles and Respnsibilities Distinguished Advising Award Learning Curve NACADA First Generation Faculty Advocates Resources Academic Calender Advising Handbook Advisor Directory Banner Guides &amp; Aids Campus Resources for Advisors Early Intervention Forms NSO Dashboard Instructions Registration Error Messages Registration Quick Guide UMdegree Advisor's Authorization Transfer Policy FAQ Getting Started for Advisors Banner Forms I Need Help With... Procedure for Advising Advisor's Quick Guide RODP FAQs Student Directory Handout UMdegree Instructions Home Advising For Adviosrs RODP FAQs RODP FAQs Special Rules for RODP and UMonline Courses RODP online assistance Students and faculty seeking general information about RODP online degrees, courses, and student affairs should email Mary Crites at mewart@memphis.edu . Students in need of academic advising should consult their advisor regarding degree requirements and how online courses may apply. UofM Online assistance The Center for Innovative Teaching and Learning can help students with general questions and refer them to the appropriate UofM Online degree contact for degree information and assistance resolving issues with UofM Online courses. 901-678-2783, Identifying Online Course Equivalents SCADETL - This Banner form identifies cataloged course equivalents. This is especially helpful for RODP online courses. You can use this form to verify if a campus course is equivalent to an RODP online course and prevent students from registering for an RODP online course that may replace the grade of another course they have already completed. RODP Online Course Permits University College issues permits for most RODP courses through one of the following links. (RODP courses can be identified by sections R01, R25, and R20.) Request a permit for an RODP course. Request a permit for a PRST course or COMM 7110. Students requesting RODP online course permits for graduate level nursing (NURS), or graduate level education (ASTL, TEAE, TELC) should be directed to the registrars website for department contact information. UofM Online Course Permits University College office does not issue permits for UofM Online courses. UofM Online courses are controlled by the academic department for the subject and are commonly identifed by sections 410, or M50, but may also be hybrid courses. Students should be directed to the registrars website for department contact information. Late Registration For RODP Courses All students requesting to register for an RODP online course after late registration must seek special approval by emailing Mary Crites at mewart@memphis.edu RODP Courses - No Audit RODP online courses are not available for audit. All other online courses may be requested for audit through the regular process as outlined at this site: Immunization Exemption Students who are only taking online courses and at full time status can request an exemption of the MMR and Varicella (Chicken Pox) immunization requirements. They must complete an exemption form and fax it to the Registrar’s Office at (901) 678-1425. eRate Fee For Out-of-State Students eRate is available to students who enroll at TBR institutions, who are classified as non-residents of Tennessee, and who enrolled exclusively in online courses (instructional method of Web). To qualify for an eRate, students must be verified as an online out-of-state student enrolled exclusively in courses delivered online (instructional method of Web). Retroactive Late Withdrawals Students who need help contacting non-UofM faculty for RODP course retroactive withdrawals should email Mary Crites at mewart@memphis.edu . Students completing a late withdrawal during the current semester will still have access to the course and can email instructors through course email. RODP Online Course Grade Appeals Students who intend to file a grade dispute or appeal for an RODP course must submit their request by email to Mary Crites at mewart@memphis.edu . . RODP courses follow the same appeal procedures as outlined in the UofM catalog. UofMOnline Course Grade Appeals UofM Online courses grade appeals should be handled according to the UofM undergraduate or graduate grade appeal policy. For Advisors Professional Development Advising Blog Academic Advising Network Advising Development Advising Roles and Respnsibilities Distinguished Advising Award Learning Curve NACADA First Generation Faculty Advocates Resources Academic Calender Advising Handbook Advisor Directory Banner Guides &amp; Aids Campus Resources for Advisors Early Intervention Forms NSO Dashboard Instructions Registration Error Messages Registration Quick Guide UMdegree Advisor's Authorization Transfer Policy FAQ Getting Started for Advisors Banner Forms I Need Help With... Procedure for Advising Advisor's Quick Guide RODP FAQs Student Directory Handout UMdegree Instructions UMdegree Worksheet and planner for information about academic requirements. Courses to Consider Course recommendations just for you! Appointment - Plus Make your advising appointment today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/7/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .