#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2012-2013/0513min.pdf
1 UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES MINUTES, Meeting 415 May 3, 2013 2:00 p.m., University Center Bluff Room PRESENT: L. Bennett (CAS), G . Emmert (CHEM), J. Dhaliwal (FCBE), J . Amis (MGMT), M . Logan (CCFA), B . McKeown (ART), E . Rakow (CEHHS), J . Byford (ICL), L . Weiss (HSS), D . Hochstein (ENGINEERING), A . Curry (BIOMED ), D . Wark (SCSD), G . Shiba (NURSING), D . Irwin (UNIV . COLLEGE), D . Gentry ( SPH ), R. Evans (FACULTY SENATE) , K. Weddle -West (Graduate School) , J. Brownlee (Graduate School) , L. Griggs (Graduate Admissions) ABSENT: M. B. Mader (PHIL), W. Rushing (SOCI), B. Kettinger (MIS ; proxy=J. Dhaliwal ), T. Shiu (MUSIC ; proxy=M. Logan ), R. Meier (CIVL ; proxy=A. Curry ), N. Henry (GSA), B. Park (Library) GUESTS: K. We ddle -West opened the m eeting at 2:07 p.m. when a quorum was attained. 415.1: L. Bennett moved (2/E. Rakow) to approve the minutes from meeting #414, held April 5, 2013 . The motion was carried by voice vote. 415.2 Announcements 415.2.1: K. Weddle -West reviewed the finalized centralized procedures for terminating students based on two consecutive semesters on academic probation, second failure on comprehensive examinations, or program -specific retention policies . This information is to be published in the Graduate Catalog under Academic Regulations. E. Rakow moved (2/G. Shiba) to approve the procedures as written. The motion was carried by voice vote. 415.2.2: K. Weddle -West noted that faculty admissions decisions are often submitted by administrative associates or graduate coor dinators. Therefore, we need to ensure those handling such decisions are properly trained to do so. Graduate Admissions Supervisor, Lemmie Griggs, has offered to come visit each College/School to answer any questions there might be about the admissions dec isions submission process so that it does as smoothly as possible. The Colleges/Schools can contact Lemmie anytime to arrange this training. K. Weddle -West asked that the council members please encourage their administrative staff to invite Lemmie over to talk about admissions procedures and all 2 related information. She also noted that an Admissions Open House is being planned for the beginning of the fall semester. More information will provided once available. 415.2.3: The Teaching Effectiveness Workshop for Graduate Teaching Assistants will be held on August 22 nd , 2013 from 8:00 a.m. until 12:00 p.m. in the Rose theatre Entertainment Lobby . A tentative agenda was distributed to the council in both hardcopy and electronically. K. Weddle -West encouraged th e council members to distribute this information to all of their graduate teaching assistants. 415.2.4: The New Graduate Student Orientation will be held on August 23 rd, 2013 from 10:00 a.m. until 1:30 p.m. in the University Center ballroom . A tentative ag enda was distributed to the council in hardcopy and electronically. K. Weddle -West encouraged the council to share this information with their students. 415.5 New Business 415.5.1: K. Weddle -West proposed that a penalty fee be implemented for the failure to submit intent to graduate or candidacy forms on time. The idea is supported by Provost Rudd. However, before the fee can be implemented a proposal must be submitted and approved by TBR. After a short discussion L. Bennett moved (2/G. Emmert) in favor of approving the development of a proposal for a fee for the late processing of intent to graduate or candidacy forms . To motion was carried by voice vote. 415.5.2: K. Weddle -West announced that we have had 1,700 hits on the website advertising the Presiden tial Tuition Service Scholarship, including a lot of out -of-state applicants. She noted that the Presidential Tuition Service Scholarship may be awarded to out -of-state students. In such cases the in -state tuition rate would be applied to the out -of-state tuition balance. K. Weddle -West acknowledged that we have had a very busy year and thanked the council for their help, diligence, and hard work. There being no further business to discuss the meeting was adjourned at 2:35 p.m.