#http://www.memphis.edu/theatre/currentseason/
Current Season - Theatre &amp; Dance - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Theatre &amp; Dance About Academic Programs Admissions People Production Archives Purchase Tickets Current Season Purchase Tickets Next UP! Faculty, Staff FREE Night at the Theatre Home Theatre &amp; Dance season 2015-2016 Theatre &amp; Dance Season U of M students receive one FREE ticket to all productions Tickets: $15 for area students and senior citizens, $20 for adults Next to Normal Music by Tom Kitt Book and Lyrics by Brian Yorkey October 1-3 and 8-10, 2015 @ 7:30pm Mainstage Theatre l Directed by Swaine Kaui A Pulitzer Prize and Tony Award winning pop rock musical with soul, Next to Normal is a poignant and powerful story of loss and the struggle to survive. Driven by an incredible score, the riveting story unmasks the seemingly normal façade of a suburban family revealing a not so normal life. At the center of the family is a mother who struggles with mental illness. The effects of her illness and treatment take a great toll on the family. Next to Normal vividly dramatizes the lengths two parents will go to keep themselves "sane" and their family intact – taking audiences on an emotional journey into the minds and hearts of each character, presenting their family's story with love, sympathy and heart. The School for Scandal By Richard Brinsley Sheridan Adapted by Stephen Hancock November 5-7 and 12-14, 2015 @ 7:30pm Mainstage Theatre l Directed by Stephen Hancock Oh, what a tangled web we weave... deception, double-dealing and backstabbing! Delighting in the trials and tribulations of others and masquerading behind the veneer of polite society, malicious characters aptly named Lady Sneerwell, Sir Joseph Surface, Lady Candour, Sir Benjamin Backbite and Snake trade gossip and ruin reputations for sport. Having amused audiences for over two hundred years, we see that human nature doesn't change: the foibles and desires on display in this 18th century classic are all too recognizable in today's social media, reality T.V. driven society making Sheridan's satirical morality play a timeless masterpiece. New Voices Dance Concert November 13-15, 2015 @ 7:30pm CFA – 124 (limited space. Please reserve your seating beginning Monday, November 9) Well By Lisa Kron November 20 and 21, 2015 @ 7:30pm November 21, 2015 @ 2:00pm Studio Theatre l Directed by Jazzy Miller Dynamic and poignant, this play explores the many levels and meanings of illness and wellness – in the social and cosmic sense; of mind, body, spirit, community and family. Incredibly funny and rich with emotion Well walks a fine line dealing with issues of healthcare, racism and relationships reminding us that there are always two sides to the story. Woven into the fabric of the play is the real-life racial integration of West End neighborhood in Lansing Michigan in the late 60's comparing the dynamics of the time to our world today. Oklahoma! Book and Lyrics by Oscar Hammerstein Music by Richard Rogers Feb 18-20 and 25-27, 2016 Mainstage Theatre l Directed by Jacob Allen Rodgers &amp; Hammerstein's timeless classic tells the story of a cowboy and a hired hand competing for the hand of a beautiful lady. Oklahoma! is a sure-fire good ol' time filled to the brim with laughter, tears, and everything in between. The music and lyrics have stood the test to time with memorable songs like "Oh What a Beautiful Morning", "People Will Say We're in Love", "I Can't Say No", "Oklahoma!" and many more, making this a musical a great enjoyable show for everyone! Momentum Dance Concert April 8 and 9, 2016 @ 7:30pm April 10, 2016 @ 2:00pm The Rose Theatre A Flea In Her Ear By Georges Feydeau Adapted by David Ives April 14-16 and 21-23, 2016 Mainstage Theatre l Directed by Meredith Melville One the greatest of French farces, perhaps the greatest farce ever written – A Flea In Her Ear hilariously stumbles upon cases of mis-identity, which lead to sexual tromps, drunken bellboys, and a gun wielding Spaniard; all centered around The Frisky Puss Hotel. Come see what it takes to watch the Chandebise's unravel and re-piece together this ridiculous and fun plot! Winner for best adaptation, "Ives' adaptation maintains the original's dazzling plot while communicating Feydeau's playful use of language to an American audience." — BackStage. Current Season Purchase Tickets Next UP! Faculty, Staff FREE Night at the Theatre 2015-2016 Season Join us for our 2015-2016 Theatre &amp; Dance Season In the News Cassie Beck (BFA '99) talks about her role in the Roundabout Theatre production of The Humans. Watch Me – Theatre Video Take a closer look at the UofM Department of Theatre &amp; Dance Anthony Pellecchia Meet our new lighting and sound designer Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .