#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2011-2012/1111min.pdf
1 UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES MINUTES, Meeting 404 November 4, 2011 2:00 p.m., 177b Administration Building PRESENT: L. Bennett (CAS), G. Emmert (CHEM), W. Rushing (SOCIO), J. Dhaliwal (FCBE), J. Amis (M GMT), M. Logan (CCFA), B. McKeown (ART), J. Page (MUSIC) , K. Meyer ( LEAD ), L. Weiss (HSS), D. Hochstein (ENGR), A. Curry (BIOMED ENGR), R. Meier (CIVIL), D. Wark (AUSP) , G. Shiba (NURSING), D. Irwin (UNV. COLLEGE), D. Gentry (SPH), A. Mount (GSA), L. Pivnick (Faculty Senate), J. Brownlee (Graduate School), L. Griggs (Graduate Admissions ) ABSENT: K. Weddle -West (Graduate School), J. Phillips (ENGL), B. Kettinger (MIS), E. Rakow (COE), B. Park (Library) GUESTS: Melanie Murray (University of Memphis Legal C ounsel) L. Bennett opened the meeting at 2:04 p.m. when a quorum was attained. 404.1 Approval of minutes from meeting #40 3 - L. Weiss moved (2/ K. Meyer ) to approve the minutes from the meeting held on October 7 , 2011. The motion was passed by voice vote. 404.2 Announcements: 404.2.1 GRE Revised Test Preparation Workshop - Thank you all for your help making this event a success! 404.2.3 Revised GRE Test Preparation Workshop, Personal Potential Index (PPI), and TOEFL PowerPoint Presentations Œ All three presentations will be posted on the Graduate School website. L. Bennett noted that new GRE scores are now available, as well as a concordance table to help interpret the new scoring system. M. Kyle will distribut e the concordance table via email after the meeting concludes. 404.2.4 Banner generated Letters of Denial are being created Œ L. Bennett asked that the members continue to send departmental letters if they have not done so already . This practice varies gre atly among individual departments, with some sending denial letters while other departments do not. Banner currently sends letter s of admittance to all students. W e are simply duplicating this proce ss for students who were denied. 404.2.2 Gainful Employme nt Report for Graduate Certificates status update - L. Bennett stated that the Graduate School does not need anything from the UCGS members in order to complete this report. A committee composed of staff from IR, Financial Aid, IT, Bursar and Graduate Scho ol are completing the report which is due to the Federal Government November 15 th. K. Weddle -West will share with the UCGS the completed report at the December UCGS meeting. 2 404.5.1 Legal issues : Melanie Murry, University of Memphis Legal Counsel Œ Ms. Murry attended this meeting in order to present the council with updated information regarding legal issues. She intended to show the council members a PowerPoint presentation containing this information, but due to technical difficulties the presen tation could not be displayed. While waiting for assistance with the computer, Ms. Murry joined the council members at the table to discuss which legal issues are of most concern to the group. First, she provided a brief overview of the Office of Legal Cou nsel and how it functions to serve the university , noting that her office is working hard to improve their relationship with the faculty and staff. Then she pointed out that , unlike most other academic institutions, we are doing a good job communicating wi th one another and between departments in regards to legal issues. She emphasized the importance this point by citing several examples of the serious consequences other institutions have encountered as a result of failing to communicate. Ms. Murry then informed the council that the Behavior Intervention Team (BIT) is being restructured . The reorganized committee will be better able to serve the university, provid ing more guidance to faculty and staff dealing with legal matters . The BIT also plans to laun ch a media campaign to increase our awar eness of the resources made available by the Office of Legal Counsel . Ms. Murry stressed that whenever someone has a question or concern about a legal issue they should call or email her, rather than scheduling an appointment with her office. Once she finished conveying all of this information , Ms. Murry answered the many varied questions from the council members as best as she could . After this extensive conversation Ms. Murry agreed to return for another meeting wit h more information related to the various issues brought up during their discussion. In the meantime, the council members should send M. Kyle (marykyle@memphis.edu ) any additional questions or topics they would l ike Ms. Murry to address during her next visit. 404.3 Discussion Items: NONE 404.4 Old Business: 404.4.1 Status of Professional Science Master™s (PSM) degree Œ L. Bennett informed the council that the Computer Science department is moving forward with a PSM degree. Also, some of the other programs in Arts and Sciences plan to submit proposals as well. She noted that the proposals will be for new concentrations, r ather than new degree programs. The College of Arts and Sciences is working closely with the College of Business in developing the proposals in order to fully address the business aspect of the PSM programs. J. Dhaliwal requested that all departments wanti ng to offer a PSM degree contact the College of Business as soon as possible so they can work together incorporating Business courses into the program. 404.4.2 Status of Accelerated Bachelors and Master™s degrees Œ L. Bennett notified the council that we are still i n the process of developing accelerated Bachelors and Masters degrees and are making good progress. However, there are a few questions remaining that need to be clarified before submitting to TBR any proposals for ABM degrees . The departments that want to offer accelerated programs should continue to develop their proposals while the Dr. Weddle -West is working to resolve these issues. We will continue to discuss this issue as more information becomes available. 3 404.5 New Business: 404.5.2 C ompendium of UCGS policy revisions for 2010 -2011 Œ Hardcopies of this document were distributed to the council members at the beginning of this meeting. L. Bennett explained that the handout contains all of the policy decisions made by the UCGS during the last academic year. M. Kyle will distribute an electronic copy of the document after the meeting adjourns. 404.5.3 Vote on policy regarding transfer of all graduate certificate credit Œ L. Bennett informed the council of an issue pertaining to transfer cr edit that recently arose in the Graduate School. The Transfer of credit issue is regarding coursework taken as part of a graduate certificate program at another institution being applied towards a masters or doctoral degree at the University of Memphis . There isn™t a clear policy statement about whether or not this sort of credit transfer is allowed. The College Directors have discussed this matter at length and concluded this issue should be handled on a case -by-case basis , due to the differences between each graduate certificate program . The various aspects of this issue were discussed at length among the council members. J. Dhaliwal suggested (2/L. Weiss and A. Curry) the issue be tabled and the remaining council members a greed. There being no further business to address L. Bennett adjourned the meeting at 3:10 p.m. Minutes respectfully submitted by Mary Kyle.