#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2011-2012/1011min.pdf
1 UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES MINUTES, Meeting 403 October 7 th, 2011 12:00 p.m., 261 University Center PRESENT: L. Bennett (CAS), G. Emmert (CHEM), J. Phillips (ENGL) , W. Rushing (SOCIO) , J. Dhaliwal (FCBE), D. Sherrell (MKTG), B. McKeown (ART), J. Page (MUSIC) , E. Rakow (COE), K. Meyer ( LEAD), L. Weiss (HSS), D. Hochstein (ENGR), A. Curry (BIOMED ENGR), R. Meier (CIVIL), D. Wark (AUSP) , D. Irwin (UNV. COLLEGE), D. Gentry (SPH), A. Mount (GSA), L. Pivnick (Faculty Senate), K. Weddle -West (Graduat e School), J. Brownlee (Graduate School), L. Griggs (Graduate Admissions ) ABSENT: M. Logan (CCFA), G. Shiba (NURSING) , B. Park (Library) GUESTS: Jacqueline Reid (Research Support Services), Linda Finch (Nursing) K. Weddle -West opened the meeting at 12:10 p.m. when a quorum was attained. 403.1 Approval of minutes from meeting #402 - L. Bennett moved (2/E. Rakow) to approve the minutes from the meeting held on September 2, 2011. The motion was passed by voice vote. 403.3.1 GRE Revised General Test Preparation Workshop for students - K. Weddle -West announced that the Graduate School will be hosting a GRE re vised test preparation workshop on Thursday, October 27 th, 2011, 11:30 -1:00 p.m. in the Rose Theatre . This free workshop will be conducted by Ms. Michelle Hampton from the Educational Testing Services (ETS) . It is important that students are aware of the new features in the revised test and how they function. K. Weddle -West asked the council members to announce this event to their students, faculty , and staff. 403.3.2 ETS Personal Potential Index Information for faculty - On Thursday, October 27 th, 2011, from 11:00 Œ 11:30 a.m. in the Rose Theatre Entertainment Lobby , Ms. Michelle Ham pton, will be conducting a brief informational session about the new Personal Potential Index (PPI). All faculty and staff are encouraged to attend this presentation in order to familiarize themselves with this new feature included in the Revised GRE. The PPI is provided free of charge and can serve as a valuable tool when evaluating applicants. Any department interested in learning how to utilize the PPI should send a representative to this short informational session. Flyers for this event will be distributed electronically to all council members. 403.3 .3 Curricular R evisions deadline reminder Œ K. Weddle -West reminded the council that the deadline for submitting curricular changes is October 21, 2011 . 2 403.3.4 Review program deadlines Œ K. Weddle -West asked each council member to review the information provided on lis t of specific program deadlines distributed at this meeting. The list, which is posted on the graduate school website, needs to be updated in order to ensure the information is up to date. Any corrections or additions to this list should be sent to Mary Ky le (marykyle@memphis.edu). 403.3.5 Graduate Student Association Meeting, Need for Re presentative Leadership Council - K. Weddle -West introduced the president of the Graduate Student Association (GAS), Alaina Mount, to council members. Ms. Mount informed th e council that the first GSA meeting will be held on October 13 th, 2011 from 2:00 Œ 3:00 p.m. in the University Center River Room. She noted that the GSA is requesting nominations for potential GSA Leadership Council members. All suggestions should be sent to M. Kyle ( marykyle@memphis.edu ) or A. Mount (amount@memphis.edu ). 403.3.6 Dr. Weddle -West appointed to TOEFL board - K. Weddle -West announced that she has been appointed to serve on the TOEFL board. 403.3.8 Following protocol for dismissal of students Œ K. Weddle -West reminded the council members of the current protocol in place when dealing with cases of misconduct. It is important that faculty report such issues to the Office of Judicial and Ethical Affairs Academics Integrity Committee. All faculty members should be instructed to follow protocol as written in the Graduate Catalog when handling any issue. 403.2 New IRB protocols and regulations Œ Research Support Services Contracts and Security Officer , Ms. Jacqueline Reid , attended our meeting in or der to present the council with an overview of recent changes to the Institutional review Board ( IRB ) protocols and regulations. She provided the council with a PowerPoint presentation outlining the changes made to the IRB over the past 18 months, as well as the changes to be implemented in the next 18 months. Ms. Reid informed the council members that Research and Support Services is trying to raise awareness of the IRB on campus. One of the most important points from Ms. Reid™s presentation for the counci l members to take back to their faculty, staff, and students is the new policy in place regarding CITI training. The new policy mandates that all students must complete four hours of CITI training before they can be approved to conduct research involving h uman subjects. More information regarding this policy can be found by visiting the IRB website at the following URL address: . After finishing her presentation, Ms. Reid answered questions from the council. She stressed that when in doubt about anything IRB related they should contact the IRB office. Ms. Reid also informed the council tha t the IRB committee is searching for new board members and asked that anyone inte rested in serving contact her at 901-678-2533 or jreid@memphis.edu . J. Page was nominated to serve on the committee as a College of Communication and Fine Arts representative, which she gladly agreed to do. Ms. Reid noted that t he IRB committee also needs volunteers to serve as consultants in case an issue occurs in an area where none of the IRB members have expertise. Anyone interested in doing so should also contact Ms. Reid ( 901-678-2533 or jreid@memphis.edu ). 3 403.3.7 Update on Matrix and new GRE scores Œ K. Weddle -West informed the council that J. Brownlee and L. Griggs are currently preparing for the transition to the new GRE score system in Matrix. These new scores will be available beginning in November 2011. 403.5.1 Continue discussion of accelerated Bachelor™s & Master™s degrees Œ K. Weddle -West stated that we are still pursuing this issue. She reiterated the many benefits of offering such accelerated programs and urged the council members to discuss this idea with their individual departments. 403.6.3 Professional Science Master™ s degree proposals Œ K. Weddle -West said that we will be coming forth with some new concentrations focused on the more business oriented areas of the hard sciences. Dr. Paula Short wants to submit these proposals collectively. More information will be dist ributed once it is available. 403.5.2 Status of Gainful Employment Report for Graduate Certificates Œ K. Weddle -West informed the council that we are making good progress gathering data and preparing the Gainful Employment Report. This federally mandated report is due in mid -November 2011. 403.6.1 Program Integrity Student Complaint form revision (from TBR) Œ K. Weddle -West reminded the council to review this document so that they are aware of the current procedures in place when addressing issues of prog ram intergrity. 403.6.2 Banner Generated Admissions & Denial of Admissions Letters Œ K. Weddle -West stated that we are s till determining which program send certain communications, specifically letters of acceptance or denial. She asked the council to continue to discuss this issue with your individual departments in order to identify the programs that send acceptance and/or denial letters. Also, please send copies of thes e communications to M. Kyle (marykyle@ memphis.edu ). There being no further business to address K. Weddle -West ad journed the meeting at 1 :28p.m. Minutes respectfully submitted by Mary Kyle.