#http://www.memphis.edu/rsp/vice_president/research_foundation.php
Research Foundation - RSP - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Division of Research and Sponsored Programs Vice President Compliance Sponsored Programs Research Development Vice President for Research Research Development Research Foundation Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Integrated Microscopy Center High Performance Computing Internal Programs Home RSP Vice President for Research Research Foundation University of Memphis Research Foundation The University of Memphis Research Foundation (Research Foundation), a public benefit company, was established on June 16, 2006. The Research Foundation was formed to promote the objectives of The University of Memphis (University) by providing higher education, conducting research, providing public service, and assisting in economic development in Tennessee. In furtherance of these objectives, the Research Foundation will facilitate acquisition of sponsored research funds from public and private sources, solicit donations to support activities of the Research Foundation, pursue appropriate legal protection for proprietary technologies developed through University research, hold and manage intellectual property assets on behalf of the University, and promote commercialization of research products and transfer of University technologies to appropriate partners for their further development and commercialization. In accordance with the research Foundation's charter, the Research Foundation is authorized to perform similar activities in support of other institutions within the Tennessee Board of Regents (TBR) System. The Research Foundation is organized exclusively for charitable, scientific, literary and educational purposes, including for such purposes, the making of distributions to organizations that qualify as exempt organizations under Section 501(c)(3) of the code, as amended, or corresponding section of any future federal tax code; and , to the extent consistent with the provisions herein, to do any and all things allowable under the Tennessee Nonprofit corporation Act. The corporation is organized to operate for the benefit of the University of Memphis, which is owned and operated by a government unit, as an organization described in Sections 170(b)(1)(A)(iv) and 509(a)(1) of the Code, but only to the extent that such functions and purposes are exclusively for charitable, scientific, literary and educational purposes. Specifically, the Research Foundation is organized to benefit the University of Memphis, a public institution of higher education, for the following purposes: developing and administering sponsored research and other projects conducted by the faculty and staff of the University of Memphis; coordinating a sponsored research program for the University of Memphis; encouraging, promoting, and aiding in the fulfillment of the educational, service and research functions of the University of Memphis; using and applying the whole or any part of the income and principal received exclusively for charitable, educational, and scholarly purposes; and encouraging, promoting and aiding the transfer of technologies generated in the course of research conducted by University of Memphis faculty, staff and students. The Research Foundation's policies and procedures must be followed to maintain the highest integrity and to ensure conformance with the Research Foundation's Charter and Bylaws. The 2014 board members are listed here. View the 2012 financial statements here. Vice President for Research Research Development Research Foundation Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Integrated Microscopy Center High Performance Computing Internal Programs Forms Forms and other useful information Staff Staff of Research and Sponsored Programs and Grants Accounting Resources Institutional information and resources for the researcher Research Portal Research Portal Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .