#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2011-2012/0312min.pdf
1 UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES MINUTES, Meeting 407 March 2 , 2012 2:00 p.m., 340B University Center PRESENT: L. Bennett (CAS) , G. Emmert (CHEM), J. Phillips (ENGL), W. Rushing (SOCIO), Q. Chu (FIR ), M. Logan (CCFA), B. McKeown (ART), L. Weiss (HSS), D. Hochstein (ENGR), R. Meier (CIVIL), D. Wark (AUSP) , D. Irwin (UNV. COLLEGE ), D. Gentry (SPH), B. Park (Library), L. Pivnick (Faculty Senate), J. Brownlee (Graduate School), L. Griggs (Graduate Admissions ), K. Weddle -West (Graduate School) ABSENT: J. Dhaliwal (FCBE ), B. Kettinger (MIS), J. Amis (MGMT; on sabbatical, proxy=Q. Chu) , J. Page (MUSIC), E. Rakow (COE ; proxy=L. Weiss ), K. Meyer (LEAD ; proxy=L. Weiss ), A. Curry (BIOMED ENGR ; proxy=R. Meier ), G. Shiba (NURSING; proxy=D. Gentry ), A. Mount (GSA), GUESTS: Robert Koch, representative for the School of Nursing in Gayle Shiba™s absence K. Weddle -West opened the meeting at 2:0 2 p.m. when a quorum was attained. 407.1 Approval of minutes: R. Meier moved (2/ D. Wark ) to approve the minutes from meetin g #40 6, held on February 3, 2012 . The motion was passed by voice vote. 407.2 Announcements: 407.2 .1 Œ Process for requesting centralized admissions systems or program -specific electronic admissions software - K. Weddle -West reviewed the process in place for the search for electronic admissions software. She directed the council members to inform their faculty members about the Enterprise Systems Advisory Committee (ESAC), which is the starting point for all software requests. More information about ESAC can be found on the IT website, . In regards to the request for a lett er of recommendation electronic system, we are first looking into a university -wide system at the Provost™s instruction. Then we will investigate program -specific systems. We have just begun the search process and will provide progress updates as they beco me available. 407.2.2 - Status of Graduate Admissions Counselor search Œ K. Weddle -West announced that seven wonderful candidates have been interviewed for the Graduate Admissions Counselor position. The position opened when Lemmie Griggs was promoted to Graduate Admissions Supervisor . A final decision is expected to be made in two weeks. 2 407.2.3 - Graduate Admissions office is moving to Wilder Tower 200 - The Academic Retention offices were empty so the Graduate Admissions staff is moving into this space. The new space has many advantages, such as more offices, a front desk with clear signage, and it is all enclosed and therefore easier to find. K. Weddle -West stated that they want to have an open house once the new offices are completely ready. 407.2.4 - Graduate Recruitment Fair Œ K. Weddle -West announced that the Graduate School Recruitment Fair will be on March 19 th, from 1:00p.m. to 6:00 p.m. in the Ros e Theatre. This year the fair will be extended one hour longer to accommodate prospective students with fulltime jobs. During the fair there will be two f ree GRE® Workshops at 2:00 & 5:00 p.m. presented by ETS Global Client Relations Liaison, Michelle Hamp ton . We expect these free workshops will help attract more people to the event. K. Weddle -West asked the council members to continue promoting the Recruitment Fair, noting that event flyers will be distributed as soon as they are available. She reminded th e council that each department needs to provide the names of the faculty members and graduate students that will be staffing their table. Please send these names to M. Kyle (marykyle@memphis.edu ) by March 12, 2012. 407.2.5 - Graduate Ed ucation Week in Tennessee - Events will be held April 2 Œ 6, 2012 . Brief summaries of each event were provided. The Student Research Forum will be held on April 2, 2012. Graduate student Mark Meyer will present his biomedical research on epilepsy and brain functioning during the annual awards luncheon. Please note that we are still asking for volunteers to serve as judges. There will be a high volume of student participants this year and each participant needs 3 judges to review their work. Therefore we will need a lot of judges to ensure each student has 3 reviewers . Please send the names of all judges to J. Brownlee ( jbrownlee@memphis.edu ). The Presentation at Legislative Plaza will be on April 4, 2012 in Nashville, Tennessee. Aury Kangelos , a second year MRP student, will attend to present research on the food desert issue and the Healthy Foods Express Bus Project. He will present his research in the legislative plaza and later to the Shelby County Delegation during our annual luncheon. K. Weddle -West asked that the council members send any program highlights that might be of interest to the legislators to their college directors. The College Directors will send these brief statements to K. Weddle -West. On April 5, 2012 the Graduate Student Association will host a panel on Developing Interviewing Skills, Curriculum Vitae and Resumes with presenter Clay Woemmel, from the Career Services Office. This event will be from 12:30 Œ 2:00 p.m. in the University Center and food will be provided. Please encourage your students to attend. 407.2.6 - Graduate School policy for terminating students Œ K. Weddle -West reminded the council of the current policy in place regarding the te rmination of a student. It is crucial that everyone follow the correct protocol when dealing with such issues. K. Weddle -West asked the council members to remind their faculty about the correct 3 process. She emphasized that whenever there is any doubt abou t the proper protocol to follow the faculty member should contact Dr. Weddle -West directly. 407.3 Discussion Items : 407.3.1 - TBR approval for dual -counting hours in Accelerated Bachelor ™s and Master™s Degree program Œ K. Weddle -West informed the council of TBR™s decisions. She also stated that proposals for such ABM programs will have to go through the undergraduate council & the graduate council before being sent to TBR for review. These proposals will not be for new academic programs, but rather for a deli very modification of a program. K. Weddle -West is currently meeting with various departments , such as the Scholarship and Financial Aid Offices, to work out all of the remaining kinks in the process. She will provide an update on these issues at the next UCGS meeting. M. Kyle noted that the URL address es provided in this agenda item are for specific pages of importance on the TBR website . She encouraged the council members to bookmark these webpages for future referen ce. The forms required for all academic proposals are located at the first URL address. The following two contain information on academic policies and guideline. It is important to reference these webpages when working on any academic proposal. 1) , 2) , and 3) . 407.3.2 - Electronic Thesis/Dissertations (ETDs) Corrections Agreement F orm Œ This form was drafted to help resolve the issue of students failing to m ake all of the corrections to their thesis/dissertation as identified by Graduate Ana lyst, Michelle Stout. Students will have to sign this agreement form when they pick up their corrected document. B. Park suggested one minor revision, which is to add Mich elle Stout™s job title to the form. All agreed this revision should be made to the form. Then R. Meier moved (2/ B. Park) to approve the proposed agreement form with the previously discussed revision. The motion was carried by voice vote. There being no further business to address K. Weddle -West adjourned the meeting at 2:48 p.m. Minutes respectfully submitted by Mary Kyle.