#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2011-2012/0512min.pdf
1 UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES MINUTES, Meeting 40 8 May 4 , 2012 2:00 p.m., 340B University Center PRESENT: L. Bennett (CAS), G. Emmert (CHEM), J. Phillips (ENGL), W. Rushing (SOCIO), B. Kettinger (MIS), Q. Chu (FIR), M. Logan (CCFA), B. McKeown (ART), J. Page (MUSIC), E. Rakow (COE), K. Meyer (LEAD), L. Weiss (HSS), D. Hochstein (ENGR), A. Curry (BIOMED ENGR), R. Meier (CIVIL), D. Wark (AUSP), D. Irwin (UNV. COLLEGE ), D. Gentry (SPH), B. Park (Library), L. Pivnick (Faculty Senate), J. Brownlee ( Graduate School), L. Griggs (Graduate Admissions) , A. Mount (GSA), K. Weddle -West (Graduate School) ABSENT: J. Dhaliwal (FCBE ), J. Amis (MGMT; on sabbatical, proxy=Q. Chu), G. Shiba (NURSING; proxy=D. Gentry) GUESTS: Ms. Bridgette Decent, Office of In stitutional Research ; Dr. Matthias Kaelberer , Political Science K. Weddle -West opened the meeting at 2:0 3 p.m. when a quorum was attained. 408.1 Approval of minutes: L. Bennett moved (2/ M. Logan ) to approve the minutes from meeting #40 7, held on March 2, 2012 . The motion was passed by voice vote. 408.2 Announcements: 408.2.2: K. Weddle -West informed the council that the 2012 -2013 Graduate Catalog has been posted online . 408.2.3: K. Weddle -West announced that the vacant Graduate Admissions Counselor position has been filed by Ms. Michelle Nkadi . She noted that the Graduate Admissions Office will host an open house sometime in the near future. 408.2.4: The New Graduate Student Orientation will be held on August 23, 2012 in the Unive rsity Center ballroom. The council members were asked to help disseminate this information so that all new students will be aware of this event. 408.2.5: The Teaching Effectiveness Workshop for Graduate Teaching Assistants will be held on August 24, 201 2. This event will be held in the University Center this year, rather than the Rose Theater where it has been held in the past. Flyers containing this information were distributed. K. Weddle -West instructed the council to share this information with all ne w Teaching Assistants, as well as any T.A.s that could not attend the workshop last year. 408.2.6: General Information Session s will be held in the fall 2012 semester. These college -level workshops will address issues such as work study availability, Gradu ate Assistant contracts, Matrix, Electronic Thesis/Dissertation archives, etc. Therefore, staff 2 members that deal with such items should attend the workshop. New graduate coordinators, graduate secretaries and administrative staff should attend. 408.2.7: The Candidacy forms have been revised, reducing the number of signatures required from six to two. Now only the Major Advisor /Professor and the College Directors must sign the form. This will help speed up the process and enhance efficiency. 408.2.8: The c ouncil was notified of a recent change in the Federal Law s. Effective beginning with the 2012 -2013 financial aid year graduate students will be ineligible for subsidized loans. K. Weddle -West noted that we expect to see the impact of this new policy as so on as the upcoming fall semester. We need to be more creative when helping students find ways to pay for school. K. Weddle -West will send the council information about private scholarships for graduate students. 408.2.10: The electronic letter of denial has been finalized. This letter will be sent to all students who are denied admission. 408.2.1: K. Weddle -West w elcome d our new est member of the council, Faculty Senate President, Tom Banning. 408.3 Discussion Items: 408.3.2: Ms. Bridgette Decent , from the Office of Institutional Research , attended the meeting to show the council what the OIR website is capable of doing in regards to enrollment reporting and statistics. The reports that the OIR website produces are very detailed and can be customiz ed for specific information. She noted that the report data is updated every night. These reports can serve as a helpful tool when planning for the fall 2012 semester. Ms. Decent encouraged the council to call the Institutional Research offices if they nee d assistance with anything regarding these reports, such as problems navigating the reports. She will create a bullet point outline of how to access this information, which M. Kyle will distribute via email once it is available. 408.2.9: The council was given a list of the GRE scores used to determine when to require a memo for admission . The old scores have been converted to the new scoring scale. Also distributed was the revised GRE concordance table , which show the relationship between the score scales of the old GRE format and the new score scales of the revised General Test. 408.3.1: In 2003 K. Weddle -West collected from each department their comprehensive examination procedure, which differ among each department. She encouraged the department s to post this information on their websites. She informed the council that each department needs to review the policy posted online and indicate any updates that need to be made. Any program added since 2003 will need to create this document. Each departm ent needs to address all protocol regarding Comprehensive Examinations, Reta kes, and Accompanying paperwork. The College Directors agreed to collect this information from their individual departments and send it to M. Kyle at marykyle@memphis.edu . 3 408.4 Old Business: 408.4.1: The r eview of Graduate Education Week in Tennessee 2012 was removed from the agenda. We are holding this item until the fall 2012 semester. 408.5 New Business: 408.5.1: Dr. Matthias Kaelberer attended the meeting in order to present the Political Science BA/MA program proposal to the council. He reviewed the many beneficial aspects of offering this accelerated program. K. Weddle -West noted that this content has already b een approved at the undergraduate level. She also informed the council that she is working with TBR to determine the most appropriate format for the proposal, as the TBR website currently lacks a template for this type of request. After a brief discussion, G. Emmert moved (2/W. Rushing) to approve the Accelerated Bachelors and Master™s degree program proposal. The vote was carried by voice vote. 408.5.2: M. Logan explained to the council that the Architecture catalog revisions need to be made in order to satisfy their accrediting body, the National Architec tural Accrediting Board (NAAB) . L. Bennett moved (2/E. Rakow) to approve the revisions to the Architecture Graduate Catalog. The voice was carried by voice vote. 408.5.3: The current Late Drop/Withdrawa l Procedure need to be revised. We are revising this procedure because some of the requirements for the Support Form are causing problems and slowing the process considerably. Students are having difficulties getting their instructors to sign the form, as currently required. Revising the procedure to reduce the number of signature required will help resolve this problem. K. Weddle -West specified the precise editorial changes to be made to the text online. G. Emmert moved (E. Rakow) to approve revising the p rocedure to eliminate certain requirements as previously discussed. The vote was carried by voice vote. There being no further business to address K. Weddle -West adjourned the meeting at 2:57p.m. , wishing everyone a wonderful summer. Minutes respectfully submitted by Mary Kyle.