#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/engr/mech.php
Mechnical Engineering - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Mechnical Engineering Mechanical Engineering SUMANTA ACHARYA, PhD Chair Room 312, Engineering Science Building 901.678.2173 TEONG E. TAN, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies E-Mail: ttan@memphis.edu I. The department of Mechanical Engineering offers a graduate program leading to the Master of Science degree with a major in Mechanical Engineering. Program objectives are: (1) ability to apply advanced knowledge of mathematics, physical sciences, and engineering principles to the solution of practical engineering problems; (2) meet or exceed the needs and expectations of public and private sector employers for MS graduates; and (3) preparation to pursue additional advanced studies if so desired. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) and the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MS Degree Program A. Program Admission The Herff College of Engineering has established uniform admission criteria that identify the pool of master’s level applicants from which the department evaluates and recommends qualified applicants to be admitted. B. Program Requirements A more detailed description of the information listed below will be given by the Coordinator of Graduate Studies to students admitted into the Mechanical Engineering MS program. Thesis Option: Successful completion of 30 semester hours to include 6 hours in MECH 7996 for thesis and 3 hours each in MECH 7341 and 7342. Of the remaining 18 hours, no more than 9 hours of 6000-level MECH courses or collateral courses may be used in satisfying degree requirements. Only courses in mathematics, the physical sciences, or another engineering discipline may serve as collateral courses; each course must receive prior approval by the departmental graduate coordinator for it to be used in satisfying degree requirements. With prior approval, up to 3 hours of 7000-level collateral courses may be used in satisfying degree requirements. Non-Thesis Option: Successful completion of 33 semester hours total to include 3 hours each in MECH 7341 and 7342. Of the remaining 27 hours, no more than 9 hours in 6000 level MECH or collateral courses may be used in satisfying degree requirements. Only courses in mathematics, the physical sciences, or another engineering discipline may serve as collateral courses; each course must receive prior approval by the departmental graduate coordinator for it to be used in satisfying degree requirements. With prior approval, up to 3 hours of 7000-level collateral courses may be used in satisfying degree requirements. With prior approval, up to 3 hours of MECH 7992 may be used in satisfying degree requirements. The department's graduate coordinator may approve transfer credit of up to 12 credit hours previously earned at another institution. For these hours to be used in satisfying degree requirements, appropriate documentation must be provided by the student, and approval granted, not later than the end of the student’s second semester of enrollment. Students selecting the thesis option will be required to complete an independent research project culminating in a masters thesis. Upon completion of the thesis, the student must successfully pass an oral examination to assess mastery of the thesis topic and to evaluate the student’s knowledge in mechanical engineering. Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write. Students selecting the non-thesis option must pass an oral comprehensive examination to demonstrate mastery of mechanical engineering topics commensurate with the degree to be awarded. Graduate Assistants must enroll for at least 12 credit hours per semester. A limited number of graduate assistantships are available; contact the departmental graduate coordinator for applications. Students who wish to take mechanical engineering courses must receive approval to register after consultation with the departmental graduate coordinator or with the faculty advisory committee. C. Retention Policy A student must maintain a GPA of 3.00 or higher throughout the program. If a student's GPA is below 3.0, that student will be on probation during the following semester. Failure to improve the GPA above 3.0 by the end of the probationary semester will result in dismissal from the program. D. Graduation Requirements Refer to "Minimum Degree Requirements--Masters Degrees" for University graduation requirements. III. PhD Degree Program See the beginning of the College section for admission, retention, program objectives, and graduation requirements. Note that all doctoral students must take MECH 8341 and MECH 8342. A more detailed description of the information will be given by the Coordinator of Graduate Studies to students admitted into the Mechanical Engineering concentration. IV. Graduate Certificate in Packaging Engineering The objectives of the certificate program are: (1). For local practitioners in the packaging and distribution industry to refine their knowledge in packaging engineering, (2). For other professionals with no prior packaging knowledge to look for a career change, (3). For current full time graduate students to expand their engineering knowledge or specialize their skills in packaging, and (4). For students with an undergraduate degree for a transition into graduate school. A. Admissions Requirements The certificate program in packaging engineering can be pursued concurrently with other graduate programs at the university. Applicants must have completed a bachelor’s degree with a cumulative grade point average of at least 2.5 and satisfy admission requirements of the Graduate School with the classification of “Graduate Certificate.” To apply for admission, the applicant must submit: Transcripts of undergraduate degree program and any prior graduate study to Graduate Admissions; A letter describing intent to pursue the certificate and its relevance to career goals to the Graduate Coordinator, Department of Mechanical Engineering; Two letters of recommendation describing pertinent professional work experience when seeking to waive a course prerequisite to the Graduate Coordinator, Department of Mechanical Engineering. B. Program Requirements Successful completion of 9 hours of graduate credits distributed as follows, maintaining a GPA of at least 3.0 and completing the program within three academic years, Required courses, 6 hours: MECH 6342, Introduction to Packaging Engineering MECH 7391, Packaging Dynamics/Distribution Packaging Research Project, 3 hours, registered under one of the listed courses and with approval of the program director: MECH 7990, Engineering Practicum; MECH 7391, Research Proposal; MECH 7992, Research Project; MECH 7994, Independent Study, with a grade of B or better. All 9 credit hours may be shared with a Master’s program in the Department of Mechanical Engineering upon the approval of the Advisory Committee. C. Graduation Requirements: Student must file “Apply to Graduate” with Graduate School at beginning of the semester in which he/she will complete the 9-semester hour requirement; A minimum grade of “B” or “S” in each course applicable to the certificate is required; Student must also submit a Candidacy Form to the Mechanical Engineering Graduate Coordinator in order to verify information and collect approvals and signatures required for the Graduate School. V. Accelerated B.S.M.E./M.S. Program in Mechanical Engineering This program allows outstanding undergraduates to begin the coursework for the Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering during their senior year. Students are encouraged to begin planning to enter the Accelerated B.S.M.E./M.S. program early in their undergraduate career, in consultation with their advisor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering. Working with the undergraduate and graduate academic coordinators, undergraduates selected into this program begin a carefully tailored course of study which will allow them to complete their B.S.M.E. degree while they also begin the coursework toward their M.S. To apply, students must have a minimum 3.25 grade point average, and must submit two reference letters and a copy of their transcript to the Mechanical Engineering department. Each applicant will complete an interview with the graduate academic coordinator in mechanical engineering. Students must also apply to the Graduate School for the accelerated B.S.M.E./M.S. program, which allows them to take graduate courses in mechanical engineering. To continue in the program past the B.S.M.E., students must apply for full admission into the Graduate School and into the Mechanical Engineering department's M.S. program. Only in ABM programs, up to 9 hours of graduate course work may be applied to both the undergraduate and graduate programs. However, any graduate coursework will not apply to undergraduate GPA. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .