#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2010-2011/0211min.pdf
1 UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES MINUTES, Meeting 399 February 4 th, 2011 2:00 p.m., 177B Administration Building PRESENT: J. Berman (PSYC), J. Dhaliwal (FCBE), M. Logan (CCFA), J. Page (MUSIC), E. Rakow (COE), K. Meyer ( LEAD ), L. Weiss (HSS), D. Hochstein (ENGR), A. Curry (BIOMED ENGR) , B. Park (Library), J. Brownlee (Graduate School) ABSENT : L. Bennett (CAS; M. Logan, proxy), J. Phillips (ENGL), G. Emmert (CHEM), D. Sherrell (MKTG), S. Utt (JOUR; M. Logan, proxy), R. Meier ( CIVIL; D. Hochstein, proxy), D. Wark (AUSP), R. Koch (NURSING; M. Logan, proxy), D. Irwin (UNV. COLLEGE), K. Ward (SPH), A. Mount (GSA), W. Jackson (Faculty Senate), K. Weddle -West (Graduate School), T. Woodman (Graduate School) GUESTS: John Amis, represen ting FCBE for Dan Sherrell; Marian Levy, representing SPH for Ken Ward; Fred Ellrich , representing UNV COLLEGE for Dick Irwin; Sara Hoover (Graduate School) E. Rakow led the meeting, as K. Weddle -West was attending a GRE Board meeting in California. He opened the meeting at 2:07 p.m. when a quorum was attained. 399.1 Approval of the Minutes from m eeting # 398 held on December 9, 2010. A few minor corrections to the minutes were noted by E. Rakow. K. Meyer moved (2/ B. Park) to approve the minutes from me eting # 398, with the previously discussed corrections. The motion was carried by voice vote. 399.2 Announcements: The announcements on the agenda were written with great detail. With much of the pertinent information being provided by the agenda there were very few additional questions or comments raised. 399.2.1 Dual -Intent Residency Status for in -state tuition paying purposes. This will benefit primarily applicants who hold H -4 visa status (spouses and children of students who hold H -1 visa status). E xamples of students with H -1 visa status are professionals who work at FedEx full -time, matriculate part -time at the University of Memphis, and have purchased homes in Tennessee. Students need to present appropriate documentation verifying that they have filed for permanent residency. This change s hould lead to increases in enrollment. 399.2.2 Spring Graduate and Professional School Recruitment Fair Œ The fair will be held on Tuesday, March 1, 2011 from 1:00 -5:00 p.m.in the Rose Theatre . A handout with t he basic information about this event was distributed to the council members. M. Kyle noted that the Graduate School and Marketing department will have the official flyer for this event ready soon. These flyers will be distributed as soon as they are avail able. Associate Deans have been asked to submit table set -up requests to the Graduate 2 School by February 11, 2011. These requests may be sent to kweddle@memphis.edu and smhoover@memphis.edu . 399.2.3 Graduate Education Week in Tennessee, April 4 Œ 8, 2011 Œ E. Rakow reviewed the various dates of events planned for this week. He reminded the council that we need to select students to present their research either at the St udent Research Forum or at Legislative Plaza on Capitol Hill. Council members were asked to send recommendations to their Associate Dean by February 15, 2011. 399.2.4 Revised GRE Video Œ E. Rakow noted that the video can be easily viewed by clicking on the link provided at the end of the Distribution Items list on the agenda. He reminded the council of the August 2011 release of the revised GRE. Council members are urged to encourage students to take new GRE in August Œ September, as it will be offered at a discounted price. However, test scores from the revised GRE will not be available until December 2011. Therefore, many applicants for the spring 2012 semester should take the old version of the GRE in order to meet certain application deadlines. 399.3 Discussion Items: 399.3.1 Graduate Student Survey Œ The Graduate School has been asked to help develop a survey for all graduate students. M. Kyle informed the council members that the copy of the survey distributed for this meeting is simply a draft ver sion, taken from an old career services questionnaire. She asked that everyone review the survey carefully and be ready to discuss how to improve it during the next UCGS meeting in March. Any ideas, questions, comments, etc. about the survey should be sent to marykyle@memphis.edu . 399.4 Old Business: 399.4.1 Vote on items tabled at December Curricular Review Œ E. Rakow reviewed each item listed on the handout provided. The council voted on two of the items, agreeing that the remaining two items be revisited during the March meeting. After a brief discussion item AS 73 Œ SWRK 7005 was put on hold due to a possible conflict of the proposed course title with the Psychology department. There being no questions regarding the next item, L. Weiss moved (2/M. Logan) to approve item AS 74 Œ SWRK 7013. The motion was carried by voice vote. M. Logan agreed to hold the vote on item CFA 2 Œ Catalog, section C. Program requirements, # 2, which requires further clarification regarding thesis options . The revisions requested by ICL were outlined in great detail by the table provided by E. Rakow. L. Weiss moved (2/K. Meyer) to approve each of the requests for pre -requisites submitted by IC L. The motion was carried by voice vote. 399.5 New Business: 399.5.1 Time limitation on graduate certificate programs Œ Due to the vast differences among programs, these time limitations will be individually program based. They should be no longer than the typical masters degree time limit. E. Rakow asked that each graduate certificate program review this issue and address it in the catalog revisions submitted next fall. 399.5.2 Strategic Recruitment Planning Committee for Growing Graduate Enrollment . This committee met roughly 5 -6 years ago and was quite successfully in their goals. Thus, K. Weddle -West is reorganizing the 3 committee and looking for volunteers. The Associate Deans will serve on the committee . All UCGS members are also invited to serve. Committee members will help identify the areas where we need to focus our resources. K. Weddle -West would like to get this committee formed and in action as soon as possible. Please contact Mary Kyle ( marykyle@me mphis.edu ) to volunteer or nominated someone to serve on this committee. 399.5.3 Online Departmental Application Process Œ E. Rakow informed the council members that a c ore committee is currently investigating various sources of efficient means to send and receive letters of recommendation, goal statements, etc. electronically. It was noted that the Psychology department has a model in place called Perfectforms. J. Berman was involved in the development of this model and provided the council with some in sight regarding this process. There being no further business to address E. Rakow adjourned the meeting at 3:15 p.m.. Minutes respectfully submitted by Mary Kyle.