#http://www.memphis.edu/univcoll/resources/thematic_studies.php
Thematic Studies Courses - University College - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University College About Undergraduate Graduate Resources Online Home University College Resources Thematic Studies Courses Thematic Studies Courses Thematic Studies courses are interdisciplinary courses about significant problems, themes or ideas. All University College students must complete 6 credit hours of Thematic Studies courses. Please note not all UNIV courses are Thematic Studies so please check the list below for approved thematic studies courses or speak to your advisor. HONORS THEMATIC STUDIES COURSES Students who have a GPA of 3.50 on the last 12 credit hours they have taken are eligible to enroll in honors Thematic Studies courses. Contact your college advisor for a permit. ONLINE THEMATIC STUDIES COURSES Some thematic studies courses are offered online and can be easily identified by the instructional method and section number in the course schedule . RODP online courses are sections R01, R25, and R50. Ex. UNIV 3580-R50 RODP Instructional Methods is "RODP-WEB Asynchronous UG" UM Online courses are sections 41x, and M5x. Ex. UNIV 3535-M50 UM Online Instructional Method is "WEB-Asynchronous" UNIV 3522 American Cinema (3) Overview of American film history from silent cinema to the present. Considers the place of Hollywood film in American popular culture, the relation of movie technology to film art, and seeks to develop cinematic literacy and the ability to think critically about popular culture. UNIV 3526 War and American Society (6) Will be 3 hours beginning fall 2015. Interdisciplinary examination of the concept and effects of war from historical, literary, artistic and philosophical perspectives. Focus on the various ways in which America has dealt with war, from the Revolutionary War to the recent Gulf Conflict, and on the changes in American society that have resulted. UNIV 3531 American Experience: Images and Narrative (3) Organized around "images" and "narrative". Utilizes a variety of cultural materials to enhance appreciation of the peoples and experiences that define the term "American". UNIV 3534 Theatre and Therapy (3) Traces the therapeutic functions of theater from the ancient practice of shamanistic rituals up to the contemporary applications of psychodrama and drama therapy. Considers the meaning of drama and play in a evolving culture. Practical experience in the therapeutic uses of theater through a series of workshops. UNIV 3535 Family Communication (3) Provides a framework and perspective for analyzing the family as a communication system. It examines the ways in which members of family systems interact in order to develop, sustain and manage their relationships in an era when family issues are at the forefront of national concerns, particularly in governmental, educational and religious arenas. UNIV 3540 Ethics and Professionalism (3) An analysis of ethical decisions and dilemmas of professional practice. A study of elementary principles of moral philosophy and applying those principles to professional decisions. Learning how to tolerate disagreement, developing respect for ethnic and gender diversity, and gaining a sense of moral responsibility in your professional practice. UNIV 3542 Baseball in America (3) Baseball in America covers the game’s early history to the present, formation of the National and American Leagues, the Dead Ball Era, establishment of the National Baseball Hall of Fame, key players, racism in the game, including the Negro Leagues, the AAGPBL, as well as baseball in war, film, poetry, and song. The course will also explore how the sport has affected a cross section of America and the world and the business aspects of the game from free agency to radio-television contracts. UNIV 3565 Comparative Christianity (3) Commonality in Christianity; major turning points in Christian history; the tradition's variety of subgroups, starting with the three great groupings: Eastern Christianity, Roman Christianity, and Protestant Christianity; examination of future of Christianity. UNIV 3580 Hebrew and Greek Legacy (3) Interdisciplinary examination of salient ideas, values, and traditions of ancient Hebraic and Greek cultures, with emphasis on those ideas and values that have most significantly influenced the modern world. Understanding of ideas and values enhanced through comparison with selected non-Western traditions. UNIV 3581 Faith, Reason &amp; Imagination (3) Interdisciplinary examination of religious, rationalist, and aesthetic viewpoints as distinctive ways of understanding what is fundamental to human experience. Exploration of historical development of each of these modes of understanding and examination of tensions that exist among them in modern world. UNIV 3585 Critical Themes in the Old Testament (3) Theological themes in the Old Testament; genres, concepts, issues that make up the story of the Hebrew Scriptures and its meaning for complexities in the contemporary world. UNIV 3590 New Testament (3) Main events, background, characters and teaching of the New Testament and how it relates to the Old Testament and to today. UNIV 4506 The Chinese (3) (Same as ESCI 4307). Provides an understanding of the people, history, culture, and government of a civilization more than 5,000 years old. Shows the influence ancient Chinese medicine, art and religion has had on the contemporary world and illustrates the way in which China attempts to balance economical and political development with ancient customs, rituals, and beliefs. Also considers the role which China plays in the global economy - now and in the future. UNIV 4511 (Same as JDST 4511) Holocaust Studies (3) Synthesizing knowledge and methodologies from several disciplines; contexts and implications of the Holocaust; encompass periods before, during, and after the event to explore questions of human values and responsibility; research paper, journal, writing for oral presentation and essay exam. UNIV 4518 Literature of the Americas (6) Will be 3 hour beginning fall 2015. Explores the diversity, similarities and universality of the central themes of Spanish- American and African-American fiction. UNIV 4520 (Same as PSYC 4305) Mind, Brain &amp; Intelligence (3) Examination of theories, mechanisms, and systems in the cognitive sciences that explain intelligent thought and behavior. Explores the implications of core ideas on ethics, values, public policy. UNIV 4527 The Developing Adult (3) Explores issues involving the developing adult, such as: early adulthood, middle adulthood, and late adulthood including understanding social relationships, retirement options and issues, choice in living arrangements and finally, end-of-life concerns. UNIV 4830 (Same as JDST 4830) Israeli/Arab Conflict (3) Historical, political, cultural dimensions of tensions that have existed between Israelis and Arabs since the founding of the State of Israel with attention to current situation. MRCH 4205 Behavioral Science Aspects of Clothing (3) Interdisciplinary study of clothing and appearance; concepts, methodologies, and applications of behavioral science to clothing. MRCH 4300 Family Resource Management (3) Investigates values, goals, and human and material resources necessary for individuals and families to make informed management decisions throughout the life span. MRCH 4304 Trends in Housing and Home Furnishing (3) Major trends and influences on contemporary residential furnishings as these affect home furnishings merchandising. (For Merchandising-Home Furnishings majors only.) DANC 4402 Dance Education in Diverse Settings (3) Theory, methods and materials for teaching modern and creative dance in schools, dance studios, arts programs, and community settings; current research in aesthetic education and curriculum development. (For Dance Education majors only.) PHIL 3514 Biomedical Ethics (3) Discussion of ethical problems raised by contemporary medical practices and biological innovations from standpoint of contemporary ethical theories including abortion, euthanasia, behavior modification, human experimentation and genetic engineering. Request More Information Complete our online form for additional degree information. Online Appointments Academic Advising is available in-person, by phone and web conference. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/11/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .