#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2009-2010/0909min.pdf
Meeting 388, 9 - 4 - 0 9 1 UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES MINUTES, Meeting 38 8 4 September 2009 2:00 p.m., 177B Administration Building PRESENT: L. Benne t t (CAS), J. Berman (Psych, faculty senate), D. Sherrell (MKTG), M. Logan (CCFA), J. Jackson, ART), S. Utt (Journalis m), M. Grant (ICL), L. Weiss (HSS), S. Slack (Engineering), R. Meier (CIVL), R. Koch (Nursing), P. Stevens (University College), L. Klesges (Pub Hlth), B. Park (Library), S. Connable (GSA president), K. Weddle - West (VP Graduate Studies ), J. Brownlee (Gradu ate School) , J. Dhaliwal (Business) , L. Allen, J. Lederer (GA) ABSENT: M. Parris (Biol), D Patterson (Judaic Studies), J. Thieme ( Mktg), L. Schranze (Music), E. Rakow (COE), C. Williams (Eng tech), D. Wark (AUSP), H. McCree (University College), T. Woodm an (Graduate School) GUEST: Vicki Murrell (Distance Learning) K. Weddle - West opened the meeting at 2:10 p.m. when a quorum was attained. Moira Logan reenacted a portion of the skit/dance she performed at the Graduate Student Orientation at the request of Karen Weddle - West. 38 8 .1 Approval of Minutes of Meeting 38 7 , 1 May 2009 : L. Bennett moved (2/ R. Koch ) that the minutes be approved as written. The motion was carried and the minutes approved by voice vote. 38 8 .2 Announcements 388.2.1 Meeting schedule . The meeting schedule in December was discussed. The December 10 th date (study day) was discussed as the preferred date. Council members will check their calendars for availability. 388.2.2 Introduction of new Graduate School staff . The Graduate Counci l and the Graduate School Staff (Jenny Lederer (GA) , Sean Connable (GSA President) , J. Brownlee, L. Allen) introduced themselves to the council. Karen explained that with Nancy Hurley retiring, Karen, along with Jenny Lederer, Mary Kyle, and L. Allen would 388.2. 3 Hobson s Connect update . Karen explained that Mary Kyle oversees Hobson s for the Graduate School. The university purchased Ho b son s as a recruitment tool to electronically ries and requests for additional information . Data show that quicker responses yield more student applications. The President would like to see a 48 - hour turnaround in response to students. Hobsons is scheduled to go live October 9 th. A represent ativ e , A . J . , will visit campus during the week that Hobsons goes live. By November 2 nd at the Graduate School Recruitment Fair, prospective students will be able to log in, complete the Hobsons Interest page, and receive immediately additional information about their programs of interest. We will also be able to run reports and send to Meeting 388, 9 - 4 - 0 9 2 interested faculty critical contact and demographic information about the prospective students. Logan questioned if the department would get notice of students interested a nd Karen Weddle - West responded that such reports could be run and sent to interested faculty . Jed Jackson stated that personal follow - ups with perspective students are important. 388.2. 4 The Graduate School Recruitment Fair is scheduled in the Rose Theatr e November 2, 2009. from 1:00 - 5:00 p.m . Karen informed the council that the President initially discussed the need to recruit our best and brightest into graduate programs at the University of Memphis. She also emphasized the importance of cross - discipli nary recruitment. and very inexpensive with over 275 students registered and over 80 faculty members in attendance. We are asked to repeat it. She told the council they will be asked to participate. 388.2.5 Dr. Weddle - West has been appointed by CGS to the G.R.E. Board which is considered quite an honor. The first meeting is in October. She will solicit f rom the council members recommendations for revisions and apprise them regularly of any changes. 388.2.6 OCT OBER 23, 2009 - ALL CURRICULAR REVISIONS ARE DUE 23 October 2009 ( see handout) ! IT IS IMPERATIVE THAT MATERIALS ARE SUBMITTED TO THE GRADUATE SCHOOL BY THE DUE DATE. The council was reminded that Nancy has retired and it is crucial to submit all materials on time. Materials cannot be accepted late anymore due to the limited staff on board. A reminder was given to have the materials in to the department on time so the department can meet the graduate school deadlines. 388.2.7 Updating the description of th e UCGS in the faculty handbook (handout). Karen noted corrections that will be approved at the next meeting. 388.2. 8 National recognition of diversity in University of Memphis Graduate Programs at the Library of Congress & graduate success stories ( PowerP oint s /handouts). Karen presented a PowerPoint showing the diversity of graduate students at the University of Memphis correcting the misinformation that has been reported by the media. The number of African - American graduate students enrolled between 2001 - 2006 has ranged from 23% - 29% . These data are significantly higher tha n reported in the media. Karen stated that the leadership of our competing institutions is made up of our graduates. The ir recruitment strategies focus on reduced costs and shorter tim e to degree. Understanding the landscape is important. We have always been the most ethnically diverse graduate and undergraduate program in the state of Tennessee. The second PowerPoint showed graduate student success stories. Karen is asking council members to send additional student success stories for the G raduate S chool website. Meeting 388, 9 - 4 - 0 9 3 graduate school receiving double the money for the first generation Ph.D. fellowship. Karen and an alumna from the Ph . D . P ro g ram in Philosophy , Dr. Kristie Dodson , were selected by the Council of Graduate Schools to present to >100 lawmakers at the Library of Congress on the importance of Kar en also announced that the Graduate School at the University of Memphis received an Inclusive Graduate Community. The remaining PowerPoint featured the national recognition of the Gr Diverse Magazine (formerly Black Issues in Higher Education ). Several of our graduate programs are among the higher producers of African - American and Asian - 388.2 . 9 Added Item Enrollment Increase. 4435 graduate students have registered (9 - 3 - 09) which represents a 12% increase in graduate enrollment in compar i son to this time in the f all of 2008 . This is excellent news! Karen commended all council members and asked them to give themselves a round of applause for all of their hard work to recruit students. She also asked them to commend the faculty in their respective departments. She highlighted the fact that 363 of the 4435 students were U niversity of Memphi s seniors - degree students accepted into our graduate programs. This number is significant because it accounts largely for the increase. 388.2.1 0 Carnegie classification (handout). Karen explained the U . of M . classif ication. The earlier classifications were Research I, Research II institutions. Carnegie later revised their classification system to Doctoral Extensive Research Universities which was the classification for the University of Memphis until the latest Car negie change. The University of Memphis is now classified by Carnegie as a RU/H (Research University with High Research Activity. The University of Memphis is the only TBR university with the classification! We aim for the classification of RU/VH (Rese arch University with Very High Research Activity). 388.3 Discussion Items 388.3.1 Online conversions (handout). Vicki Murrell was available to discuss/answer questions. The U. of M. has the highest number of graduate programs online. We need to check f or collaboration and duplication as indicated in steps 2 and 3 on t he new guidelines from Dr. Paula Short, Vice Chancellor ( handout ) . A boilerplate of information has been developed by the Office of Extended programs which will facilitate the development of online proposals. A handout was provided indicating what is needed by Vicki and Dan to gather the materials for TBR. Moira had a question about new programs. Vicki responded that the same TBR Meeting 388, 9 - 4 - 0 9 4 guidelines for approving new program need to be followe d before programs can be placed online. Michael Grant asked if program developers should send Vick i the proposals and she responded affirmatively. Karen mentioned there are several programs that would like to go online this will enhance enrollment. Cou rses do not have to be converted to online delivery before proposal submission. Vicki also reminded council members to use, whenever possible, courses that already exist online. 388.3. 2 (handout) . The council was a sked to look at this report for ways to advance degree completion. Time to degree is one of the variables that prospective students consider in their decision - making about graduate programs. ABD rate s at some institutions are very high . Having a disser tation coach is one of the solutions. Trish Woodman is our volunteer dissertation coach who is doing a great job and has already presented to some faculty and student groups. She has proved that she is quite good and accessible. 388.4 Old Business 388.5 New Business 388.5.1 . Students There is no policy in place that limits the number of hours that one can apply to graduate from a rogram while pursuing a doctoral degree or vice - versa. Discussion. D. Sherrell stated this will be difficult for some programs to decide. M. Grant stated that the number will vary if the student is transferring hours from the doctora l to doctoral degree. The council was asked to discuss this issue with departmental faculty and we will continue the discussion at the next meeting. 388.5.2 Graduate Student Association. S. Connable talked about efforts to build the graduate community. He would like to see a database of graduate students and community service. The Graduate Student Association needs leadership council members from University College, th e Herff College of Engineering , Nursing, Audiology and Speech Lan guage Pathology and the School of Public Health. All colleges and schools need to be represented in the GSA . Those College Directors were asked to send names to Sean Connable. 388.5.3 Grade Appeal Committee. Moira Logan chairs the Graduate Grade Appe als committee and need s 3 alternates. The committee needs to reflect the diversity of the university, so please encourage members of diverse populations to serve. 388.5.4 ETDs (Electronic Theses and Dissertations) . Betsy discussed the work of the ETD c ommittee. There are still details to work out. The goal is for all Meeting 388, 9 - 4 - 0 9 5 students to submit ETDs by Fall 2010. Betsy suggested an advisory committee be formed to oversee and help implement the recommendations of the ETD committee. Members were selected from the council: J. Dhaliwal, M. Grant, L. Weiss, S. Connable, J. Lederer and S. Utt volunteered to serve as the Advisory Committee. The meeting was adjourned at 3.25 pm. Minutes respectfully submitted by Lorraine Allen .