#http://www.memphis.edu/cs/financial_aid/peter_neathery.php
Peter I. Neathery Scholarship/Fellowship - Computer Science - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Computer Science About Future Students Current Students Research People Contact Hiring Financial Aid Undergraduate Scholarships Fellowships &amp; Assistantships Home Computer Science Financial Aid Peter I. Neathery Scholarship/Fellowship Peter I. Neathery Scholarship/Fellowship The Peter I. Neathery Scholarships and Fellowships in Computer Science were made possible by a generous gift from the eponymous donor. These merit-based awards are given to both undergraduate and graduate Computer Science students at the University of Memphis. Up to four undergraduate and four graduate students each year may receive the award. Undergraduate Scholarships If sufficient funding is available, and at the discretion of the Computer Science faculty, up to four Neathery Scholarships may be awarded competitively each year to undergraduate students who: Are incoming freshmen in Computer Science with an ACT score of 28 or higher (26 or higher for students who have scored 5 on the AP Computer Science AB exam) Are current students in Computer Science maintaining a GPA of at least 3.5/4.0. Each scholarship is $1,000 and requires full-time enrollment for the year of the award. Tennessee residence is not required. The award is competitively renewable for a maximum of four (4) consecutive years. Award winners will be competitively selected at the discretion of the Computer Science faculty, or a designated committee, based on the criteria above. Graduate Fellowships If sufficient funding is available, and at the discretion of the Computer Science faculty, up to four Neathery Fellowships may be awarded competitively each year to graduate students who: Are enrolled as full-time graduate students in Computer Science. Have a B.S. degree in computer science or closely related area with GPA exceeding 3.0/4.0. If graduate studies have begun, the candidate must have been in the graduate program less than a year, and the most recent GPA on record must also exceed 3.0/4.0. Have GRE scores of at least 1200 (V+Q) or 1650 (V+Q+A). Have been nominated to apply for the fellowship by at least one current Computer Science faculty member. Each fellowship is $3,000 and requires full-time enrollment for the year of the award. Fellowship recipients shall be selected by a faculty committee within the Department of Computer Science. Application All applications should be submitted through the University's centralized Tiger Scholarship Manager system. Please refer to the University's Scholarships page for details. Past Recipients Jason Buck (undergraduate, 2008-09) Xiaoshan Cai (undergraduate, 2008-09, 2007-08, 2006-07) Tim Doan (undergraduate, 2014-15) Eric Franks (undergraduate, 2008-09) Brian Hanson (undergraduate, 2006-07) Sean Higgins (undergraduate, 2013-14) Michael Irick (undergraduate, 2008-09) Austin Nabors (undergraduate, 2014-15) Julia Nordstad (undergraduate, 2005-06) Austin Thompson (undergraduate, 2004-05) Quang Tran (graduate, 2014-15) Financial Aid Undergraduate Scholarships Fellowships &amp; Assistantships News &amp; Events Weekly colloquium talks and other events Career Opportunities Internship information and job postings for students Degree Programs Information on our degree and certificate programs Courses Recent syllabi for our courses Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/26/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .