#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2009-2010/1009min.pdf
1 UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES MINUTES, Meeting 389 2 October, 2009 2:00 p.m., 177B Administration Building PRESENT : L. Bennett (CAS), J. Berman (PSYC, Faculty Senate), M. Parris (BIOL), D. Patterson (Judaic Studies), J. Dhaliwal (Business), D. Sherrell (MKTG), M. Logan (CCFA), J. Jackson (ART), E. Rakow (COE), L. Weiss (HSS), S. Slack (Engineering), C. Williams (Eng Tech), R. Koch (Nursing), H. McCree (University College), P. Stevens (University College), S. Connable (GSA president), K. Weddle - W est (VPGS), J. Brownlee (Graduate School), ABSENT : L. Schranze (Music), S. Utt (Journalism; M. Logan, proxy), M. Grant (ICL; L. Weiss, proxy), R. Meier (CIVL; S. Slack, proxy), D. Wark (AUSP), L. Klesges (Public Health; L. Bennett, proxy), B. Park (Librar y), T. Woodman (Graduate School) GUESTS: Marian Levy (Public Health) , Jerome Blakemore (Master of Social Work) K. Weddle - West opened the meeting shortly after 2:00 p.m. when a quorum was attained. She introduced M. Kyle as the new recording secretary fo r the University Council and asked that all council members introduce themselves. 389.1 Approval of Minutes of Meeting 388, September 4, 2009: E. Rakow and D. Patterson requested a correction to the minutes, as they were both present at meeting #388 but r ecorded as absent. L. Bennett moved (2/M. Logan) that minutes be approved with the aforementioned revisions. The motion was carried by voice vote. In order to accommodate our guest, Mr. Jerome Blakemore, the Master of Social Work proposal was discussed at the beginning of the meeting. 389.5.1 Master of Social Work degree: J. Blakemore presented the Master of Social Work proposal to the council. He acknowledged the need to modify the proposal in order to clarify certain aspects. Course titles will be chang ed to prevent from being too similar to other language explaining the total number o f hours required for the degree will be clarified. J. Blakemore then answered questions from the council. K. Weddle - West supported the proposal, mentioning that we already have a pool of prospective students, faculty members have already been approved, and that we hope to be able to admit students by the fall 2010 semester. After much discussion and further clarification of certain issues R. Koch 2 moved to accept the proposal with the revisions and corrections discussed earlier (2/E. Rakow). The motioned was carried by voice vote. 389.2 Announcements 389.2.1 Reminder that curricular revisions are due OCTOBER 23RD 2009, NO EXCEPTIONS. Send to Mary Kyle, the Graduate School, Administration Building 215: K. Weddle - West reiterated the importance of getting all materials to M. Kyle by October 23rd in order to meet the graduate school deadlines. The council was also reminded that Nancy Hurley has retired, making it crucial that all materials be submitted on time. Materials cannot be accepted late anymore due to th e limited staff on board. 389.2.2 Discount for Senior Citizens auditing graduate classes: $35.00 for graduate courses; $25 dollars for undergraduate courses. K. Weddle - West explained that allowing senior citizens to audit classes at a discounted price is a go od opportunity to help increase enrollment. 389.2.3 2009 - 2010 Schedule: Council members agreed to vote on curricular changes on Thursday, December 10, 2009. The schedule was changed to reflect this decision and distributed electronically. 389.2.4 F ord & National Science Foundation Fellowships (handouts): K. Weddle - West reviewed the various avenues available to students in need of money for school. In addition to the handout, K. Weddle - West provided other places students can use to find funds: SRN ex press and Scholarships.com. K. Weddle - West asked that council members encourage their departments to help students recognize the general nature of the search and where to look, as many of these sources of funds go untapped. 389.2.5 Graduate School Fellow ships (handouts): In order to help students find better sources of money, K. Weddle - West asked that faculty review the fellowships offered by the Graduate School. A complete list of all fellowships can be found on the graduate school website, . 389.2.6 NRC Assessment of Doctoral Programs Update: K. Weddle - West acknowledged E. Rakow for doing an excellent job expla ining the analysis done. The NRC assessment was noted to be more helpful than some other reports, as their unit of analysis is discipline. K. Weddle - West informed the council tha t more information and workshops are forthcoming. 389.2.7 2nd Annual Gradua te and Professional Schools Recruitment Fair (November 2, 2009 from 1:00 - 5:00 p.m. in Rose Theatre): K. Weddle - West announced that 3 plans for the recruitment fair were going smoothly. She requested that council members be sure to include their undergraduate base, as one of the main functions of the fair is cross - disciplinary recruitment. 389.2.8 Recruitment Sys tem, noting that we are on schedule to go live October 9th, 2009. K. Weddle - West thanked all council members for their help in getting the system set - up. Training will be arranged for all graduate coordinators and UCGS members. More specific inf ormation wi ll be available after representative , A.J. Riley , comes to implement the system. 389.2.9 Master of Public Health and Master of Health Administration move d officially to School of Public Health: Marian Levy, representative from the School of Public Health, was present at the meeting to announce that these two programs are now officially part of the School of Public Health. 389.3 Discussion Items 3 89.3.1 Graduate Faculty Status for Emeritus Faculty: The council was asked to consider the appro priate faculty status for retired faculty, as it relates to their ability to chair thesis/dissertation committees. K. Weddle - West suggested that granting research co - mentor faculty status to such individuals would allow for them to serve as the co - chair of a committee if the need arises. Council members discussed the necessity of evaluating each candidate individually. E. Rakow reminded members that all research co - mentor status requests are assessed on a case - by - case basis. K. Weddle - West also specified t he difference in roles between a committee member and a committee chair, noting that the chair has more involvement and expertise than the other committee members. This issue mostly affects students, whose chair has retired, leaving them without a committe e chair. J. Dhaliwal argued for allowing retired faculty to serve as chairs of committees, as it would be a good way to protect our students and provide for their individual needs. After much debate K. Weddle - West asked all council members to discu ss this issue with their faculty . 389.3.2 Emphasizing Continuous Enrollment Policy: K. Weddle - West reminded council of this particular policy requiring students to stay enrolled every fall and spring semester until they graduate. If student s fail to adhere to thi s policy , they will be charged for 1 hour of credit per each semester missed, excluding summer . K. Weddle - West explained that once a student enrolls in dissertations hours s/he must be continuously enrolled through graduation. All council members were str ongly urged to remind their faculty and students of this policy in order to prevent this problem. 4 389.3.3 credit in a different discipline: L. Bennett shared the sentiments of her colleagues in the College of Arts and Sciences regarding this issue. In general, they are in favor of keeping the flexibility, but see the need to clarify when this decision gets made and precisely how the information will be relayed to the graduate sc hool. J. Brownlee suggested the rule be that all transfer credits be communicate with students early on regarding transfer credits. L. Bennett concluded that she would not advise setti ng a firm policy. E. Rakow made a motion to continue the policy as presently existing to enable program committees to decide how many and which courses can be transferred (2/L. Weiss). The motion was carried by voice vote. 389.3.4 Graduate Enrollment Incr eases: K. Weddle - West thanked the council again for their hard work and dedication to increasing enrollment. This semester we admitted over 4,400 students and managed to get 4,285 students to pay and register. All together, this means we saw an 8% increase at the graduate level. K. Weddle - West encouraged the council to keep up their hard work. 389.4 Old Business - none 389.5 New Business 389.5.1 see page 1 There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 3:30pm. Minutes respectfully submi tted by Mary Kyle.