#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2009-2010/1109min.pdf
1 UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES MINUTES, Meeting 390 November 6 th, 2009 2:00 p.m., 177B Admi nistration Building PRESENT: J. Berman (PSYC, Faculty Senate), M. Parri s (BIOL), D. Patterson (Judaic Studies), J. Dhaliwal (Business), M. Logan (CCFA), , L. Schranze (Music), S. Utt (Journalism), E. Rakow (COE), M. Grant (ICL), L. Weiss (HSS), R. Meier (CIVL), C. Williams (Eng Tech), , R. Koch (Nursing), H. McCree (University College), , L. Klesges (Public Health), B. Park (Library), S. Connable (GSA president), K. Weddle-West (VPGS), J. Brownlee (Graduate School), T. Woodman (Graduate School) ABSENT: L. Bennett (CAS; Will Thompson proxy), D. Sh errell (MKTG; J. Dhaliwal proxy), J. Jackson (ART), S. Slack (Engineering; R. Meier proxy) , P. Stevens (University College), D. Wark (AUSP; R. Koch proxy) GUESTS: Allecia Powell; Ken Ward K.Weddle-West opened the meeting at 2:10pm when a quorum was attained. 390.1 Approval of Minutes of Meeting 389, October 2 nd, 2009: C. Williams moved to approve the minutes (2/L. Kledges), and the motion was carried by a voice vote. 390.2 Announcements 390.2.1 K. Weddle-West thanked all faculty members who participated in the Graduate and Professional School Recruitment Fair Monday, November 2, 2009. More than 175 prospective students attended and talked with faculty members about their programs of interest. We will contin ue hosting these events and appreciate the investment of time and effort by the faculty to make each Recruitment Fair a success. 390.2.2 Thanks to our Hobsons Implementation team: K. Weddle-West thanked all staff who helped launch the Hobsons Online Recruitment system. M. Kyle was then asked to provide council members with a brief demonstration of the system. 390.5.1 Hobson™s Online Recruitment Syst em demonstration: M. Kyle demonstrated how a prospective student would find, sign up for, and log into the Hobsons System. Logging in as a potential student, M. Kyle showed the different aspects of the VIP 2 page and how it can be personalized for each user. M. Kyle also provided examples of reports that Hobsons can ge nerate. It was decided that an inquiry report would be run monthly for each program. K. Weddle-West announced Hobsons™ training will take place in Ja nuary 2010. After a brief discussion, Ms. Powell was asked to address the issue of search engine optimization with her web committee members. Therefore, she will return in December to inform us of their recommendations. 390.2.3 Tricia Woodman serving as our new dissertation coach: K. Weddle-West announced that Tricia Woodman will continue to work with our students as their dissertation coach 10 hours per week. K. Weddle-West also announced that the Graduate School staff will hold thesis -dissertation workshops next semester. 390.3 Discussion Items: none 390.4 Old Business 390.4.1 Retired Faculty, who are not in the post-retirement program, serving as research co-mentor: K. Weddle-West asked council me mbers if they were ready to vote on the matter. E. Rakow called for a motion to allow retired faculty, not in the post- retirement program, to serve as research co-mentors (2/ M. Logan). The motion was approved by a voice vote. 390.5 New Business 390.5.2 Approval of revised PhD in Social and Behavioral Sciences: Ken Ward presented the revised PhD proposal to the council members. Dr. Ward specified that all changes that the external reviewers recommended had been made. The external reviewers were particularly interested in seeing more faculty directly involved in the program and the proposal reflects this recommended increase in faculty. K. Weddle-West told members that it was a solid proposal. R. Koch then made motion to approve the proposal (2/ R. Meier). The motion was approved by a voice vote 390.5.3 Approval of the concentration in the Arts of Africa and the African Diaspora proposal: M. Logan presented the new concentration proposal to the council 3 members. She informed the council that we are already well positioned to offer this concentration, as we already have the faculty and a new collection of African artifacts. This permanent collection, donated by the Fogelmans, will serve as a tremendous asset for students™ research. K. Weddle-West noted that this would help attract tuition paying students. E. Rakow suggested that the language of the proposal be expanded to underscore the fact that no new funds are needed since the faculty and courses already exis t. J. Dhaliwal moved to approve the proposal with the stated revisions (2/ L. Weiss). The proposal was approved by a voice vote. 390.5.4 Deletion of Interior Design conc entration in MFA: M. Logan explained to the council that Architecture moved from the Art department to its own department, moving the interior design courses as well. Therefore, there is no longer a need for an interior design concentration in the Art department. L. Weiss then moved to delete this program (2/ K. Weddle-West) and the vote was carried by voice. 390.5.5 TBR list of low-producing grad uate programs: K. Weddle-West reassured all council members that none of our cert ificate programs will be terminated. Provost Faudree has spoken with Dr. Paula Short (TBR) and clarified that no new faculty or resources are needed to offer a Graduate Certificate because the students who enroll in Certificate programs are also enrolled in Master™s or doctoral programs. Students need to be re minded that they must officially apply to certificate programs and file their intent to graduate forms with the Graduate School. Completers of Graduate Certificate programs receive a diploma and their names are included annually in the Commencement program. K. Weddle-West asked all council members to help communicate this message. 390.5.6 Discussion of development of new certificates: K. Weddle-West told council members that they have done a great job growing our programs. She asked that from now on we focus on all existing programs, rather than proposing new degrees or certificates. With no more business to address the meeting was adjourned at 3:15 pm. These minutes respectfully submitted by Mary Kyle.