#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT7160410.pdf
Course Syllabus MGMT 7160 M50 - Global Strategic Management Fall 2015 3 credit hours I nstructor: Associate Professor Frances Fabian Phone1: 901 - 347 - 3574 Phone2: 662 - 778 - 2342 E - mail: ffabian@memphis.edu Office: FCBE Office 211 Skype ID: frances.fabian4 LinkedIn: Frances Fabian URL: Office Hours: T Th 3:30 - 5:30 Course Overview: Decisions and actions for development and implementation of long - term plans that det ermine organizational performance; role of top management decision making in establishing the firm's mission; focus on strategic analysis of alternative actions; evaluation of environmental conditions, industry characteristics, and organizational capabilit ies in determining strategy in a global context. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: This is the capstone MBA course and must be taken in your last semester. Required Text: Barney, Jay B. Gaining and Sustaining Competitive Advantage. FOURTH Edition . Prentice Hall, NJ. HERE is the etext link : ( ) Internet reading/surfing will be assigned via the modules and will be updated weekly. A regular reading of bu siness periodicals (e.g., Wall Street Journal/Barron's - page Fortune , BusinessWeek / , Forbes , Financial Times, , Investor's Business Daily, ) is strongly recommended. Location of Course Materials: Beyond the textbook, all of your required materials will be found here on the elearn site in the content section. You are responsible for reading the weekly modules and keeping up with assignments. Course Description : This course emphasizes the need to integrate the functional activities of the firm in planning corporate objectives and achieving operating results. Students will identify issues and problems of the fi rm as a whole, explore alternatives, and make decisions which recognize the interrelationships of the functional specialties within the total organization. This course is designed to present strategic management from the point of view of the practicing gen eral manager. It focuses on specific knowledge and skills that are required to understand strategy and the process by which it is developed in business organizations, and provides information on the situation and context in which strategy is formed and imp lemented. While the course integrates knowledge and skills from previous core course work, you will be learning specific new information and new vocabulary for general management. Thus, students are expected to combine knowledge from previous courses with the material presented here to develop sophisticated interpretations and analyses of business problems and opportunities. Moreover, because this is an online course, I expect you to become a savvy virtual environment user. Therefore, along with interac ting in the elearn environment, you will be getting acquainted with running your own blog, working with a group on a wiki site, and transferring your powerpoint project into a flash compatible presentation with audio. These latter tasks are all to be perf ormed on the web OUTSIDE of elearn. After you leave Memphis, you need to realize you can recreate this type of content at any public library (or if you have an ipad or tablet, any McDonald's or Starbucks, for that matter). Course Objectives: 1. Developm ent and reinforcement of a general management point of view • the capacity to view the firm from an overall perspective in the context of its environment. 2. Development of an understanding of fundamental concepts in strategic management: the role of the gen eral manager; the levels and components of strategy; competitive analysis; the industrial organization perspective; the resource - based view of the firm; and organizational evolution. 3. Understanding of the influence of global competition on firm strategy and performance. 4. Detailed analysis and discussion of important social and ethical issues faced by managers. 5. Synthesis of the knowledge gained in previous courses and understandi ng what part of that knowledge is useful to general managers. 6. Development of an awareness of the impact of the economic, social, demographic, technological, and the political, legal and regulatory sectors of the firm†s external environmental on business and corporate strategy. 7. Practice in working out business strategies and implementation plans. 8. Development of habits for orderly, analytical thinking and skill in reporting conclusions effectively in both written and oral form. 9. Familiarity with so me of the practical realities of running different types of businesses. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree es.pdf This Course and Your Career Strategy can help you develop important skills for interv iewing now, and executive management responsibilities over your career. The better you understand the problems that are faced by your own company and its senior executives, the better you will be able to act to solve those problems, and the further you wil l advance in your career. Specifically, the course will aid you in: - Strategic diagnosis - with work on developing and practicing your ability to diagnose the relevant problems involved in good strategic management - Communication - through c lass participation, discussion board participation, your group presentation, your written cases, and a web page you will have the opportunity to show that you can listen, persuade and otherwise communicate in the business domain as a professional. - Em ploying the appropriate terminology and frameworks - by offering you the standard words, concepts, theories and methods that are commonly discussed in the business press and are expected from MBA graduates. In strategy we aim to understand the overall pict ure - the course is integrative and aims to improve your understanding of central business issues such as Why do some businesses succeed and others fail? What needs to be considered at the corporate level in determining what businesses to be in and how to manage them? What tools do managers have to improve business and corporate performance? Technology and Software Requirements: ‡ The software requirements are Microsoft Office Word or Adobe Acrobat Reader and Microsoft PowerPoint. If you are using a diffe rent software, it will be your responsibility to make sure that you can change its format if I have any difficulties on my end converting or downloading your attachments/assignments.. ‡ You will likely need a microphone for any recording (cost is around $15) Course Objective: Strategic management trains students in the common terminology and heuristics for analyzing the environment and selecting different corporate and business strategies. This course will also expect students to incorporate considerable critical thinking skills to address the unique challenges of today's economic climate. The course emphasizes employing cross - functional knowledge to create an integrated assessment and solution to various business problems. Strategy requires the ability to effectively communicate, and leadership and honesty are assumed. Students completing this course are expected to: --- Understand operational issues in managing a business or company in the industry and macro environment; --- Understand the importance o f working in top management teams for the management of organizations; --- Make decisions and take positions on important strategic issues, with a recognition that while there are not "right and wrong" answers, there are "good and bad" answers; --- Prov ide a holistic and comprehensive analysis of a corporation in its current economic and strategic environment. Course Assignments and How They Are Evaluated Weekly Assignments: Internet Activities, Discussion Boards, and Case Analyses (includes Team peer form) 25% Weekly Web blog Page of Strategic Concepts 25% Simulation 12.5% Midterm 12.5% Team Case Analysis Presentation 25% Weekly Assignments Each week I will post the link for the Internet session for the following week. It will have a number of activities that will be part of the "strategy" experience. In general some mini - cases or current events will be integrated into the internet sessions . By class of each week you will need to contribute to a discussion board topic. The discussion board topic will be graded on a scale similar to the class participation scale. Discussion Boards (4 at 5 points each = 20 points) Internet Activities (4 at 5 points each = 20 points) Case Analyses (2 at 20 points each = 40 points) Individual Case Analysis Write - Up (4 at 15 points each = 60 points) During the course we will conduct two case analyses. You will be asked to turn in a brief related write - up fo r the case assignment. They will be graded closely for your understanding and clarity in problem identification/solution. For your guidance, I have created a template from Dr. Wiggins' course on how to write your case analysis, linked here . Why we use the case method. Cases are widely used for management courses nationwide, as well as in - house for corporate training. It is considered to be one of the most effective methods for learning this type of material. By tackling real business problems, you improve the "practical" skills of managing - also these kinds of problems are much more messy, complex and int eresting than what you find in theory. By using this method, you are expected to be an active participant rather than a passive recipient of large amounts of disembodied information. It is also a painless way to get some vicarious experience under your bel t in a short period of time. Because these are not textbook answer situations, you will be expected to bring both your personal judgment and analytical tools to bear. Weekly Web blog Page of Strategic Concepts You will turn in a blog address (by dropbox ) that will be available for your own musings, but each week will monitor and sum up the news on a company of your choice IN RELATION TO THE CHAPTER CONCEPT FOR THAT WEEK. I will be checking your blog progress every 2 - 3 weeks, and score your progress arou nd halfway through and at the end. You will have wide latitude for this assignment - the idea is to follow a company in the blog format. Importantly, you are to use a commercial, but free, blog hosting site. Further details on making a blog page are ava ilable at How One Makes a Blog I will post the "class blog roll" list so that you can learn how other students are seeing the concepts in relation to their companies. Midterm Exam There will be one exam during the course that will cover information in the assigned readings and internet assignments. The exam is comprised of 4 questions in essay format. Questions will require that you draw on concepts and tools that have been covered, mostly from the text book. Simulation The most important lesson in strategy is that you have to make decisions with the information you have before you. You also have to learn to com municate /manage/organize the people you are expected to work with. You will be working with 2 - 3 other people in a group on the Airline simulation. See the Content syllabus for decision dates. Simulation Review Paper This is an INDIVIDUAL assignment. I t is only 2 - 3 pages, but I'd like you to think back what strategies you used, and what you learned from working in the simulated environment. Remember, one reason I push the simulation is because it drives home what real management is like - there are n o clear answers, you have to act and guess, hope and try -- something different than many other courses. It is due the last day of exam week, May 7, 2015. Team Case Analysis In the first week we will make up teams of 5 people each. Teams will be r esponsible for identifying an engaging strategic problem or issue in a major Fortune 500 company and present their analysis and recommend ations to the class in the last week via a virtual presentation. The presentation should be approximately 45 minutes, as you will also have to watch and evaluate the presentations of the other teams. Preparation . In preparing this case, the group nee ds to review the course topics and relate them to the company they are analyzing. You should be able to access the on - line data bases available from the library as well as review the current trade literature. You will probably want to consider related curr ent issues, such as technology developments, the current state of the economy, (in general as well as in the target segment), and the nature of management at the company. You need to identify key strategic events and issues, giving special attention to ch aracterizing the nature and pace of technological and competitive change. Graphs, charts, summary statistics and diagrams that compress the data into readily comprehensible material are especially suitable for these cases. Finally, you will present your a nalysis and recommendations for solving the current major problem or issue facing the company. As in the real world, you are responsible for being completely current. If late - breaking news affects your problem or recommendations, you need to incorporate it into your presentation. Each team member must participate in the formal presentation. Using a wiki site. "Wikis" are interactive sites that you can privately manage. You can use sites like wikia or PBWorks, or a UMwiki. The idea is to understand thi s group productivity tool. Presentation . Your presentation should be in PowerPoint form, and presented using ANY SOFTWARE program, or combination of programs, that you would like. The key goal is that you will, in the end, have a website link that y our classmates can access to watch your audio powerpoint presentation. The presentation should last about 45 minutes. You may incorporate video or any other material in your powerpoint to make your point. I want to hear from all the members of the tea m in these presentations. The access for your team presentation is due Friday December 4. Team peer form (5 points) I will be asking for a peer evaluation at the end of the semester. This evaluation will allow me to reconsider your grade if there is over whelming evidence from your peers that you have been free - riding. The peer form is worth 5 points. It will be due by Thurs. December 10. Final Project Review Form (15 points) The main learning you will be getting from the presentation is the chance to take time out during finals week to watch all of the presentations on the different companies. The reason we do these team projects is that we want to bring what we ha ve learned during the semester to bear on the challenges a company faces in today's environment. I have found that this has been a very efficient method for my own learning as well, and for keeping up with some detailed material on contemporary firms. Y ou will be watching the videos for all of the other team projects, and fill out the form you find here for each firm. Then, you will need to turn in all of the final project review forms to the associated dropbox. This will be what you are doing FINALS WEEK, with your write up due the last day, Thursday December 10. Quicklinks: Simulation Team Assignments Powerpoint Case Teams Class Blog List Weeks are from Monday at 12:01 am to Sunday at 11:59 pm. Therefore an assignment can be submitted anytime during that period. The course schedule is tentative and is subject to revision as necessary. Please contact me through the elearn email if you have any difficulties or questions. I would also app reciate feedback as to how I could improve the course if you have ideas. All changes will be announced on the course homepage newsfeed, discussion posting, Class Information & Questions area, and by email. Any student who anticipates physical or academic barriers based on the impact of a disability is encouraged to speak with me privately. Students with disabilities should also contact Disability Resources for Students (DRS) at 110 Wilder Tower, 901 - 678 - 2880 . DRS coordinates access and accommodations for students with disabilities. Date/Week Chapters and Topics Assignments Due 1 Aug 24 - 30 Read Chapter 1 What is Strategy? Student Information upload Blog … turn in your address Discussion Board introduction Make sure you go to the Week 1 module page in content. Prepare for Simulation Pract ice 2 Aug 31 - Sep 6 Chapter 2 Firm Performance and Competitive Advantage Internet Activity 1 • Entrepreneur's Story (turn address into dropbox) Blog submission on Chapter 2 Entrepreneurship Blogs Class Blogs Simulation Practice Week 3 Decisions!!!! 3 Sep 7 - 13 Read Chapter 3 Environmental Threats Case analysis 1: Turn into dropbox a 3 - 5 page analysis. Blog submission on Chapter 3 Launch of official Simulation 4 Sep 14 - 20 Read Chapter 4 Evaluating Opportunities Discussion Board 1 (still open from last week, it is due - with Case 1 - by Feb 15) Blog submission on Chapter 4 Simulation 5 Sep 21 - 27 Read Chapter 5 Evaluating Firm Strengths & Weaknesses: The Resource - Based View In ternet Activity 2 • Strange Group (turn address into dropbox) Blog submission on Chapter 5 Simulation 6 Sep 28 - Oct 4 Read Chapter 6 Cost Leadership Discussion Board 2 Blog submission on Chapter 6 Simulation 7 Oct 5 - 11 Read Chapter 7 Differentiation Strategies MIDTERM (Turn assignment into dropbox by Midnight Mar 8) Blog submission on Chapter 7 Simulation Spring Break (I guess..relax) Mar 9 - 15 8 Oct 12 - 18 Read Chapter 8 Flexibility: Real Options Analysis Under Risk and Uncertainty Internet Activity 3 • Interesting Blog (turn address into dropbox) Blog submission on Chapter 8 Simulation 9 Oct 19 - 25 Chapter 9 Tacit Collusion: Cooperation to Reduce Competition Discussion Board 3 Simulation Blog submission on Chapter 9 10 Oct 26 - Nov 1 Read Chapter 10 Vertical Integration Strategies Case analysis 2: Turn into drop box a 3 - 5 page analysis. Blog submission on Chapter 10 Simulation 11 Nov 2 - 8 Read Chapter 11 Diversification Strategies Internet Activity 4 • Interesting Blog (turn address into dropbox) Blog submission on Chapter 11 Simulation 12 Nov 9 - 15 Read Chapter 12 Implementing Corporate Diversification Discussion Board 4 Blog submission on Chapter 12 Simulation 13 Nov 16 - 22 Read Chapter 13 Strategic Alliances Read Chapter 14 Mergers and Acquisitions Blog submissions on Chapter 13 and Chapter 14 End of Simulation Simulation 14 Nov 23 - 29 Read Chapter 15 International Strategies SHORT WEEK Nov 30 - Dec 4 Dec 10 Final Project week Final papers Team Presentations = FINAL due Thursday Dec 4 Turn into your drop box, I will put a link up for class access for review Review the other team presentations, and provide feedback on each team on the feedback form by End of Exams: Dec 10 midnight Turn in Peer Review by End of Exams: Dec 10 Midnight Turn in your simulation review paper. Dec 10 Midnight