#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2008-2009/1108min.pdf
Meeting 382, 11/7/08 1 UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES MINUTES, Meeting 382 7 November 2008 2:00 p.m., 177B Administration Building PRESENT: L. Bennett (CAS), D. Patterson (JDST), C. Danehower (FCBE), M. Logan (CCFA), L. Schranze (MUSIC), E. Rakow (COE), Michael Grant (ICL), L. Weiss (HSS), S. Slack (ENGR), R. Koch (NURS), H. McCree (UNIV), Pat Stevens (UNIV), L. Klesges (Public Health), E. Per ry (Faculty Senate); B. Park (Libraries), K. Weddle - West (VPGS) ABSENT: -- C. Menifield (PADM), J. Brownlee (Graduate School), April Jackson (GSA), W. Thompson (CAS), Jed Jackson (ART), Matthew Parris (BIOL), D. Sherrell (MKTG), D. Wark (AUSP), C. Williams (ENTH) GUESTS: -- Ellen Watson ITD, Deborah Holder (Graduate Admissions), Wine lla Jones (Graduate Admissions), Greg Boller (B usiness) , Sanjay R Mishra (Physics) The meeting was called to order by Dr. Karen Weddle - West at 2:07 p.m. 382.1 Approval of Minutes of Meeting 381 (10/3/08): L. Bennett (2/R. Koch) moved that the minutes be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. 382.2 Announcements. There was a reminder that the December meeting will be December 11 th at 2 p.m. in room 177b A dmin istration Bldg. 382.3 Discussion Items 382.3.1 Increasing Enrollment There was a discussion on ways to increase enrollment that included efficiencies in the admission process, recruitment, the competition of public and priva te institutions, and the challenges that accompany budget cuts. The committees formed to examine retention/recruitment were discussed along with numerous ideas submitted via email. The Spring Activity Report was distributed and discussed. Since there a re about to be more budget cuts, we need to look at more enrollment strategies. More masters students applied. We have to match what our competitors are doing. Jan can start providing the council a list of students who applied to what programs (to giv e them a feel for individual applicants). 382.3.2 Efficiencies in Admission Update (identifying obstacles to efficiencies) Winella Jones and Deborah Holder , from Graduate Admissions, were introduced to the council. It was stated that two people from graduate admissions would be attending each meeting. Discussion included: t he challenges facing the graduate admissions office with the problems with B anner an d a staff of four , ways to streamline deadlines Meeting 382, 11/7/08 2 for graduate admission officers to keep them from relying on their memory, along with the antiquated method of loading GRE scores. Ways to eliminate the long process of readmission for those sitting out a se mester, other readmission issues slowing down the process, talking to the bursar about students who wait until the last minute to reapply and are faced with $100 late fees, the immunization poli c y (signing waivers for online students), problems with some d ocuments going to graduate admission while others go to the department, and other admission issues were also discussed. Need to help students understand they have to be readmitted after stopping out for even one semester . In the future look regularly at the queues and readmit those in good standing without delay. Carol Danehower and Greg Bolle r talked about the College of Business project to aid graduate admissions and improve customer relationships with students (24 hour friendly sales contact, touch points to keep people interested and keep them from applying to other institutions, getting emails out of matrix, etc ) . 382.3.3 Reviewing Program D eadlines for Admission D eadlines and efficiency were discussed . An example given was the MAT deadlines. The council was asked to talk with the graduate coordinators and find out the deadlines. Question for the department : would it be al l right if the admission counselors submit all applications to the college and they decide on admission of the student ? Discussion continued. Question: A re the deadlines realistic ? 382.3.4 Security (Ellen Watson, ITD) Ellen Watson (IDT information security officer) addressed the issue of campus data security policies with the council. State d humans are our greatest security risk. The council can call 5650 if they would like her to address their department. One handout campus data security policies was distributed. 382.4 Old Business 382.5 New Business 382.5.1 New Materials Science con centration within the MS in Physics Sanjay Mishra presented this proposal to the council. Stated that Memphis does not have this interdisciplinary program (that most major universities have) and he has received calls from companies and faculty already wo rking in this area, requesting it. There is a huge market for these types of scientists. It would begin Fall 2009 if it was approved. It was noted that Sanjay Mishra had not discussed this concentration with the biomedical faculty at the time of the meeting. There would be 3 new courses. Some of these courses are offered in mechanical engineering. Questions were raised on the thesis option, the replication of courses, the need to limit to three 6000 courses, and why 6000 cours es were Meeting 382, 11/7/08 3 needed. Rakow noted a change was need ed in the course requirements (30 at the top and 39 in the text) and the thesis option of one out of 10. The major field core needed to be balanced. Suggestions were made. K . Weddle - West note d that the progra m could still start in the fall with the necessary changes, allowing Dr. Mishra time to talk with others with similar courses and to change the 6000 courses to 7000, as well as other changes noted. A decision was made to bring this back to the table in at a later date . 382.5.2 New Entrepreneurship concentration within the MBA The concentration was discussed and described. Students could use the program as a business plan to launch their own businesses. Dr. Boller suspected there would be three new tuit ion - paying students sponsored by companies , but other MBA students interested could take the courses as well. Marketing materials would be used to launch the program. Soft do llars not institutional funds would be used. Koch asked if we were doing anything entrepreneurial to present the program. C. Danehower stated we have not but could. Online and traditional classroom delivery would be used. There is a goal of 120 new students. R. Koch moved to accept the proposal. E. Rakow seconded the motion. It was approved by voice vote . 382.5.3 New Services Marketing concentration within the MBA The concentration was discussed and described. There would primarily be four courses. Marketing materials would be used to launc h the program. Soft do llars not institutional funds would be used. R. Koch moved to accept the proposal. E. Rakow seconded the motion. It was approved by voice vote . The next meeting will be December 11 th , 2pm, AD 177b. There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 3:40 p . m. Minutes respectfully submitted by Lorraine Allen .