#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2008-2009/0908min.pdf
UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES MINUTES, Meeting 380 5 September 2008 2:00 p.m., 177B Administration Building PRESENT: L. Bennett (CAS), Matthew Parris ( BIOL ), C. Danehower (FCBE), Michael Grant ( ICL ), Jed Jackson (ART), R. Koch (NURS), C. Langs traat (ACCT) , M. Logan (CCFA), C. Menifield (PADM , proxy L. Bennett ) , D. Patterson (JDST) , E. Rakow (COE), L. Schranze (MUSIC) , S. Slack (ENGR), P. Stevens (UNIV), D. Wark (AUSP) , E. Watson (GSA), L. Weiss (HSS , proxy Michael Grant ) , C. Williams ( ENTH) ; K. Weddle - West (V PGS) ABSENT: E. Perry (Faculty Senate), D. Sherrell (MKTG), J. Brownlee (Graduate School) GUESTS: The meeting was called to order at 2:05. K. Weddle - West welcomed new and returning members. Members then introduced themselves. 380.1 Approval of minutes of meeting 379, 2 May 2008: L. Bennett moved (2/E. Rakow) that the minutes be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. 380.2 Announcements 380.2.1 Graduate Enrollment: Dr. Weddle - West announced that unofficial graduate registration of doctoral student s is up, but enrollment of masters students is down; the official tally will be made at the end of the 14 th day of classes (9/5/08). She reminded members that she is the final arbiter for late admissions and will approv e late admissions if department coor dinators agree. She also noted that increasing graduate enrollment is an important and continuing goal. This will require major changes in paradigms and much more aggressive recruitment in the face of budget deficits. We need to increase the number of domestic and international students. Chancellor Manning is particularly interested in increasing students from West Tennessee. Dr. Weddle - West drew members attention to the discrepancy between the number of applications and the number of actual enrollmen ts; reasons for this need to be discovered and addressed. She noted that a record number (62) of doctorates were awarded at the Summer Commencement; the highest number of doctorates in the history of the university. Growing graduate enrollment is challe nging because as we graduate higher numbers of students, we must recruit more students to sustain a growth pattern. We also need to be able to disaggregate certificate - seeking and doctoral students, who are otherwise combined in the statistics. We graduate 20 - 30 certificate students a year, but only know how many after they have submitted Intent to Graduate Retreat on 15 September. 380.2.2 New Majors and Co ncentrations: Since 2001, the University has added over 58 new majors and concentrations. The MSN program has grown to 186 students in just the three years since its inception. The online programs, in particular, are growing. Wherever feasible, we need to develop compressed, accelerated courses since we are now in direct competition with similar programs at Union University, Bellhaven College, Freed Hardeman, Strayer University as well as Phoenix University. With the high cost of gas and the expectatio n that prices will remain high in 2009, summer schedules in particular need be flexible and accommodating. The typical Summer schedule requires a daily commute which could add $100 - Summer school. 380.2.3 Identifying Cours attempt to count a teaching skills course towards a degree, such courses need to be identified and a note to that effect added to the course description. Each department should submit a l ist of these courses (teaching skills, reading for comps, etc.) with their course revision packet in October. N. Hurley will send out a sample statement. 380.2.4 Curricular Revisions: These revisions (excluding new programs) are due to the Graduate School by 4:30 pm on 24 October. Late submissions will not be accepted. New program deadlines are to be determined and will be announced at the next meeting. 380.2.5 Graduate School Scholarships: A summary was distributed at the meeting. L. Allen will send hard copies of th e announcement for each scholarship/fellowship to chairs and directors. 380.2.6 Woodrow Wilson Fellowship: A hard copy was distributed at the meeting. L. Allen will send copies of the announcement for this fellowship to chairs and directors. 380.3 Discussion Items 380.3.1 Ad mission to Graduate Certificate Programs: Eleven graduate certificates have been added since 2001. We need to continue to market these programs as another route to increased enrollment. They seem to particularly attract profession people who want to upg rade their skills. 380.3.2 WES Taskforce Report: Since we do not have the internal staff to evaluate international credentials, we have had to outso urce this process. This has le d to concerns about the cost to students and whether these costs are affecting their decision to apply to the University of Memphis, since their credentials must be evaluated before they can be accepted. The taskforce met several times over the summer. The result of these meetings is to give departments the option of looking over the ap plication before credentials are evaluated and to pay for the evaluation if desired. Departments may also choose to continue to use the current process. Details of procedure for the new option are still to be worked out. Members were asked to discuss this with their constituents and be prepared to vote on this at the next meeting. 380.4 Old Business 380.4.1 Update on ETDs: B. Park reported that this taskforce had met over the summer and isolated issues of concern: copyright and long term accessibility (100 years or more). M. Stout has been added to the taskforce; Michael Grant (IDT) also volunteered. A. excited about the possibility. They have concerns about how receptive the faculty are to the concept, but are willing to go through the learning curve with the faculty. Electronic submission, with the process otherwise unchanged, is another option. J. Jackson noted that art portfolios are all now submitted electronically. Eve ryone agreed that extra support is necessary before ETDs can be required. 380.5 New Business 3805.1 Course Revisions for Merchandising and Consumer Science: Due to an oversight on the sequence. The program has been approved by TBR in concept, though the name change has not yet been approved. E. Rakow moved (2/D. Wark) that the course revisions be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. J. Brownlee will load them for Spring 2 009. There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 3:15 pm. Minutes respectfully submitted by Nancy Hurley, MA.