#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2008-2009/1008min.pdf
UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES MINUTES, Meeting 381 3 October 2008 2:00 p.m., 177B Administration Building PRESENT: C. Danehower (FCBE), Michael Grant ( ICL ), April Jackson (GSA), Jed Jackson (ART), L. Klesges (Public Health), R. Koch (NURS), M . Logan (CCFA), H. McCree (UNIV), B. Park (Libraries), Matthew Parris (BIOL ), D. Patterson (JDST) , E. Rakow (COE), L. Schranze (MUSIC, proxy, M.Logan) , D. Sherrell (MKTG ; C. Danehower, proxy ), S. Slack (ENGR), P at Stevens (UNIV), D. Wark (AUSP) , L. Weiss ( HSS) , C. Williams ( ENTH) ; K. Weddle - West (VPGS), ABSENT: -- L. Bennett (CAS), C. Menifield (PADM) , E. Perry (Faculty Senate) ; J. Brownlee (Graduate School) GUESTS: -- W. Thompson (CAS) 381.1 Approval of Minutes of Meeting 380, ( 9/5/08 ) : E. Rakow (2/C. Wil liams) that the minutes be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. 381.2 Announcements 3 81.2. 1 Counci l review of curricular matters: Curricular revisions are due 24 October. Program proposals are due 1 February for consideration at the March Coun 381.2. 2 Need for representatives for Graduate Student Association (GSA) leadership council and announcement of meeting, Oct 24 GSA meeting 1 - 2 p.m: April Jackson asked for at least 2 representati ves from each college and school to attend travel meetings once a month. Graduate student travel to conferences is excellent publicity for the University; 2 students presented at the preeminent conference on childhood obesity, while 2 PhD students in comp utational biology also represented the University at a national conference. The GSA can award up to $300/student, but departments need to provide additional support. GSA representatives also organize Graduate Education Week in April and attend meetings t o minimize gaps among students, faculty, and administrators. Please send names to April before the 10/24 meeting. 381.2.3 Changing date of December Meeting : K. Weddle - West has a conflict for the regularly scheduled December meeting. Since 11 December h as already been set aside as a curricular meeting, the Council will meet on that day in AD177B, time TBA. 381.3 Old Business 381.3.1 WES policy vote : E. Rakow moved (2/R. Koch) that departments have the choice of offering to pay the cost of course evaluat ions for international applicants they wish to encourage or continuing the current policy of having applicants pay the fees before being considered for admission. The motion was carried by voice vote. 381.3.2 ETD update : B. Park reported that the committ ee is still gathering information. They have checked with the Legal Office about using published articles in the dissertation and were told to create a boilerplate permission form . Restricting access for 2 - 5 years (which UMI recommends) is another approa ch. Access to patentable research can be restricted forever. 381.4 - New Business 381.4.1 GRE Revisions : K Weddle - West showed a PowerPoint describing revisions to the GRE. ETS is happy to assist departments in developing and conducting predictive validity studies. The Personal Potential Index, also available as a stand - alone assessment, is particularly useful. 381.4. 2 Growing Graduate Enrollment : Enrollment has remained around 19,000 - 20,000 (with about 4100 - 4300 graduate students) for the last 20 years. President Raines wants total enrollment to grow to 25,000 by 2012; raising the number of graduate students to 6,000 , in part to generate much needed revenue . Otherwise, cuts in are a strong likelihood. Our competitors, no longer just the proprietar y sch ools, are reducing costs; we need progressive and aggressive thinking . Customer service needs to be improved to grow enrollment at no cost. Since the majority of our students are part - time, we need to increase online offerings and better utilize satellit e locations with accelerated cohort programs (especially in programs like the MPH and educational administration). Marketing of the University needs improvement even without any marketing, there are 20 MALS students a year at the Jackson Center. There have been significant decreases in professional like the MAT and MBA , except for the MSN. hich do not need the GRE ( not a good predictor of success in professional programs anyway) and pr ocess students in cohorts. Lack of resources restricts growth , but we have to remember that the proprietary schools generally have abysmal graduation rates, especially at the undergraduate level. There has also been a decline in the number of internation al students following 9/11 last year China awarded more PhDs in the sciences and engineering than did the US. 381.4.3 Expediting Graduate Admissions : In some programs speeding up notification of admission can help enrollment. How many departments are usi ng MATRIX? Not everyone has been trained or has access and there are various problems, such as accessing MATRIX after the student has been approved. These need to be addressed. 381.4.4 Study Abroad Graduate Committee : K. Weddle - West called for voluntee rs to serve on this committee, which is chaired by Shannon Blanton and Rebecca Laumann. D. Patterson and C. Williams volunteered. The next meeting is scheduled for 24 October. There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 3:15 pm. Minut es respectfully submitted by Nancy Hurley, MA.