#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2008-2009/0209min.pdf
Meeting 38 4, 2/6/09 1 UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES MINUTES, Meeting 384 6 February 2009 2:00 p.m., 177B Administration Building PRESENT: L. Bennett (CAS), C. Danehower (FCBE), M. Grant ( ICL, proxy L. Weiss ), J . Jackson (ART), L. Klesges (Public Health), M. Logan (CCFA), C. Menifield (PADM) , B. Park (Libraries), Matthew Parris (BIOL ), D. Patterson (JDST) , E. Perry (Faculty Senate), E. Rakow (COE , proxy L. Weiss ), L. Schranze (MUSIC) , D. Sherrell (MKTG), P . Stevens (UNIV), M. Teal (GSA), D. Wark (AUSP) , L. Weiss (HS S) , C. Williams ( ENTH) ; K. Weddle - West (VPGS) ABSENT: J. Brownlee (Graduate School) , R. Koch (NURS), H. McCree (UNIV), J. Thieme (MKTG), S. Slack (ENGR) 1. Approval of Minutes of Meeting 383, 12/11/08 . N. Hurley noted that E. Rakow had requested a revis K. Weddle - West asked the Department of Health and Sport Science and the Fogelman College of Business and Economics to discuss possible collaboration on the Sport Commerce program, which may possess the potential to become an MBA concentration [revised text in italics]. The minutes were approved with the revision. 2. Announcements 2.1 Increasing Enrollment : Applicant lists were sent to departments. The backlog was due to illness among the Graduate Admissions staff, but thanks to volunteers from IDT and HR, the queues are down to 70 applications to process for Fall admission. K. Weddle - West asked departments to please process them in a timely manner and to do readmits first. Departments should review applications periodically with out waiting for deadlines, which should be flexible whenever possible. Increasing enrollment is the only way to increase funding at this time; fortunately, activity levels are up. 2.2 Efficiencies in Admissions Update (Identifying obstacles to efficiencies) : More people are doing coding and scanning in order to get DRFs out more quickly. 2.3 Revision of Graduate Grade Appeals process : Revision is being made to better accommodate timelines and to develop a policy for dealing with charges of prejudice, especially among outside staff such as clinical faculty, preceptors, and student teaching supervisors. Meeting 38 4, 2/6/09 2 2.4 Graduate Study Abroad Guidelines and Application : Are being r evised to accommodate graduate student needs. Committee members should contact D. Patterson for sugges tions. 3. D iscussion Items 3.1 Graduate School Recruitment Fair (March 2, 2009 , 1:00 - 5:00 p.m. , Rose Theatre): Flyers are in and will be placed in local venues such as bookstores, libraries, etc. as well as on campus. President Raines wants to recruit our own u ndergraduates, so programs such as Emerging Leaders, Golden Key, Black Scholars, and Honors are being contacted. The marketability of students who get their masters degree at the same school where they got their bachelors is not affected, especially when there has been cross - disciplinarity in the degrees. In addition to graduate programs, representatives from Financial Aid, Career Services, and Graduate Admissions will be there. Students will be able to submit online applications through a bank of laptops onsite. 3.2 Graduate Education Week in Tennessee (March 30 - April 3, 2009) is a valuable tool for letting legislators know how important graduate education is for the state. 3.2.1 Select a student representative for 1 April on Legislative Plaza in Nashville : Each in stitution sends one representative to showcase his/her research and be introduced to the Legislature, which likes research relevant to the community. Send names of possible student representatives to N. Hurley by 2/13; the Council will choose one by 2/20. 3.2.2 Student Research Forum (March 30, 2009, Rose Theatre) : Space is extremely limited, so only the first 100 applicants can be accepted. Although the due date is 6 March, applications are already coming in to the Graduate School. Judges will be needed: in a ddition to faculty possibilities include local politicians, advisory board members, and donors. 3.3 Graduate Grade Appeals committee : L. Weiss, J. Jackson, P. Stevens, and C. Menifield volunteered as Appeals Committee members and alternates from the Council. M. Teal will recruit 3 regular and 3 alternate members from the GSA. K. Weddle - West will appoint one regular and one alternate member from the general faculty. The slate was approved by voice vote. 3.4 Review of Credentials for International Applicants : The new process is going smoothly, allowing departments to review applications early and pay for the credentialing review if they wish. So far there has been only one problem. 3.5 Fogelman College Graduate Applicant Retention and Customer Service : C. Danehower d summary of how it works. It is already getting results, facilitating admissions. The personal service is very positive and allows the college to know who is applying. Programs, particularly t he larger ones such as the MBA, MAT, and Nursing, can create their own Hyperion reports with some training. Meeting 38 4, 2/6/09 3 3.6 Number of Hours that Can Be Transferred into a Graduate Certificate Program : After some discussion, M. Logan moved that no more than 1/3 of a certi ficate program can be transfer credit hours. The motion was carried by voice vote. 4. Old Business: There was no old business. 5. New Business: 5.1 M.Teal gave an update on the next GSA meeting and reported that there are representatives from each c ollege, but not each program. 5.2 B.Parks reported that copyright is still the biggest challenge to ETDs; limiting access seems to be the best solution. She will have a full report for the March meeting. 5.3 E. Perry reported that there was no update fro m the Faculty Senate. 5.4 L. Klesges reported that the School of Public Health now has a student association. There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 2:55 p.m. Minutes respectfully submitted by Nancy Hurley.