#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2008-2009/0309min.pdf
Meeting 385, 3/6/09 1 UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES MINUTES, Meeting 385 6 March 2009 2:00 p.m., 177B Administration Building PRESENT: L. Bennett (CAS), C. Danehower (FCBE), L. Klesges (Public Health), R. Koch (NURS), M. Logan (CCFA), C. Menifield (PADM ; L. Bennet t, proxy ) , D. Patterson (JDST ; L. Bennett, proxy ) , Michael Grant ( ICL , L. Weiss, proxy ), B. Park (Libraries), Matthew Parris (BIOL ), E. Perry (Faculty Senate), E. Rakow (COE), L. Schranze (MUSIC ; M. Logan, proxy ) , D. Sherrell (MKTG ; C. Danehower, proxy ), S . Slack (ENGR), P at Stevens (UNIV), Matthew Teal (GSA), J. Thieme (MKTG), D. Wark (AUSP) , L. Weiss (HSS) , C. Williams ( ENTH) ; K. Weddle - West (VPGS), ABSENT: Jed Jackson (ART); J. Brownlee (Graduate School) GUESTS: B. Cross (ICL), M. Levy (PUBH), L. McGi llivray (ICL), S. Mishra (PHYS), S. Popham (ENGL) The meeting was called to order at 2:10 pm. 385.1 Approval of Minutes of Meeting 384, 2/6/09 . L. Bennett moved (2/E. Rakow) that the minutes be approved as written. The motion was carried by voice vote. 385.2 Announc ements 385.2.1 Increasing Enrollment : After distributing the Fall Application Activity Report for 3/2/09, K. Weddle - West pointed out that application activity and undergraduate acceptances are up. However, there are still some 900 graduate applications waiting to be processed by the departments , which should investigate ways of streamlining their approval process . Dr. Faudree has sent a memo to all departments that applicants should be notified by 20 March of the status of their application. K. Weddle - West noted proprietary schools, which admit without review, but can and does compete wit h area universities such as CBU and Union University. 385.2.2. Efficiencies in Admissions Update (Identifying obstacles to efficienci es) : Graduate Admissions is in the process of hiring another admissions officer to help speed up processing. 385.2.3. Update on Online Programs: Growth in online programs is easy to accomplish if the courses are already in place. All that is required is to notif y TBR of the online delivery. All online programs can be marketed as a group. 385.2.3.1 Approved: ESL online has been approved by TBR. Meeting 385, 3/6/09 2 385.2.3.2. Submitted: TBR has been notified of the following changes to online delivery: Leadership concentration in MS in Leadership and Policy Studies; Sport Commerce concentration in MS in Human Movement Science; MS in Instruction and Curriculum Leadership . 385.2.4 Introduce Trish Woodman, new dissertation coach . Unfortunately, Dr. Woodman could not be at the meeting , but K. Weddle - West explained what her role will be and that dissertation coaching is a best practice that works well elsewhere in shortening time to degree and improving completion rate. Dr. Woodman wants feedback from the colleges about what is holding their students back; please email her at triciawoodman@mac.com . 385.3 Discussion Items 385.3.1 Additional THEC requirements for Academic Program Proposals and Letters of Intent . Dr. Weddle - West drew Council m outlining additional requirements for program proposals. The THEC Financial Projections form must now accompany the Letter of Intent and the letter must y external funding is pending (on approval), and use of no new state funds for start - noted that THEC approval will only be granted through interim action over the next year and no new program proposals will be considered at the regular T HEC meetings. K. Weddle - West noted that this does not apply to certificate programs. 385.3.2 Graduate Education Week : Kelsey Fisher - Wellman from EXSS has been chosen to represent the University at the State Legislature on 1 April 2009. Judges are still needed f or the Student Research Forum on 3/30/39. To date , 60 applications have been received. T here is space only fo r 50 tables (100 presentations) unless another venue is chosen; Brister 220 was suggested. Need a couple of students to make presentations while the judges are making their tallies; Kristen Walker (Psychology) and Pam Hurley (Architecture) were suggested. 385.3.3 Update on Recruitment Fair : The fair was very successful, drawing about 300 attendees, many from off campus, at a very reasonable cost of about $1000. The interaction among programs was very beneficial, opening up possibilities for interdisciplinary work. The fair will be repeated, probably in September , perhaps on a Friday . In addition, the Graduate School will have a recruitment table at eac h commencement from now on. 385.3.4 Competitiveness: Two suggestions were made; more will be welcome. 385.3.4.1 Accelerated Online Programs : Cohort - driven accelerated online programs are a valuable tool to increase competitiveness . Dr. Weddle - West urged Council members to begin discussion in their colleges about developing such programs , particularly in Arts and Sciences and Education. 385.3.4.2 Programs (e.g. MSN, MAT, MPS, MALS) : This is ano ther competitiveness issue. ETS says that the GRE is not predictive for professional degrees. K. Weddle - West asked Meeting 385, 3/6/09 3 Council members to begin a dialogue with their constituents about possible alternatives, such as portfolios or accepting experience. 385.3.5 Recru iting rejected applicants from competitive programs : There was no discussion of this topic. 385.3.6 Revised Graduate Grade Appeals Procedures : L. Klesges moved (2/E. Rakow) that the revisions proposed by Sherri Lipman, University Legal Counsel, be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. 385.4 Old Business : There was no old business. 385.5 New Business 385.5.1 Modification of MPH concentrations : L. Klesges introduced Dr. Marian Levy, who summarized the modifications to the MPH concentrations. These modif ications are required to meet the competencies set forth by the Council on Education for Public Health; one student must be graduated from each concentration in order to become accredited. The School has discussed the biostatistics courses with Nursing an d Biomedical Engineering; the titles have been modified to Biostatistical Methods I and Biostatistic al Methods II and the required text book has been changed. It was pointed out that all of the courses in the Health Systems Management concentration are ta ught in other departments; a question was raised about whether ECON 7710 would be offered regularly enough to meet Public Health requirements. C. Danehower replied that it would. K. Weddle - West suggested that a committee be convened to investigate cross - discipline coordination of courses; R. Koch, L. Klesges, and C. Williams were asked to serve along with faculty members not on the Council ; M. Teal will ask a graduate student. It was also noted that the budget submitted was actually the budget for the wh ole School of Public Health; a new budget for the concentrations alone, showing no new expenditures, will be submitted along with revised New Course Requests for Biostatistical Methods I and II. E. Rakow moved (2/L. Weiss) that the proposal be approved wi th the suggested course changes and revised budget. The motion was carried by voice vote. 385.5.2 Close out ENTH concentrations : C. Williams presented this proposal, which has already been done at the undergraduate level and will result in cost savings and increased enrollment. L. Bennett moved (2/E. Rakow) that the proposal be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. 385.5.3 Close out PADM concentration in Urban Management and Planning : L. Bennett ertificate in Local Government Management has made this concentration superfluous. R. Koch moved (2/E. Rakow) that the proposal be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. 385.5.4 Health Care Writing Certificate : Susan Popham presented this propos al, which will use existing courses in English and Communication and be the first program of its kind in the nation. However, the proposal would be strengthened by the inclusion of data showing the need for such a program. Letters of support should also be included. The proposal was tabled until such material can be gathered. L. Klesges offered to work with Dr. Popham in strengthening the proposal. Meeting 385, 3/6/09 4 385.5.5 Materials Science concentration within MS in Physics : Dr. Mishra explained how earlier questions h ad been addressed, noting that the new concentration should increase enrollment. He also noted that graduate enrollment has already grown from 2 students in 1999 to 20 in 2009 . Dr. Weddle - West suggested that the enrollment figures on p. 7 should be modifi ed since they now reflect only the TBR minimum requirement. She explained that the proposal will be posted on the TBR website for 30 days (in reality, usually 60 days) for comment; if there are no objections at the end of that time, TBR will issue a lette r of approval. At that time, the new concentration can be marketed and will be open for enrollment. R. Koch moved (2/M. Logan) that the proposal be approved; the motion was carried by voice vote. 385.5.6 Urban Education Certificate : Dr. Cross introduced this proposal from the Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership. Research has shown that this kind of training combats teacher turnover, which in turn leads to better student success. The 12 - credit - hour graduate certificate was developed in col laboration with the Memphis City Schools Executive Leadership program, which already has a cohort of 20 signed up to enroll as soon as the program is approved. Courses will be offered in the evenings and during the summer. At this point students will pay their own fees, but the department is working on obtaining grants to cover tuition. Crichton College has already announced a similar program. E. Rakow moved (2/C. Danehower) that the proposal be approved; the motion was carried by voice vote. 385.5.7 Lit eracy Leadership and Coaching Certificate : Dr. McGillivray introduced this proposal from the Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership. She explained that students can receive an endorsement in reading by taking 3 courses, but that a coaching c ertificate will enable them to lead teachers, especially new ones, and to write curriculum. MCS is very enthusiastic about this program, since they currently are using untrained teachers in this role . It will be a 15 - hour accelerated, online, cohort prog ram that can be completed in one summer and one fall semester. Two new courses are proposed in addition to the existing 3 reading courses; this will enable students to obtain an endorsement in reading at the same time. It is proposed that all courses wil l count toward an MS in Instruction and Curriculum leadership with a concentration in Reading. This last point elicited some discussion and a decision was taken to revisit the policy about applying courses to two degrees. Dr. Weddle - West asked that enrol lment figures be revised to 20. L. Bennett moved (2/L. Weiss) that the proposal be approved with revised enrollment figures; the motion was carried by voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 4 pm. Minutes respectfully submitted by N. Hurley, MA.