#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2008-2009/0409min.pdf
Meeting 386, 4 - 3 - 09 1 UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES MINUTES, Meeting 386 3 April 2009 2:00 p.m., 177B Administration Building PRESENT: L. Bennett (CAS), C. Danehower (FCBE), Jed Jackson (ART), L. Klesges (Public Health), R. Koch (NURS ; D. Wark, proxy ), M. Logan (C CFA), C. Menifield (PADM) , D. Patterson (JDST) , Michael Grant ( ICL ), B. Park (Libraries), Matthew Parris (BIOL ), E. Rakow (COE), L. Schranze (MUSIC) , D. Sherrell (MKTG ; C. Danehower, proxy ), S. Slack (ENGR), P at Stevens (UNIV), Matthew Teal (GSA), J. Thiem e (MKTG), D. Wark (AUSP) , L. Weiss (HSS ; Michael Grant, proxy ) , C. Williams ( ENTH) ; K. Weddle - West (VPGS), T. Woodman (Graduate School) ABSENT: E. Perry (Faculty Senate), J. Brownlee (Graduate School) 386.1 Approval of Minutes of Meeting 385 (3/6/09) : L . Bennett Moved (2/E. Rakow) that the minutes be approved as written. The motion was carried by voice vote. 386.2 Announcements 1. Increasing Enrollment : We have a higher number of acceptances at this time than we did at the same time last year. The qu eues are down from a high of 900; some are in the queue because they lack departmental requirements. At the moment, there are more out - of - state masters, but fewer doctoral applications. Some departments are still making decisions about doctoral applicant s. Dr. Weddle - West thanked department representatives and urged departments to continue to enhance efficiencies in the admissions process. 2. Introducing Tricia Woodman : Dr. Weddle - West introduced the newest member of the Graduate School staff, who is currently working part - time on a volunteer basis. Dr. Woodman is a dissertation coach who is currently working with students in the College of Education to increase their completion rate. 386.3 Discussion Items : There were no discussion items. 386.4 Old Business 1. ETDs: Open Access Dissertations : Betsy Park work. The Committee has always been in favor of ETDs, but details have had to be ironed out. ITD and the Library are investigating open access software. The c ommittee will meet with the ALC on 8 April to discuss tech support. The goal is to widely accept ETDs by the end of the summer, beginning with voluntary submission that will hopefully Meeting 386, 4 - 3 - 09 2 become mandatory soon. . This will enhance the University and give stu dents much more visibility. 2. Study/Research Abroad Guidelines, revised . In discussion, the Council recommended that students be required to clarify that research is directly related to the proposed trip and to include a statement of expected costs. A s tatement will be added that establishes funding priorities in order to support as many students as possible. The deadlines will be set by the Study Abroad office. M. Logan moved (2/C. Williams) that the new guidelines be accepted with stated revisions. T he motion was carried by voice vote. 386.5 New Business 1. Emergency curricular revisions in Education : E. Rakow presented these proposed revisions, all geared to increasing enrollment. The Department of Health and Sport Sciences proposes 1) to add the op thesis to the Human Movement Science concentration, and 2) changing the name of this concentration to Health and Sport Science to reflect the name of the department and attract more students. The Departmen t of Instruction and Curriculum proposes 1) to change the grading of ICL 8995 from S, U, IP to S, U, I so that both semesters will count toward the degree, and 2) to change the minimum requirements for the MS and MAT to 30 hours to match requirements of re gional and online graduate programs and requests from local school districts. L. Bennett moved (2/M. Grant) that these four proposals be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. 2. New Graduate School Policy governing number of certificate credit hours to be applied to another degree : As a follow - up to the discussion at the M arch meeting (see 385.5.7), L. Bennett proposed a new Graduate School policy concerning the number of hours earned in a graduate certificate program that can be applied to a g raduate degree. It read as follows: certificate program may be accepted up to a maximum of 12 hours and for no more than one - third of the required hours of the degree program. Cre dit will be applied to the degree program. Normal time limitations toward the degree program will apply for hours Dr. Weddle - West asked that the directors take this proposal before their college councils for feedback prior to a vote by the University Council in May. 3. Change in admissions policy for MBA programs : C. Danehower introduced the following four proposals from the College of Business and Economics as a group in the spirit of GMAT if the applicant has 5 years managerial experience and acceptable portfolio is a growing trend nationally and is already in place at UTK. Thi s will attract more applicants, as many of them have as much as 25 years of managerial experience. accreditation. C. Menifield noted that Public and Nonprofit Administration has discovered that there is no statistical difference between waiver and non - waiver students, bearing out the fact that the GRE and the GMAT are not good predictors of success for professional masters programs. Since there are 166 graduate proprietary programs in Tennessee enrolling over 70K stude nts, it is important to increase the competitiveness of the University of Memphis. C. Menifield moved (2/E. Rakow) that the proposed revision be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. 4. Termination of two concentrations in MSBA program (MGMT a nd MKTG) : Enrollment in these two concentrations has historically been low and they require specialized courses that are no longer supported. There are no students in either program currently. M. Meeting 386, 4 - 3 - 09 3 Logan moved (2/C. Menifield) that the proposal be approved . The motion was carried by voice vote. 5. IMBA program revision : This revision is to bring the core into line with the core in other MBA programs, resulting in a 57 - hour program instead of a 59 - hour one. The core has been increased, necessitating elimina tion of some electives . There was some discussion of the GA section of the catalog copy; the college needs to make clear that a 10 - hour assistantship is half time, resulting in the student receiving only half tuition. D. Wark moved (2/E. Rakow) that the IMBA program revision be approved with noted revisions to the GA section. The motion was carried by voice vote. There being no further business the meeting was adjourned. Minutes respect ful ly submitted by Nancy Hurley, MA, Recording Secretary.