#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2008-2009/0509min.pdf
Meeting 387, 5 - 1 - 09 1 UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES MINUTES, Meeting 387 1 May 2009 2:00 p.m., 177B Administration Building PRESENT: L. Bennett (CAS), C. Danehower (FCBE), Jed Jackson (ART), L. Klesges (Public Health), R. Koch (NURS), M. Logan (CCFA), C. Menifield (PADM) , D. Patterson (JDST) , Michael Grant ( ICL ), B. Park (Libraries), Matthew Parris (BIOL ; L. Bennett, proxy ), E. Rakow (COE), L. Schranze (MUSIC ; M. Logan, proxy ) , D. Sherrell (MKTG ; C. Danehower, proxy ), S. Slack (ENGR), J. Thieme (MKTG), D. Wark (AUS P ; R. Koch, proxy ) , L. Weiss (HSS) , C. Williams ( ENTH) ; K. Weddle - West (VPGS), T. Woodman (Graduate School) ABSENT: E. Perry (Faculty Senate), P at Stevens (UNIV ), Matthew Teal (GSA); J. Brownlee (Graduate School) GUESTS: L. Brooks (MIS), J. Dhaliwal ( MIS), M. Gillenson (MIS); B. Mullins Nelson (LEAD), K. Meyer (LEAD); M. Sunderman (FIR) ; M. Stout (Graduate School) K. Weddle - West opened the meeting with cake and punch in honor of C. Danehower, who is stepping down from her position as Associate Dean fo r Academic Programs in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics to return to the faculty, and N. Hurley, who is retiring at the end of August. Gifts were presented to both Dr. Danehower and Ms. Hurley. 387.1 Approval of Minutes of Meeting 386, 3 A pril 2009 : L. Bennett moved (2/E. Rakow) that the minutes be approved as written. The motion was carried by voice vote. 387.2 Announcements 387.2.1 Growing Enrollment : K. Weddle - West announced that we continue to admit more graduate students , so far 82 out of state , and thanked departments for going into queues promptly. The federal stimulus program gives the University 2 years before feeling the $8 million reversion to the state. Increasing graduate enrollment by 1000 will yield $5 million. Departmen ts can do late admits up to the fifth day of class. 387.2.2: Dates have been set for the two orientation programs and draft schedules were distributed. 387.2.2.1 The Teaching Effectiveness Workshop for Graduate Teaching Assistants will be held on 25 Aug ust from 8 am to noon. Department s should send all GTAs to this workshop. The Graduate School is still seeking Meeting 387, 5 - 1 - 09 2 someone to discuss teaching as an interactive experience; Dr. Weddle - West asked for suggestions. 387.2.2.2 Graduate Student Orientation will be held on 28 August from 10 am to 1:50 pm. Lunch will be served at this orientation program. 387.4 Old Business : 387.4.1 Vote on application of certificate hours toward graduate degree : L. Bennett moved (2/C. Danehower) that the following statemen t concerning certificate hours be inserted into the catalog: earned in a graduate certificate program may be accepted up to a maximum of 12 hours and for no more than one - third of the required hours of the degree program. Credit will be applied to the degree program only upon approval of the toward the degree program apply for hours earned in a graduate certificate program. only 30 hours and suggested that the phrase - third of be deleted. L. Bennett accepted this suggestion. A question was r aised whether a student who has already earned a TBR discourages double counting ; Dr. Weddle - West will look into the suggestion, ion , was carried and the statement will be added to the catalog. 387.5 New Business 387.5.1 ETD Update (processes for submission and timeline) : B. Parks reminded Council members that the final product (thesis or dissertation) will be archived electronica lly; the review process remains unchanged. The vast majority of documents, with separate files for each chapter or section. M. Stout distributed a template showing how electronicall y archived theses and dissertations should be organized . The U of M is one of the last institutions in the state not to require electronic archiving. There will be a soft roll - out, culminating in required electronic archiving in Fall 2010. This is a joi nt project involving McWhorter Library, the ALC, Information Technology Division, and the Graduate School. There will be training sessions. L. Bennett moved (2/M. Logan) that the suggested timeline be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. Dr. Weddle - West then asked for suggestions for members of an implementation committee to identify what faculty members need to know about the process. Cedar Nordbye, Larry Schranze, Jasbir Dhaliwal, Charles Hall, Robert Jackson, Joe Meeting 387, 5 - 1 - 09 3 Matesich, and Michelle St out were suggested; Betsy Park volunteered to serve as a member, but asked not to be named chair. 387.5.2 Software Testing Certificate from MIS Department : C. Danehower introduced the three faculty members from MIS, who presented the certificate proposa l. This certificate is a natural outcome from FedEx and the over 300 participants from several companies in its STEP (Systems Testing Excellence Program) training programs. The certificate requires 12 hours, which includ research workshops on this topic have attracted international students and are revenue - producing, a portion of which is returned to the Vice Provost for Research. Both degree - seekin g and non - degree students will enroll in the program. This certificate program will increase the technology transfer FIT has been doing with India through the STEP program. Dr. Weddle - West suggested that the enrollment projections should be increased. E . Rakow moved (2/L. Weiss) that the proposal be approved with revised enrollment projections. The motion was carried by voice vote. 387.5.3 Renaming Real Estate Development concentration to Real Estate : M. Sunderman introduced this proposal, which includ es a revision of program requirements as well as renaming the concentration. This has been in the works for about two years. The old title is too narrow; the new title is more descriptive of the scope of the program. The program revisions will make the p rogram more flexible and appealing to students, many of whom are working professionals. It gives students the opportunity to take courses outside finance and real estate and is the first interdisciplinary effort in the College of Business. M. Logan (2/E. Rakow) moved that the name change be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. R. Koch moved (2/E. Rakow) that the program changes be approved. This motion was also carried by voice vote. 387.5.4 Three graduate certificates in Nursing ( Nursing A dministration, Nursing Education, Health Care Informatics ) : R. Koch asked that these proposals be tabled until the Fall, as the faculty still have some questions. 387.5.5 New concentration in Doctoral program in HIAD: Organizational Leadership & Higher Education : B. Mullins Nelson introduced this proposal for a new concentration to be taught online with one course offered by Tennessee Technological University. Suggestions were made to make the course titles more descriptive of the content . It was also suggested that the whole degree be offered online. Several general points about online doctoral programs were raised during the discussion. A question was raised about the meaning of residency for an online degree. Meeting 387, 5 - 1 - 09 4 having two virtual meetings a month between the student and faculty member. Another point raised was that students suffer from not having access to the U of M lib rary and TBR should be asked about how this is being addressed. C. Williams moved (2/M. Logan) that the proposal be approved with the suggested revisions to course titles. The motion was approved by voice vote. 387.5.6 National Research Council Assessme nt of Doctoral Programs Update : Dr. Weddle West reported that there continue to be delays in releasing the report due to the large number of programs being evaluated. The methodology report is due in June, with the final report scheduled to be released s hortly afterward. Participating in this study gives us a good toolkit for marketing: we should be at least midrange in most programs. The report validates that we are a Research University/High Activity institution as classified by the Carnegie Foundation. Dr. Weddle - West was one of only four graduate deans to address 100 members of the US Congress about the need to increase funding for graduate school, particularly for domestic women and minorities. at the Library of Congress during the recent meeting of the Council of Graduate Schools in Washington . One of our doctoral graduates in Philosophy, Dr. Kristie Dotson, was also invited to speak. Dr. Weddle - West announced that she will serve as a representative on the GRE Board. ETS is in the process of revising the GRE, and she asked for any suggestions the Council and its constituents may have for improving the GRE. She reminded Council members that the GRE ha s predictive validity only at the research/ doctoral le v el and shows h igher research productivity of graduates and it predicts GPA for the first year. It is not a good this purpose. Not on Agenda: Dr. Rakow distributed hard copies of three c hanges from the College of Education that would have an impact on the upcoming accreditation visit. The changes were: 1) to change credit hours from 3 to variable 1 - 3 in CPSY 8501, Independent Study; 2) to change the name of one Counseling concentration f rom Community Agency Counseling to Clinical Mental Health Counseling; and 3) to create a second 60 - hour track (required for professional licensure) within the Rehabilitation Counseling concentration. There was a good deal of discussion, mainly about the ti ming of these proposals. It was finally suggested that the Council could consider program proposals on a rolling basis, but only publish the catalog once a year. It was also suggested that the Council be given at least two weeks to consider proposals and that exceptions be made only for compelling reasons. A motion was made, seconded, and approved that the proposals be Meeting 387, 5 - 1 - 09 5 sent electronically to the Council for an e - mail vote by Friday, 8 May. The proposals were approved by electronic vote. There being no fu rther business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:20 pm. Minutes respectfully submitted by Nancy Hurley.