#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2007-2008/0408min.pdf
Meeting 378, 4/11/08 1 UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES MINUTES, Meeting 37 8 11 April 2008 3 :00 p.m., 177B Administration Building PRESENT: L. Bennett (CAS), C. Danehower (FCBE), A. Istvan (GSA), R. Koch (NURS), C. Langstraat (ACCT) , C. Menifield (PADM) , D. Patterson (JD ST) , H. Perkins ( ICL ), E. Rakow (COE), D. Sherrell (MKTG), S. Slack (ENGR), N. Wallace (ART), L. Weiss (HSS) , C. Williams ( ENTH) ; K. Weddle - West (VPGS) ABSENT: D. Arant (UNIV), J. Brownlee (Graduate School) , R. Cox (ESCI), M. Logan (CCFA), B. Park (Librari es), E. Perry (Faculty Senate), L. Schranze (MUSIC) , D. Wark (AUSP) , GUESTS: K. Kreitner (Music), P.M. Stevens (University College) The meeting was called to order at 3: 0 7 pm when a quorum was achieved. 378.1 Approval of minutes of Meeting 377, 14 March 2008 . L. Bennett moved (2/E. Rakow) that the minutes be approved as written. The motion was carried by voice vote. 378.2 Announcements 378.2.1 WES Task Force Update : K. Weddle - West explained that we do not want to discourage international applicants by maki ng the process too expensive. The task force first decided to recommend that departments make an informal admission decision based would then send the transcripts to W ES and pay for the verification. However, this - examining the problem. In the meantime, she reminded the Council that the Graduate School will accept verifications from a ny organization that is a member of NACES. It really comes down to the fact that the Graduate Admissions office is too small and has no one trained to assess international degrees so the University has to rely on outside experts. 378.2.2 C. Danehower ann ounced that p rogram revisions to the MBA and two graduate certificates from MIS will be proposed at the May meeting. The MBA prerequisites will be deleted , to be covered by the new core courses. The basic 33 - hour MBA will be retained and two new concentr ations (Biomedical Management and Professional) will be added. These changes are being proposed to improve enrollment in the MBA program. The MIS department will also be proposing two graduate certificates, Systems Testing and Project Management. Meeting 378, 4/11/08 2 378.2.3 representatives. 378.2.4 Student Research Forum: K. Weddle - West announced that this was the largest one so far, with 100 graduate and 26 undergraduate submissions, and thanke d everyone who served as a judge. The exhibition at the Legislative Plaza and the booklets distributed there are good tool s graduate study and hopefully will lead to increased fundin g. She also asked Council members to check their calendars for conflicts next year, since the College of Education was unable to participate this year because of the NCATE visit. 378.3 Old Business: There was no old business. 378.4 New Business 378.4.1 Election of representative to serve on Graduate Study Abroad Selection Committee . K. Weddle - West explained that the new international study fee has provided approximately $40 0 ,000 to support study abroad, which will now encompass dissertation research as well as more traditional types of study. Research and language study should take priority over conferences. Therefore, graduate representatives are needed on the admissions committee. C. Menifield, E. Rakow, C. Williams, D. Patterson volunteered. L. Be nnett noted that the CAS Study Abroad Committee meets only two or three times a year. K. Weddle - West suggested using the GSA system for awarding travel funds as a model. 378.4.2 Artist Diploma : K. Kreitner introduced the proposal for an Artist Diploma in violin and voice. This proposed certificate program is performance oriented and includes two recitals. It will fill a need for performers who are not interested in earning a traditional MMU, PhD, or DMA, all of which include a considerable academic rese arch component. Additional instruments can be added as the need arises. The fact that this is a certificate program although it is called a diploma arises from the fact that standard music nomenclature varies from standard TBR nomenclature. TBR will be a pprised of this difference. L. Bennett moved (2/C. Menifield) that the proposed Artist Diploma be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. 378.4. 3 Centralizing Documents Processing for Graduate Admissions : T. Nenon and W. Akey are investigatin g more efficient ways of handling admission applications, such as uploading letters of reference. The School of Audiology and Speech - Language Pathology uses a school s in the nation simultaneously. The American Psychological Association is working to create a similar system . The university would like to create such a system in which all information is loaded, sorted, and distributed in one file instead of the discret e files Banner Meeting 378, 4/11/08 3 uses. E. Rakow, C. Nordbye, A. Edwards, J. Matesich, and someone from A & S make up a committee with Drs. Nenon and Akey. R. Koch volunteered at the Council meeting . K.Weddle - West also asked whether any of the members knew someone from another university which has done this. No one did. 378.4. 4 Formation of an Electronic Thesis & Dissertation (ETD) Task Force : In her presentation during Graduate Education Week, Dr. Cathleen May stressed that only the final submission of a thesis or dissertation need be electronic. Students can submit review copies in any format their committee prefers. K. Weddle - West recommends accepting both formats hard copy and electronic while encouraging electronic sub mission. Betsy Park , Head of the Reference Department and ex officio member of this Council, will chair the ETD Task Force; members will include A. Istvan, L. Bennett, L. Weiss, and R. Koch. The task force will investigate library resources for storing a nd accessing ETDs, funding, and other issues. The University expects to have everything in place to submit ETDs by the end of the year; UT - K, MTSU, and Tennessee State already do. There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:10 pm. M inutes respectfully submitted by Nancy Hurley, MA