#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2007-2008/0508min.pdf
Meeting 379, 5/2/08 1 UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES MINUTES, Meeting 37 9 2 May 2008 2:00 p.m., 177B Administration Building PRESENT: L. Bennett (CAS), R. Cox (ESCI), C. Danehower (FCBE), C. Langstraat (ACCT) , M. Logan (CCFA), C. Menifield (PADM) , H. Perkins ( ICL , L. Weiss proxy ), E. Rakow (COE , L. Weiss proxy ), L. Schranze (MUSIC) , D. Sherrell (MKTG), S. Slack (ENGR), L. Weiss (HSS) , C. Williams ( ENTH , S. Slack proxy ) ; K. Weddle - West (VPGS) ABSENT: D. Arant (UNIV), A. Istvan (GSA), R. Koch (NURS), D. Patterson (JD ST) , E. Perry (Faculty Senate), N. Wallace (ART), D. Wark (AUSP) ; J. Brownlee (Graduate School) , B. Park (Libraries) GUESTS: G.W. Boller ( MKTG; MBA Program Director ); M. Gillenson ( MIS ), D. Lattimore (UNIV) The meeting was called to order at 2:10 pm when a quorum was achieved. 379.1 Approval of Minutes of Meeting 378, 11 April 2008 : L. Bennett moved (2/D. Sherrell) that the minutes be approved as written. The motion was carried by voice vote. 379.2 Announcements 379.2.1 Graduate Education and the Public Good : K. Weddle - West announced that the Council of Graduate Schools has released their report on this survey . Our students Justin Zook and Tim Bolding are included as exemplars. The executive summary is accessible at - PubGood_excerpt.pdf 379.2.2 Teaching Effectiveness Workshop for GTAs : This workshop is scheduled for Wednesd ay 20 August 2008 from 8 am to noon. A draft schedule was distributed. 379.2.3 2008 New Faculty Orientation : This orientation is scheduled for Thursday 21 August 2008 from 8:30 am to noon, followed by luncheon and the General Faculty Meeting at 2 pm. A draft schedule was distributed. 379.2.4 Graduate Student Orientation : This orientation is scheduled for Friday 22 August 2008 from 9:30 am to 1:30 pm and includes luncheon. A draft schedule was distributed. Meeting 379, 5/2/08 2 379.2.5 Catalog Changes: N. Hurley announced th at the Graduate and Undergraduate catalogs will be migrated to Luminis Content Management during the summer. This is being done to increase their functionality as part developed b y AASCU and NASULGC. 379.3 Old Business : There was no Old Business 379.4 New Business 379.4.1 MBA revisions: G. Boller introduced the new MBA core and two new concentrations . In this first significant revision in 30 years, program prerequisites have been replaced with 30 hours of core requirements. The general MBA program will remain at 33 hours: 30 hours of core plus one 3 - hour elective. The other MBA programs will include 15 hours of electives, resulting in a total of 45 hours. The two new concen trations are Biomedical Management and Professional. M. Gillenson explained that the Biomedical Management concentration was developed by UofM faculty with input from local industry and that the courses will include industry representatives. The He rff College of Engineering has been very supportive of the program. The program is expected to attract new students, primarily engineers , both full - time, company - sponsored , and part - time evening students. There are no biomedical engineering courses becau se it is business oriented and probably will not attract people without an engineering background. The Student Enrollment figures are very conservative. Fifteen companies have expressed general support of this program. The problem of regulatory variatio ns across countries is covered in MKTG 7520. There was some discussion of the financial projections, with S. Slack suggesting that academic enrichment funds could be used to bring Business faculty to Engineering and Engineering faculty to Business. It w as suggested that D. Poje be invited to address the Council next September to explain the financial projection for m . L. Bennett pointed out that the catalog copy should be revised to include part - time students and S. Slack noted that the title of MKTG 752 0 may be misleading and should be revised. The new Professional concentration formalizes the part - time evening MBA program. The majority of the students in this program are already working for local companies. This new program allows them to indiv idualize their program of study, which students have been requesting. This Meeting 379, 5/2/08 3 differentiates the Professional MBA from the 33 - hour MBA. K. Weddle - West noted that Statement E on the Program Structure form should be revised to emphasize the 30 - hour business core. C. Menifield moved (2/M. Logan) that the proposal for revisions to the general MBA without concentration be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. S. Sherrell moved (2/C.Menifield) that the proposal for revisions to the Executiv e MBA be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. M. Logan moved (2/D. Sherrell) that the proposal for a new MBA with concentration in Biomedical Management be approved with the stipulation s that course titles for MKTG 7250 first be submitted to S. Slack and that catalog copy be revised to include part - time students . The motion with stipulations was carried by voice vote. L. Bennett moved (2/C.Menifield) that the proposal for a new MBA with Professional concentration be approved. The moti on was carried by voice vote. 379.4.2 Two new MPS concentrations request for MPS concentrations in Human Resources Leadership and in Training and Development. These proposals were created by the RODP MPS Committ ee with the member universities creating individual courses; the U of M created PRST 7470 Facilitation of Learning and PRST 7920 Diversity in the Workplace. Development costs of the online courses are borne by TBR, with no cost to the U of M. Our faculty have first right to teach courses the university has developed, which brings in extra revenue. After the first section, faculty from any university can teach any course. RODP, the third largest such program in the country, brings in about $3 to $4 milli on a year to the University. Austin Peay and ETSU h ave developed the most programs to date. C. Danehower noted that the College of Business has no objection to the Human Resources Leadership concentration. Dr. Lattimore pointed out some minor correc tions on pages 11 and 13 of the Human Resources Leadership proposal. M. Logan moved (2/D. Sherrell) that the proposal be approved as corrected. The motion was carried by voice vote. The Training and Development concentration deals with workforce tr aining in large corporations. Questions were raised whether the title of the concentration really encompasses the subject. D. Lattimore replied that the title was agreed on by the whole committee and hopefully the program description and admission intervi ew clarify it. L. Weiss moved (2/C.Menifield) that the proposal be approved with the suggestion that an Meeting 379, 5/2/08 4 alternate title more descriptive of the actual program be considered. The motion and suggestion were approved by voice vote. 379.4.3 Addition of 8000 cognates for HSS PhD : L. Weiss presented requests to add 8000 cognates to EXSS 7123, 7163, 7201, 7202, and to NUTR 7412, 7422 in response to a request from TBR in connection with the proposal for a PhD in Health and Sport Sciences. L. Bennett so moved (2 /M. Logan) ; the motion was carried by voice vote. There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:05 pm. Minutes respectfully submitted by Nancy Hurley, MA