#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2006-2007/1006min.pdf
Meeting 366, 10-6-06 UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES MINUTES, Meeting 366 6 October 2006 2:00 p.m., 177B Admi nistration Building PRESENT: D. Arant (UNIV), L. Bennett (CAS), P. Betts (S UAP), L. Brooks (MIS), S. Chrietzberg (T&D), R. Cox (ESCI; proxy D. Lumsden), C. Danehower (FCBE), R. Gudmestad (HIST), R. Koch (NURS), M. Logan (CCFA), K. Nelson (GSA), H. Perkins (ICL; proxy E. Rakow), E. Rakow (COE), D. Sherrell (MKTG), S. Slack (ENGR), N. Wallace (ART), D. Wark (AUSP), L. Weiss (HSS), C. Williams (ENTH); K. Weddle-West (VPGS), C. Serex (Curriculum Planning), C. Schiro-Geist (SVPAA), J. Brownlee (Graduate School), Lorraine Allen (Graduate School), Nancy Hurley ( for the Graduate School) GUESTS: Sherry Bryan (Art), Michael Hagge (ART), Sw athi Manepalli (Graduate School), Ed Perry (Faculty Senate), Dwayne Scott (Judicial Affairs) Dr. Weddle-West called the meeting together at 2:10 pm and introduced Ed Perry from the Faculty Senate and Swathi Manepalli from the Graduate School. 366.1 Approval of Minutes of Meeting 365, 9/1/06. M. Logan moved (2/L. Weiss) that the minutes be approved. The moti on was carried by voice vote. 366.2 Announcements 366.2.1 Master of Public Health. L. Bennett announced that the program had been approved in July and they are in the process of hiring a director. After that is done, they will write a program description for the online graduate bulletin and begin admitting students. 366.2.2 Information Assurance. K. Weddle-West announced that this certificate has been approved and has been added to the online graduate bulletin. 366.2.3 Curriculum Revisions for 2007-2008. K. Weddle-West drew members attention to the announcement, which has been emailed to members and provided as a handout. She noted that revisions are due to Dr. Serex by October 23. 1 Meeting 366, 10-6-06 366.3 Old Business 366.2.1 Minimum Number of Hours Required for a Dissertation. Continuing discussion begun at Meeting 365, R. Koch moved (2/R. Gudmestad) that the minimum number of hours required fo r a dissertation be set at 6. In the discussion that followed the College of Education representatives strongly urged that the minimum be at least 9 hours; 12 hours would be best as TBR funds by the formula that 12 hours is full-time, so 6 hours would be only half-time. They suggested that the minimum should be at least equivalent to 1 semester of full-time work. It was pointed out that colleges and departments can establish more stringent requirements. The motion was approved by voice vote, with two votes against. 366.3.2 Doctoral Degree for HSS (365.4.10). A revised copy of the proposal was emailed to Council representatives, which L. Weiss went over. He pointed out that they built the infrastructure first: all faculty and all labs and nearly all courses are already in place. Available funding is the only cap on the number of students that can be admitted; they are confident in the projected numbers. Their MS is leading-edge in the field, so the culture is already there. The other doctoral pr ograms in the area are not of this quality; our MS students are on a par with doctoral students at the University of Mississippi or Middle Tenn essee State University. The question was raised of whether this program would have any implications for the proposed School of Public Health; the department was instrumental in developing the MPH. C. Schiro-Geist noted that having a doctoral program leads to more funding in the area. L. Weiss added that Smith & Nephew are interested in doing clinical trials of their products with the department. The projected start date of the program is Fall 2007. M. Logan moved (2/D. Arant) that the proposal for a doctoral degree in Health and Sport Sciences be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. 366.4 New Business 366.4.1 Rehabilitation Program Revisions. E. Rakow introduced these revisions, which are being proposed in order to accommodate students from the Tipperary Institute in Ireland, who wish to earn an MS in Counseling through distance education. Two changes are proposed. The first allows an experiential learning portfolio delineating substantial life/professional experience in human services to be used in lieu of GRE scores for admission. The second allows as many as 9 hours to be waived based on 2 Meeting 366, 10-6-06 prior education/experience. The student will still have to have at least 39 hours of credit to graduate. The program is accredited by CORE, so minimums have already been mandat ed. L. Weiss moved (2/L. Bennett) that the revisions be accepted; the motion was carried by voice vote. 366.4.2 Master of Architecture. Michael Hagge introduced this new program proposal, which is a two-year program restricted to those who already have a four-year pre-professional degree and so is not comparable to the architecture program at UT-K. The department worked with the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy to focus on city building. Only Southern California and Columbia have such a program. The closest architecture program is 300-400 miles away. Memphis is the largest city in the nation without an architecture program. Some salient aspects of the program are: ~ the estimated headcount is lower than the number that have expressed interest ~ there is a 100% acceptance rate for the undergraduate program, although not all can accept ~ it is a 60-hour program, with 10 new courses and 12 6000 cognates ~ there is a great deal of community support ~ the undergraduate degree requires 128 hours of technical and theoretical courses, which can lead to admission wa ivers of some graduate tech hours; students would have to take all de sign studio courses; the admission committee would decide ~ most new courses are 6000 cognates of existing courses; others would be taught on rotation ~ most students would be full-time, although part-timers are welcome ~ 42 hours have to be taken at the 7000 level L. Bennett moved (2/E. Rakow) that the proposed Master of Architecture (MArch) be approved. The moti on was carried by voice vote. 366.4.3 ProQuest Message for Dissertations and Theses Customers. See 366.4.4. 366.4.4 Educause Center for Applied Research Œ ETDs. K. Weddle-West called members™ attention to these two distribution items, noting that the Graduate School would like to encourage and promote ETDs in appropriate fields such as Music, Physics, or HSS. She asked whether a visit from someone from ProQuest or from a university that uses ETDs would be helpful. The consensus was that some one from another university or from the Advanced Learning Center would be preferable. Two possible problems were noted: Electronic storage becomes outdated very quickly and putting 3 Meeting 366, 10-6-06 TDs online often constitutes publication, thus compromising other publication. 366.4.5 Academic Misconduct. Dwayne Sc ott, Associate Dean of Students for Judicial Affairs addressed the Council on the importance of handling events consistently. There are two options. The first is to take it before the Academic Integrity Committee, at which th e instructor of record will testify. The other option is summary discipline. In both cases due process must be followed; see the form letter that Mr. Scott distributed, also available on line at , which is sent to the student by the department chair, although it is up to the instructor whether he or she goes first to the student or directly to the chair. All instances must be handled by a committee (as per TBR reg ulations); if the student appeals, the faculty member must testify. Mr. Scott has a PowerPoint presentation that he is happy to make to any department that wishes more detail on academic misconduct policies. He noted that inaccurate citations are not under the jurisdiction of Judicial Affairs. C. Schiro-Geist announced that the University has a site license to use Tu rnItIn anti-plagiarism software, which can be used as a teaching device as well as for policing. More information can be found at . It was pointed out that graduate students who might want to publish their papers should not submit them to TurnItIn, as that will constitute online publication. Mr. Scott urged faculty to contact him whenever a question arises. 366.4.6 Graduate Faculty Survey Œ Touchpoints. K. Weddle-West made the PowerPoint presentation that she ha d done with great success for Dr. Raines. At the end she encouraged graduate faculty to help circulate the fact that the University of Memphis is a doctoral research extensive university under the new Carnegie classification. 366.4.7 1 st Generation Ph.D. K. Weddle-West de scribed this new fellowship that will replace the TBR Minority Fellowship, funding for which has ended. P. Betts volunteered to serve on the selection committee. 366.4.8 CSGS Awards 2007. M. Logan noted that the thesis award program does not include MFA projects and asked that Dr. Weddle-West bring this to the attention of CSGS. In closing remarks, K. Weddle-West noted that the November meeting will include University College changes to the Consumer Science program and revisions to the Council Bylaws to include 4 Meeting 366, 10-6-06 representation of the Faculty Senate. She also asked members to think about ways to involve faculty in increasing graduate enrollment. There being no further business, th e meeting was adjourned at 3:30 pm. Minutes respectfully submitted by N. Hurley. 5