#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_minutes/2006-2007/0906min.pdf
Meeting Number 365, 9/1/06 1 UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR GRADUATE STUDIES MINUTES, Meeting 365 1 September 2006 2:00 p.m., 177B Admi nistration Building PRESENT: D. Arant (UNIV), L. Bennett (CAS), P. Betts (S UAP), L. Brooks (MIS), S. Chrietzberg (T&D), C. Danehower (FCBE), R. Gudmestad (HIST), K. Nelson (GSA), R. Cox (ESCI), M. Logan (CCFA), T. McInish (FIR), E. Rakow (COE), S. Slack (ENGR), N. Wallace (ART), D. Wark (AUSP), L. Weiss (HSS), C. Williams (ENG TECH), K. Weddle-West (VPGS), J. Brownlee (Graduate School), L. Allen (Graduate School) ABSENT: R. Koch (NURS), H. Perkins (ICL), C. Serex (Curriculum Planning), C. Schiro-Geist (VPAA) GUESTS: Alisha Rose, Director, Ca reer and Employment Services 365.1 Approval of Minutes of Meeting 364, 5/5/06. L. Bennett moved (2/S. Slack) that the minutes be approved. The moti on was carried by voice vote. 365.2 Announcements 365.2.1 Graduate Scholarships. K. Weddle-West drew members attention to the flyers announcing these scholarships and asked than members distribute them. L. Allen will also send them to members via email. 365.3 Old Business. There was no old business. 365.4 New Business 365.4.1 Introduction of UCGS Member s. Dr. Weddle-West welcomed new and returning members and asked them to introduce themselves. 365.4.2 Graduate and Professional School Recruitment Day. Alisha Rose, Director of Career and Employment Services, presented information about the Recruitment Fair for Graduate and Professional Studies (formerly the Graduate School Fair). It will be held on September 28 from 11 am to 2 pm in the University Center Ballroom. She urged all graduate programs to register (there is no cost except for lunch) and to encourage undergraduate students to attend. In future, CES hopes to have a central location for all GAs, that will include lunch and learn workshops such as help with resumes. In the meantime, Dr. Weddle-West asked departments to suggest that Meeting Number 365, 9/1/06 2 students seeking assistantships give their resumes to the Graduate School to act as a clearing house. 365.4.3 Proposal to Change the AUSP major to Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology. D. Wark presented this proposal, which reflects what the field is now called and does not involve any curricular or programmatic changes. L. Bennett moved (2/E. Rakow) that the name change be approved. The motion was carried by voice vote. 365.4.4 NRC Assessment of Doctoral Programs. Dr. Weddle-West reminded members that the results of this a ssessment will give the University 10 years of free media exposure. The relevant departments need to provide benchmarks, individual and aggregate, for their students, noting that the Institutional Review Board has designated this protocol as exempt from full federal regulations (see handout). She announced that a GA, Ms Swathi Manepalli, is available to assist. This assessment helps determine the Graduate Schoolôs external image. As revealed in the Touch Points feedback, the Schoolôs internal imag e is also good, due to constant assessment. The Graduate School website is being upgraded, but since recruitment is changing (using podc asts, blogs, etc.), departmental suggestions are sought. 365.4.5 GRE PowerPoint Presentation. Dr. Weddle-West made a PowerPoint presentation updating the changes to the GRE General Test. Since this is a work in progress, the material is confidential at this time. The main changes will be the ability to receive essay responses (if requested) in addition to scores alone, new score scale, and fewer dates the test is offered. A launch date of Spring 2007 is expected. 365.4.6 Time Limitation for Graduate Certificates. Certificates are a major source of recruitment since the market is very strong. Since the enrollment is growing, the question arises of limitation of time to degree. Should it be the same as for the masterôs? Should it be 3 years for a stand-alone certificate, but 6 years for one earned concurrently with a masterôs? K. Weddle-West asked members to bring this problem before their college councils and report back. She also noted that th e Certificate in College Teaching will become a RODP program not limited to TAs. TBR is very much in favor of teaching with technology, perhaps buil ding in yearly continuing education seminars to refresh knowledge. Would certificate-only students be eligible for financial aid? One problem is that GAs must take 12 hours a semester, but not all necessary courses are offered each semester. Meeting Number 365, 9/1/06 3 365.4.7 Minimum Number of Hours Required for a Dissertation. Depending on college, it is now 9-18 hours, with Arts & Sciences, Communication & Fine Arts, and Herff College of Engineering ha ving no stated minimum. The hours should reflect realistically the amount of time spent by the faculty advisor; 1 credit hour equals 750 minutes of cont act. It is common for universities across the country to have minimums. One suggestion was 6 hours per semester, as for assistantships and st udents with loans. Dr. Weddle-West asked members to bring this question before their college councils and report back in October. 365.4.8 Utility of Online SIRs for Graduate (small) Classes. A number of questions were raised about this topic: Will the number of participants decrease (it did sharply in Engineering)? Among those who do participate, will there be a bias for or against the professor? Will the questions lead to invalid data? Is there any research to show that there is no difference in administering the questionnaire online and in class? M. Logan suggested that these questions should be brought before their college councils in reference to Spring program reviews. It was noted that the narrative comments are the most valuable; will they be available to faculty in the new format? In most graduate courses, the number of resp ondents will be too small to preserve anonymity. 365.4.9 Induction Ceremony for Doctoral St udents. Dr. Weddle-West drew attention to the handout from Carnegie Perspe ctives. Could such a ceremony be helpful in reducing time to degree and increasing completion rate? President Raines would like to have a similar ceremony for doctoral students. It would not be mandatoryäperhaps part of the very successful graduate student orientation. S. Chreitzberg reported that Theate and Dance has done something similar with freshman, with an increase in retention. Members felt th at it would have more effect if done on a unit or college level. Cohort-driven systems have higher retention rates, reflecting the importance of being part of a group. Dr. Weddle-West announced creation of a task-force to look into this. S. Chreitzberg, L. Weiss, C. Williams, L. Bennett, and R. Gudmesta d, chaired by K. Weddle-West, made up the members. 365.4.10 Doctoral Degree for HSS. L. Weiss distributed an overview of the proposal for a PhD in Health and Sport Science that he will present at the October meeting. The proposal needs further editing, but a pdf file with all the appendices has already been sent to Council members. CCFA will also present a proposal for an MArch in October. Meeting Number 365, 9/1/06 4 365.4.11 Growing Graduate Enrollment. Dr. Weddle-West noted than enrollment is down 149 at the non-degree level and 69 at the masterôs level due to changes in secondary education resulting from the No Child Left Behind Act. The large masterôs programs support the smaller niche programs. MBAs are declining nationally, due in part to a decline in tuition reimbursement by large corporations. Everyone has to wo rk on recruitment; for instance, a few more resources could add 50 students to the MSN program. At C. Danehowerôs suggestion, Greg Boller wa s added to the Graduate Enrollment Committee. 365.4.13 M. Logan asked for volunteers to serve as needed on the Graduate Grade Appeals Committee. She will continue as chair. Faculty volunteers are L. Weiss, J. Marchetta, C. Danehower, S. Key, N. Wallace, and L. Bennett. K. Nelson will get 6 graduate students to serve. 365.4.14 Deadline for Submission of Curriculum Additions ( October 23, 2006 ) Minutes respectfully submitted by Nancy Hurley.