#http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/resources/faqs.php
FAQs - Parent &amp; Family Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parent &amp; Family Services About Events Communication Resources Get Involved Give Back Visit UofM Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Home Parent &amp; Family Services Resources FAQs FAQs Below you will find some of our most frequently asked questions. Please click on the question to see the answer. If you have a questions that is not answered here, please email us at parents@memphis.edu or call us at 901.678.2115. Academics How does my student actually register for classes at the UofM? What makes a student full-time? How many courses can or should a student take a semester? I need proof that my student is enrolled at the University of Memphis. How can I get this? How much study time is required? Can I contact my student's instructors? Does my student have to declare a major right away? What if my student doesn't know what he/she wants to major in? How does my student pick or change a major? Are freshmen courses taught mostly by temporary or part-time instructors and by graduate assistants? Is any tutoring or extra help available? Should my student have a computer? Can my student earn a degree in 4 years? How are students assigned an advisor? How do I get a copy of last semester's grades or verification that my student qualifies for a Good Student Discount for auto insurance? When is Commencement? What are the University Colleges and Academic Departments? Grades How do students get their grades? Can I check my student’s grades? Finances Is my student eligible for financial aid? How does my student apply for financial aid? Miscellaneous Where can my student buy their books and supplies for classes? How does my child reserve an on campus mail box? My student needs to withdraw from the University. What do they need to do? What is the University's organizational structure? Emergencies and Medical Problems How can I reach my student in an emergency if he or she is in class? How does my student withdraw for medical reasons? What if my student becomes ill while at college? Can he or she get any treatment on campus? What is Tiger Text? How can my student sign up for this Can my student sign me up for this service? Housing What are the dorms like? What sort of on-campus housing options are available? What sort of off-campus housing is available? Expenses How much is tuition? How can I pay my student's fees? Can I buy my student's textbooks online? Scholarships, Aid, and Student Employment What sort of financial aid or scholarships are available? Is my student eligible for in-state tuition? Is my student eligible for a Tennessee Hope lottery scholarship? Does the University offer any internships? What jobs are available on campus for students? Campus Safety How safe is campus? Career &amp; Psychological Counseling Center Can I make an appointment for my daughter/son to do career testing? Can anyone come in for counseling whenever they want? Is there a limit on how many times they can come in? Can I come with them to their appointments? Is there a charge for counseling? Can you give my child an aptitude test to show them what they’re good at? Is there a psychiatrist available for prescribing medication, like for ADD or depression? Are services only for undergraduates? Disability Resources for Students Can my daughter/son get testing for ADHD/LD before school starts so s/he doesn’t have to wait? How much does the ADHD/LD testing cost? I would like to have my son/daughter evaluated for a Learning Disability or Attention Deficit Disorder. Are there any places on campus that can do this type of evaluation? If my son/daughter registers with Disability Resources for Students, will reference to his/her disability appear on his/her transcript? I am concerned about my son/daughter’s disability limitations will affect his/her career choice. Can you assist with this? Life After College Does the University help students find jobs after they graduate? Dining Services What is Dining Dollar$? How can I add Dining Dollars or Tiger Funds to my student's account? What are the costs for meal plans? Information Technology Is there a computer lab in the new University Center? Can my student rent a laptop from the University? Parking Services How can my student obtain a parking pass? What is priority parking? Calendar When are semester breaks, finals, and other important dates? Health Insurance How can I get health insurance for my student through the university? Visiting Campus How do I get to campus? Honors Program What is the Honors Program? Can anyone apply to be in the Honors Program? More Information I can't find the answer I need on this page. Can you help? Resources Parent Handbook FAQs Academics at UofM Student Records Student Life Health &amp; Safety Financial Information I Want To In the Now UofM Vocabulary College Vocabulary Publications Parents of… Future Students Freshmen Transfer Commuter Out of State Seniors Contact Us Got questions, comments, or concerns? We're here to help! Parent &amp; Family E-news Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News. Parent &amp; Family Handbook Learn about opportunities and services available to students. In the Now: September FAQs What you need to know this month to help you help your student Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/5/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .