#http://www.memphis.edu/univcoll/resources/scholarships.php
Scholarships and Awards - University College - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University College About Undergraduate Graduate Resources Online Home University College Resources Scholarships and Awards University College Scholarships and Awards Outstanding Student in Merchandising Award Presented to an outstanding undergraduate student with potential for leadership in the discipline. Outstanding Student in Child Development Award Presented to an outstanding undergraduate student with potential for leadership in the discipline. Outstanding STUDENT IN LEGAL STUDIES Award Presented to the student demonstrating academic achievement, leadership, and dedication to the discipline. Outstanding Distance Education Student Award Presented to students demonstrating unusual commitment and scholarly endeavor while taking courses online. Alma Bucovaz Urban Service Award Presented to the student demonstrating excellence in an academic program addressing urban problems and seeking to ameliorate urban needs. Faculty Council Award Awarded to the student who graduated with the overall highest grade point average in the last academic year. Academic Achievement Award Presented to students demonstrating academic excellence and scholarly potential in their particular baccalaureate program. Dean's Award for Special Achievement Awarded to the student demonstrating achievement, leadership, and determination to complete the baccalaureate program. Outstanding Graduate Student Award Awarded to the outstanding graduate student demonstrating unusual commitment and scholarly endeavor in the Master of Arts in Liberal Studies program or the Master of Professional Studies program. University College Alumni Board Book Scholarship Presented by University College Alumni Chapter. Alma Bucovaz Urban Service Award Awarded to a member of the College for commitment to the solving of urban problems through research and outreach. Distinguished Faculty Award Presented to a University College faculty member for demonstrating outstanding service and dedication to University College students. *Frances Ina Stewart Davies Endowed Scholarship Presented to a Family &amp; Consumer Sciences undergraduate student exhibiting outstanding academic achievements. (Open to students majoring in Merchandising and Child Development.) *Edward A. Hamilton Scholarship Presented to firefighters and dependents of firefighters who are either incoming students or currently enrolled at the University of Memphis and have evidence of financial need. *Yancey Scholarship Awarded to adult students (age 25 and older) returning to the University of Memphis who are enrolled and have an approved plan of study for an undergraduate degree in University College. *Joyce Holeman-Kidd Scholarship Awarded to an undergraduate student enrolled in University College who is a non-traditional and first-generation college student. * Application for University College Scholarships can be completed through Tiger Scholarship Manager. Tiger Scholarship Manager will be open to accept applications starting November 17th, 2014 and will close on January 26th, 2015. Recipients will be announced in March by email from University College and the Scholarship Office will notify recipients when the award is available beginning in May. All scholarship awards are intended for the next academic year. Request More Information Complete our online form for additional degree information. Online Appointments Academic Advising is available in-person, by phone and web conference. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/23/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .