#http://bf.memphis.edu/hr/benefits/workerscomp.php
Workers' Compensation During the course of employment at the University of Memphis, we hope you are never injured on the job, or suffer from an occupational illness. If you do have an on-the-job injury, proper reporting of the situation will expedite the filing of a claim for medical expenses and compensation if necessary. What should I do if I am injured on the job? If it is an emergency, seek treatment at the nearest emergency room. Then contact your supervisor and the University Benefits Administration Office as soon as possible to start the claim process. In a non-emergency, notify your supervisor immediately and follow the steps below. Tell your supervisor what happened, how it happened, who saw what happened, and if you were injured as a result of the accident. You and your supervisor should then call the Workplace Injury and First Notice of Loss Call Center at 1-866-245-8588. Select option #1 to speak with a registered nurse who will evaluate the nature of your injury and determine your immediate care or treatment options. Your supervisor will only verify that you are reporting a work related injury to the registered nurse. If no medical treatment is recommended, the registered nurse will document the call for you and your supervisor and enter an incident report in the reporting system. If medical treatment is recommended, the nurse will direct you to the nearest State approved medical provider. You and your supervisor will need to complete the First Report of Injury or Illness form found online at First Report of Injury or Illness . This form should be returned to the University Benefits Administration Office. What to do when seeking medical treatment: Upon arrival, you should notify the medical facility personnel that you were injured while on the job. Follow up doctors and/or specialists appointments must be arranged by CorVel and NOT by the injured employee or supervisor. You may contact CorVel to discuss existing claims at 1-888-226-7835. What to do after seeking medical treatment: It is the employee&rsquo;s responsibility to keep the University Benefits Administration Office notified regarding their work status. All medical documentation must be forwarded and provided to the University Benefits Administration Office only &ndash; not to your supervisor. Due to HIPAA privacy compliance, ONLY the University Benefits Administration Office will store medical records related to an employee&rsquo;s on the job injury. For Accidents Which Occur After Hours The Workplace Injury and First Notice of Loss Call Center at 1-866-245-8588 operates 24/7. In non-emergency situations, the employee and supervisor should call the Call Center and follow the steps above. First Report of Injury or Illness Near Miss Form Important Contacts CorVel's Workplace Injury and First Notice of Loss Call Center: 1-866-245-8588 Wallet Card University Benefits Administration: (901) 678-3573 Employee Safety &amp; Health: (901) 678-4671 State of Tennessee Workers Compensation Division