#http://www.memphis.edu/egypt/about/history.php
History of the Institute - Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology About Location Teaching Staff Research Exhibition Events Resources About IEAA Mission Statement History of the IEAA Ordering IEAA Publications Friends of the IEAA Site Map Home Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology About History of the Institute Brief History of the IEAA The city of Memphis, Tennessee (USA) has always had a special connection to its ancient namesake, Memphis, Egypt. The American city was founded in 1819 by General (later President) Andrew Jackson, General James Winchester and Judge John Overton. Based on its strategic position at the head of the Delta of the Mississippi River (sometimes called the "American Nile"), the city was named after the ancient capital of Egypt which was located at the head of the Nile River Delta. The citizens of Memphis have maintained their connection with ancient Egypt through the years. In 1917 Robert Galloway, chairman of the Memphis Park Commission, presented two large quartzite blocks to the city of Memphis. These blocks, originally part of a palace in ancient Memphis, are decorated with figures and inscriptions of the 26th Dynasty (ca. 550 B.C.E.) Pharaoh Amasis. More recently, the city of Memphis built its own pyramid, a huge structure of steel and glass that dominates the downtown skyline. In the 1970s, a generous donation from Mr. E.H. Little, a prominent Memphis businessman, made possible the acquisition of forty-four Egyptian artifacts, ranging in date from 3600 B.C.E. to the seventh century C.E., selected by University of Memphis faculty from the collection of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. These antiquities became the core of the University's permanent collection of Egyptian artifacts. This was followed nearly a decade later by the city of Memphis's highly successful exhibition, Ramesses the Great, and the founding of the University's Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology. Established in 1984 with a pledge of significant financial support from the Memphis Business Community under the leadership of Union Planters Bank (now Regions Bank), the Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology, (IEAA), was designated a Tennessee Center of Excellence in 1985. The IEAA is a component of the Department of Art, a unit of the College of Communication and Fine Arts of the University of Memphis. Timeline for the Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology 1975 A collection of 44 works of ancient Egyptian art from the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston is acquired by the University through the generosity of E. H. Little 1983 First installation of the ancient Egyptian collection occurs Exhibition, A Divine Tour of Egypt, at the University Art Museum (curated by Dr. Rita E. Freed; exhibition catalogue by Dr. Freed) 1984 Union Planters Bank (now Regions Bank) leads the Memphis business community in an endowment pledge drive for the IEAA 1985 IEAA officially established on October 15th Tennessee Board of Regents designates the IEAA a Tennessee Center of Excellence Mrs. Jehan Sadat, widow of Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, is guest speaker at the inaugural ceremony 1987 The first Wonders™ exhibition, Ramesses the Great (curated by Dr. Rita E. Freed; exhibition catalogue by Dr. Freed), draws over 675,000 visitors 1992 The position of Director of the Center of Excellence is combined with that of the Director of the Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology. 1993 IEAA initiates the Great Hypostyle Hall Project at Karnak, Egypt (project director the late Dr. William Murnane) 1994 Tennessee Board of Regents approves proposal for Master's Degree Program in Art History with Concentration in Egyptian Art and Archaeology (submitted by Dr. Lorelei H. Corcoran) 1995 IEAA initiates sponsorship of the Amenmesse Project (KV 10), in the Valley of the Kings (project director Dr. Otto Schaden) 1996 Exhibition, Reading, Writing and Hieroglyphs: Text and Image in Ancient Egypt at the University Art Museum (curated by Dr. Lorelei H. Corcoran) IEAA web site launched 1999 Exhibition, Africa's Egypt at the Memphis Pink Palace Museum (curated by Dr. Lorelei H. Corcoran), attracts over 85,000 visitors 2001 Exhibition, Gods of Ancient Memphis at the Art Museum of the University of Memphis (co-curated by Dr. Stephen Harvey and Dr. Melinda Hartwig; exhibition catalogue by Drs. Harvey and Hartwig) 2003 Dr. Lorelei H. Corcoran initiates co-operative project with the Italian Archaeological Mission to Luxor, Tomb of Harwa (project director Dr. Francesco Tiradritti; Hohenberg Chair of Excellence in Art History, University of Memphis, 2004-2005) 2005 IEAA offices moved to 201 Jones Hall 2005 Exhibition, That You May Behold the Moon: The Photography of Sue Lazon 2006 Discovery of tomb 63 in the Valley of the Kings 2010 New display cases for IEAA mummies and coffins installed. This made possible by generous support of The Knapp Foundation (Memphis, TN), Cope Plastics - Memphis and Lucite International 2011 New wall display unit and major reinstallation of Egyptian Gallery. This made possible by generous support of The Knapp Foundation (Memphis, TN), Lucite International and anonymous donors 2012 Cast of colossal statue of Ramesses II moved from downtown to campus of the University of Memphis 2015 Undergraduate concentration in Egyptian Art and Archaeology in Art History added to the curriculum (submitted by Dr. Lorelei H. Corcoran) About IEAA Mission Statement History of the IEAA Ordering IEAA Publications Friends of the IEAA Site Map Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .