#http://www.memphis.edu/mscm/faculty/gliu.php
GENSHENG LIU - MSCM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Marketing &amp; Supply Chain Management Welcome Programs Students Faculty PhD Students Publications FCBE Welcome Programs Students Faculty MKTG Faculty SCM Faculty PhD Students Publications Home MSCM Faculty GENSHENG LIU GENSHENG LIU Associate Professor, Department of Marketing &amp; Supply Chain Management Phone 901-678-4617 Email gliu@memphis.edu Fax 901-678-2685 Office BA 326 Office Hours T/Th 3:45-5:15PM and by appointment Website Biography Dr. Gensheng (Jason) Liu is an associate professor of Production/Operations Management in the Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management, Fogelman College of Business and Economics, University of Memphis. He holds both a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in Management Information Systems from Tsinghua University, China. He received his PhD in Business Administration with a concentration on Operations and Management Science from Carlson School of Management, University of Minnesota. Jason’s research interests include mass customization, supply chain management, and empirical research methods. He has published in academic journals like Decision Sciences, International Journal of Operations &amp; Production Management, International Journal of Production Research, International Journal of Physical Distribution and Logistics Management, Operations Management Research, and Journal of Manufacturing Technology Management , etc. His current research investigates enablers of mass customization as well as mass customization’s performance consequences. Jason is an active member of several professional organizations, including the Decision Sciences Institute, the Production and Operations Management Society, and the Academy of Management. Jason’s teaching interests include operations management, supply chain management, manufacturing planning and control, business statistics, and quantitative research methods. At the University of Memphis he has taught the undergraduate business core courses of Production/Operations Management and Business Statistics, and the MBA core course of Global Operations Management. Research Research Interests Mass customization Supply chain management Empirical research methods Refereed Journal Articles Liu, Gensheng (Jason), Rachna Shah, and Emin Babakus (2012), "When to Mass Customize: The Impact of Environmental Uncertainty," Decision Sciences , 43 (5), 851-887. Liu, Gensheng (Jason), Rachna Shah, and Roger G. Schroeder (2012), "The Relationships among Functional Integration, Mass Customization, and Plant Performance," International Journal of Production Research , 50 (3), 677-690. Liu, Gensheng (Jason), Mohammad M. Amini, Emin Babakus, and Marla B. Royne Stafford (2011), “Handling observations with low interrater agreement values,” Journal of Analytical Sciences, Methods and Instrumentation , 1 (2), 9-18. Peng, David Xiaosong, Gensheng (Jason) Liu, and Gregory R. Heim (2011), "Impacts of Information Technology Infrastructure on Mass Customization Capability of Manufacturing Plants," International Journal of Operations &amp; Production Management , 31 (10), 1022-1047. Liu, Gensheng (Jason) and George D. Deitz (2011), "Linking Supply Chain Management with Mass Customization Capability," International Journal of Physical Distribution and Logistics Management , 41 (7), 668-683. Liu, Gensheng (Jason), Rachna Shah, and Roger G. Schroeder (2010), "Managing demand and supply uncertainties to achieve mass customization ability," Journal of Manufacturing Technology Management , 21 (8), 990-1012. Liu, Gensheng (Jason), Kathleen McKone-Sweet, and Rachna Shah (2009), "Assessing the performance impact of supply chain planning in net-enhanced organizations," Operations Management Research , 2 (1-4), 33-43. Liu, Gensheng (Jason), Rachna Shah, and Roger G. Schroeder (2006), "Linking Work Design to Mass Customization: A Sociotechnical Systems Perspective," Decision Sciences , 37 (4), 519-545. Book Review Liu, Gensheng (Jason), (2002) "The Economics of Network Industries," Electronic Markets , 12 (3), 213-214. Refereed Conference Proceedings Liu, Gensheng (Jason), George D. Deitz, and Emin Babakus, “Factors Affecting the Magnitudes of Interrater Agreement (IRA) Measures: A Comparative Study of rWG and AD Indices,” the 22nd Annual Conference of the Production and Operations Management Society (POMS), Reno, NV, April 29 - May 2, 2011. Liu, Gensheng (Jason), Mohammad M. Amini, and Emin Babakus, “Interrater Agreement: The Forest versus the Trees,” the 41st Annual Meeting of the Decision Sciences Institute (DSI), San Diego, CA, November 2010. Liu, Gensheng (Jason) and George D. Deitz, “Linking Supply Chain Management with Mass Customization Capability,” Society for Marketing Advances (SMA) 2010 annual conference, Supply Chain Management &amp; Logistics track, Atlanta, GA, November 2010. Liu, Gensheng (Jason), Rachna Shah, and Roger G. Schroeder, "Managing Supply Chain Uncertainties to Achieve Mass Customization Ability," the 40th Annual Meeting of the Decision Sciences Institute (DSI), New Orleans, LA, November 2009. Peng, Xiaosong, Gensheng (Jason) Liu, and Gregory R. Heim, “Impacts of Information Technology Infrastructure on Mass Customization Capabilities,” the 39th Annual Meeting of the Decision Sciences Institute (DSI), Baltimore, MD, November 2008. Liu, Gensheng (Jason), Rachna Shah, and Roger G. Schroeder, "Integrating Business Functions for Mass Customization and Plant Performance," the 38th Annual Meeting of the Decision Sciences Institute (DSI), Phoenix, AZ, November 2007. Teaching Courses taught at University of Memphis: SCMS7313 (ISDS7313): Global Operations Management (MBA &amp; EMBA) SCMS4510 (ISDS4510): Operations Planning and Control SCMS3510 (ISDS3510): Production/Operations Management (undergraduate core) SCMS2710 (ISDS2710): Business Statistics (undergraduate core) Fall 2014 teaching: SCMS7313 Sec001: T/Th 11:20AM-12:45PM SCMS4510 Sec001: T/Th 5:30-6:55PM Welcome Programs Students Faculty MKTG Faculty SCM Faculty PhD Students Publications Majors &amp; Minors See how a MSCM degree can benefit you! MSCM Internship Program Want to gain “real world” work experience related to your academic studies? Look no further! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .