#http://www.memphis.edu/icl/faculty/
Faculty - ICL - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Programs Students Faculty Research A-Z List ICL Faculty Faculty Resources Home ICL Faculty ICL Faculty Chair of excellence Beverly E. Cross PhD, The Ohio State University, 1992 Early Childhood Shelly Counsell EdD, University of Northern Iowa, 2007 Vivian Gunn Morris PhD, George Peabody College of Vanderbilt University, 1973 Satomi I. Taylor PhD, Virginia Polytechnical &amp; State University, 1992 Brian Wright PhD, Tufts University, 2007 Elementary Education/Middle School Education Annette Cornelius EdD, The University of Memphis Bonnie J. Cummings MEd, Memphis State University, 1970 Duane M. Giannangelo PhD, The University of Iowa, 1972 Torre Kelley EdD, Trevecca Nazarene University, 2010 Cathy D. Meredith EdD, The University of Memphis, 1996 DeAnna Owens PhD, Capella University Dona Packer EdD, University of Louisiana at Monroe Angiline Powell PhD, University of Alabama, 1999 Mary Ransdell EdD, The University of Kentucky, 2001 Nicole Thompson PhD, University of Georgia Deborah K. Watlington PhD, Texas A&amp;M University, 1990 Instruction Design &amp; Technology Lee E. Allen EdD, Pepperdine University, 2005 Trey Martindale PhD, Texas Tech. University, 1998 Clif Mims PhD, University of Georgia, 2004 Carmen Weaver EdD, University of Memphis Reading Education Rebecca S. Anderson PhD, Virginia Polytechnical &amp; State University, 1993 Mark W. Conley PhD, Syracuse University, 1983 Sutton Flynt EdD, The University of Georgia, 1979 Laurie MacGillivray EdD, The University of Houston, 1992 J. Helen Perkins EdD, Oklahoma State University, 1999 Secondary Education Celia Rousseau Anderson PhD, The University of Wisconsin-Madison, 2002 Erika Bullock PhD, Georgia State University, 2013 Jeffrey M. Byford PhD, University of Oklahoma, 2002 Alfred Hall PhD, George Mason Special Education Laura Baylot Casey PhD, Mississippi State University, 2006 William Hunter EdD, University of Cincinnati James Meindl PhD, Ohio State University Neal D. Miller PhD, Ohio State University, 2012 Renee C. Murley EdD, The University of Memphis, 2003 Linda Page EdD, Union University, 2005 Kay C. Reeves EdD, The University of Memphis, 2003 Robert Taylor PhD, University of Oregon, 1982 Todd Whitney PhD, University of Louisville, 2011 Lambuth Campus Annette Cornelius EdD, The University of Memphis Torre Kelley EdD, Trevecca Nazarene University, 2010 Ellen Jean McDonald EdD, University of Memphis, 1973 Renee C. Murley EdD, The University of Memphis, 2003 Linda Page EdD, Union University, 2005 Deborah K. Watlington PhD, Texas A&amp;M University, 1990 Post-Retirement John M. Johnston PhD, The Ohio State University, 1978 ICL Faculty Faculty Resources ICL Degrees Admissions Advising Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .