#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/econ/2015FECON8125001.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus ECON 7125 / 8125 Applied Stat . Method for Bus . and E con . Fall Semester, 2015 3.0 Credit Hours (Last updated: 8 / 1 8 / 2015) Instructor: Joonhyung Lee , PhD Phone1: 901.678. 1659 E - mail: jlee17@memphis.edu Office: FCBE # 411 Office Hours: M12:00 - 2:00 and by appoin t ment Course Overview : This course gives an introduction to probability and statistics. This is not a course of data analysis , but is a stepping stone for the econometrics courses. Hence, t he goal is to provide the background for applied econometric study which requires knowledge of probability and statistics . Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: There are no course pre - requisites to enrolling in this course. R ecommended Texts ( Not required ) : Probability and Statistics , Degroot and Shervish, 4 th edition . Location of Course Materials : A ll course materials are located on the eCourseware web site . Course Objectives : By successfully completing this course, students will be able to : 1. G et ready to take the series of econometrics courses that will be taught in subsequent semesters. 2. Understand the applications of probability and statistics. p. 2 Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the P h D or MA Econ degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with th e overall learning objectives as a student : pdf mes.pdf Grading and Evaluation Criteria There will be two exam s (one midterm and one final) , each worth 40 percent of your grade. The final will not be explicitly cumulative. There would be 4 - 5 homeworks , usually due on one week after the assignment date. The homeworks will be graded on a "check - /check/check+" basis, which roughly corresponds to 60/80/100 points. Homework assignments will count for 2 0 percent of your grade. Homework may be done in groups, but each student must submit their own answers. Final Course Grades Final course grades are earned according to the following table : Point Range Assigned Grad e 9 0 - 100 Points A 8 0 - 9 0 Points B 7 0 - 8 0 Points C 6 0 - 70 Points D Under 6 0 Points F Final Exam Schedule The final exam for this class will be scheduled according to the academic calendar website . Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all o fficial course correspondence at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not regularly the responsibility. p. 3 Attendance: Y ou are expected to stay active and engaged throughout the academic term and keep up wi th the schedule of activities. Your full engagement in the class begins on the first day of the semester and should be maintained until the last assignment is submitted. Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student H andbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. Note that using a Solutions Manual is considered cheating. Should your professor have evidence that using a Solutions Manual has occurred, he/she may take steps Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance