#http://www.memphis.edu/economics/pdfs/newsletter/newsletter_f2013.pdf
FCB&E, R OOM 400 678 - 2785 F ALL , 2013 ECON MATTERS ECON MATTERS ECON MATTERS Newsletter of the Dept. of Economics, University of Memphis Maynard Keynes FROM THE CHAIR FROM THE CHAIR FACULTY AT A GLANCE: - It is an appropriate moment to look back at what the Department has accomplished over the last year. First, I am proud to announce that we now have over 190 majors. More and more students are discovering that econom- . like to mention a few students who are even more entranced by the subject: Daniel Mangrum and Jacob Howard graduat- One of our current PhD students, David Taylor, was awarded the 1 st have gone on to highly successful careers as economists. Diego Nocetti and Lu Echazu are husband and wife who earned their PhDs with us and became professors at Clarkson University, a very fine liberal arts school in up - state New York (in the arctic). Within the space of three weeks this sum- mer Diego had papers accepted at the Journal of Economic Theory , the Journal of Risk & Uncertainty , and the Journal of Mathe- matical Economics . Greg Lubiani earned his BA, MA, and PhD here and is now an Assistant Professor at Xavier University in Cincinnati. He has already had two papers accepted at Health Economics , one of the premier journals in that field. Greg is also interviewed later in this newsletter. In 1997 David Jacks earned a double major in Economics and History here at the University of Memphis. He received ics and a PhD at the University of California, Davis. He is an Associate Professor at Simon Frazier University and a Re- search Associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research. This summer his research on commodity prices and how they affect the economy was featured in an article in the Economist , freexchange/2013/06/commodity - prices . Our faculty has been very active this year too: Dr. Chang was awarded a research grant by the Triple Aim Project, a community - based health initiative. He will study the economic burden of hypertension, infant mortality, and end - of - life care in Memphis and Shelby County. Dr. Chang is the Director of the Center for Health Services Research, which has recently been selected as one of the areas of focus upon which the Fogelman College of Business & Economics has decided to expand. Dr. Kemme, our Chair of Excellence in International Economics, was awarded with a Fellowship for the Short - Term Travel Grant Program. This program provides short - term funding so scholars can undertake short, targeted projects. Dr. Kemme did research on Samruk - Kazyna, a sovereign wealth fund in Kazakhstan. Dr. Okunade received a Certificate of Recognition from the African Finance and Economics Association in appreciation for his service and contributions to the Association as its Treasurer - Secretary. Dr. Okunade also received an Honorable ics journals: Dr. Hussey had no less than three papers accepted at fine journals, Labour Economics , Applied Economics , and the Journal of Law & Economics. Dr. Okunade had a second paper accepted at Health Economics , a top level journal in health economics. Our two new Assistant Professors are also off to great starts: Dr. Lee had a paper accepted at the Journal of Development Economics , the top journal in that field; Dr. Astorne - Figari had her first acceptance, at Economics Letters . Lastly, I Journal of Macroeconomics and the Journal of Banking & Finance , and has just had a paper accepted at the Southern Economic Journal . Finally, I am happy to announce that we will be hiring two new Assistant Professors, to start in the fall. One will special- ize in Macroeconomics, the other in Organizational Economics, empirical Industrial Organization, or Public Economics. We will have a number of job candidates visiting early in the spring semester to be interviewed and present their research. I encourage you attend their seminars! Dr. Hussey is chairing the Search Committee and will be posting their seminars as part of our seminar series. I hope you have a wonderful holiday and wish you the best in the New Year. Dr. William T. Smith, Chair FALL, 2013 Page 2 Intermediate Macro Theory ECON 3320 MW 12:40 - 2:05 Learn more about how the macro eco- nomic variables fit together and the implications for government policy. Principles of Macro is a prerequisite. Taught by Dr. Bill Smith. Money and Banking ECON 3610 M 5:30 - 8:30 What is the relationship between the central banks and the other banks in the U.S.? Outside of the U.S.? How do the deposits and earnings operations of banks fit into the larger economy? This class is taught by Mr. Richard Marsh, the Senior Vice President of Suntrust Bank. Principles of Macroe- conomics is the prerequisite. Economics of Poverty & Discrimina- tion ECON 4766 TR 1:00 - 2:25 This course examines the measure- ment, causes, and consequences of poverty, as well as the various policy solutions to poverty. It also examines numerous forms of discrimination and how they affect market outcomes. Taught by Dr. Doug Campbell. Beyond the Basics: Controversial Topics in Modern Economics ECON 4767 Online Course This course discusses controversial top- ics relevant to modern economics from an interdisciplinary perspective and ex- plores the role of psychology, sociology and political science in economic theory and policy. Taught by Dr. John Komlos, Professor Emeritus of Economics, Uni- versity of Munich. International Economics ECON 4350 TR 2:40 - 4:05 Trade deficit, globalization, comparative course emphasizes policy implications with Principles of Micro as the prereq- uisite. Taught by Dr. Joonhyung Lee. Interested in our MA program? Check out acad_index.html How about our PhD? Try http:// economics.memphis.edu/acad_index.html A wonderful website with lots of information about PhD programs nationwide is: http:// F ALL , 2013, PAGE 3 I grew up on the north - side of Chicago, IL with three older sib- lings. Both of my parents were employed with the City of Chica- go. My father was an auditor with the Department of General services, and although he held the position for sixteen plus years, I am still unsure as to what he did. I suppose he was the reason taxes were so high in Chicago. My mother is currently a program auditor with the Department of Family and Support Services. I knew her as the lady who audited homeless shelters, traveled to the economically marginalized south - side, and count- ed homeless people. Although I grew up in a fairly diverse neighborhood, I was bused to one of the more economically homogenous areas to attend a magnet school. The school was one of the best in the city and both of my elder brothers attended it. My sister, the oldest, attended a language arts academy and studied French in her earliest years. My parents are Nigerian immigrants and they first settled in Oklahoma where my three older siblings were born. They lived from the University of Central Oklahoma. Our family lived in Jefferson City, Missouri for three years (1992 - 95), where I was I have observed that one could answer this question in many different ways. Usually, I notice people who have a strong inter- est in the philosophy of economics. Seemingly magnificent ac- many of my classmates, as well as economically curious persons. Others are bewitched by the idea of the perfectly rational homo - economus, who can perfectly predict her behavior, act con- course, there are those who know that this degree is versatile in lowest unemployment rates and those who graduate with a median career earnings levels. In my case, what motivated me was the fact that not a lot of people understood economics. By nature economics seemed to be a repelling topic for people and I never understood why; and maximize profit, increase efficiency, or minimize risk I wanted to be involved in that discussion. I had been trusting experts to inform me on issues that I felt were really important and that became dull. Ultimately, I became disinterested in discussions with lay persons about why the price of gas was high, or why taxes are high, or why stores place certain items on sale. I knew economics would give me the tools to understand practical decisions I made on a daily basis; and that was and remains my primary motivation to study the econo- my. My favorite courses have been Behavioral Economics (Dr. Astorne - Figari), Intermediate Microeconomics (Dr. Hussey), Intermediate Macroeconomics (Dr. Smith), and Urban Economics (Dr. Campbell). All of the professors are approachable and assign ample homework to let the course material settle in. Some courses are more difficult than others, however the challenges motivated me to collaborate with other students in the course, which has resulted in me establish- ing strong supportive relationships with students from those courses. in a public advocacy firm, from which I will pursue my doctorate or law degree. Studying economics empowers you with an ability to predict your future behavior subject to given constraints. Economics can help you time manage, financially plan, allocate study time, or manage a long term project. It is a really diverse science which is applicable to multi- ple disciplines. Regardless if one is pursuing a job in education, soci- ology, anthropology, political science, law, or criminology, principles of economics can provide you with a unique perspective. My advice to other students would be to consider economics if you are unsure of what major to choose; it can spring board you into various other disciplines. If you want to seek an entrepreneurial ca- reer and own your own business, study economics because it will teach you about the big picture of a given market. Also, to students who are very interested or talented in mathematics, statistics, or calculus, study economics because you could significant- nomics. To students who find themselves trapped in an economics class that you do not understand, chances are you have colleagues in the same situation. Seek them out for assistance because it is not a simple science and you will benefit greatly from collaborating with others; all other things equal of course. Chimene Okere Econ Major SPOTLIGHT ON... - - FALL 2013, PAGE 4 SPOTLIGHT ON... Greg Lubiani U of M Graduate -