#http://www.memphis.edu/police/about/sat2.php
Service Excellence - Police Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Police Services Staff Directory About Incidents Tiger Escort Safety Info Lambuth About About Police Services Service Excellence Home Police Services About Service Excellence Reporting Substandard Service Police Services strives at all times to be respectful, courteous and professional in all communications and contacts with the community we serve. Through our partnership, we are dedicated to fulfilling our mission to make the University of Memphis a safer place to learn, work, live and visit. To ensure the integrity of the department while protecting the rights and interests of both community and department members, it is the policy of Police Services to investigate all reports of substandard service and complaints against its employees. Any person who witnesses, or has direct knowledge of, substandard service or employee misconduct may file a complaint with Police Services. Anyone who files a complaint will be treated in a respectful and professional manner. Police Services views all complaints against its employees seriously, and pledges to actively pursue investigations into reports of substandard service, including allegations of misconduct. For this reason, community members must ensure that their complaint is based on fact and must provide the department with all of the facts to the best of their knowledge. Deliberately providing false information could result in administrative disciplinary action (for students, faculty and staff), civil and criminal legal proceedings. Complaints may be made in person, in writing, or by telephone. To file a complaint/report of substandard service you may: Come by our office in the Zach Curlin Garage (next to Parking) and meet with a supervisor; or Submit a written complaint by letter. Letters may be delivered to our office or mailed to: Major Ray Craft The University of Memphis Police Services 100 Zach Curlin Parking Garage Memphis, TN 38152 E-mail your complaint. E-mail should be sent to the attention of Major Ray Craft at police@memphis.edu ; or Call 678-4357 (HELP) and ask to speak with a supervisor (Lieutenant or Sergeant). Complaints should be filed through an "on duty" supervisor. In the event a supervisor is not immediately available, all department employees are required to accept the complaint and forward it to a supervisor immediately. Anonymous complaints may be filed through Police Service's Silent Witness program; however, anonymous complaints may limit the department's ability to take appropriate action. Complaints may be filed at any time. Police Services is open 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. To facilitate investigations, complaints should be made immediately after the alleged misconduct. Note: A disagreement over the validity of a criminal charge or traffic citation is NOT a complaint. Such disagreements or legal issues must be resolved through the appropriate court. All complaints will be investigated, and the outcome will be based upon the facts and impartial evidence. At the conclusion of the investigation, complaints will be classified into one of the following dispositions: Unfounded The alleged act or incident did not occur, or the affected employee was not involved. Exonerated The act or incident occurred, but the actions taken were justified, lawful and proper. Not Sustained The investigation failed to discover sufficient evidence to prove or disprove the allegation. Sustained The evidence was sufficient to prove the allegation. Depending on the nature and severity of the misconduct, sustained allegations may result in one of the following disciplinary actions: additional training, counseling, reprimand, suspension, demotion, or termination. About About Police Services Service Excellence Campus Security &amp; Fire Safety Report This report is published annually Daily Incident Log Log covers the most recent 60-day period Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .