#http://www.memphis.edu/memphishealthyu/healthy.php
Eat Healthier - Memphis Healthy U - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Memphis Healthy U About Move More Eat Healthier Be Tobacco Free Other Info Home Memphis Healthy U Eat Healthier Eat Healthier We know that most chronic disease risk can be reduced by lifestyle changes, such as increased physical activity, healthy diet, and tobacco-free lifestyles. It's never too early to adopt positive lifestyles. A healthier lifestyle begins with smart food choices. While we are bombarded with fast foods, sugar-laden sodas, and large portion sizes, there are some easy ways to eat healthier. First, ditch the sodas and switch to water or sugar-free beverages. Next, include more fresh fruits and vegetables at meals and as snacks. Another idea is to the foods you love, but in smaller portions. Here is a way to gauge healthy food portions using common items: 3 oz serving of meat: smartphone ½ cup of pasta: computer mouse 1 oz cheese: first-generation iPod shuffle 1 teaspoon of olive oil or peanut butter: two earbuds 1 tablespoon of salad dressing, sour cream, or mayonnaise: small thumb drive ½ cup ice cream or frozen yogurt: AC power adapter 1 slice of bread: CD Tiger Dining will make it easier to choose healthy foods on campus. At all dining sites, Tiger Dining will feature the Memphis Healthy U logo prominently to help everyone identify healthy food choices. The signage will be fully visible and in a prime location as students, faculty, staff and guests make their selections. Check out some tools you can use to make healthier food choices: FAST FACTS: Did you know..... The food industry spends $30 billion per year on advertising. It takes 20 minutes for the brain to tell your body that you are full. 32-oz of regular cola contains about 425 calories Drinking a 20 ounce soda each day packs 92,783 extra calories and adds 26 pounds of body fat! The size of an average dinner plate has increased 36% in surface area since 1960. 6-8 nacho chips with cheese contain 34 grams of fat and over 1700 mg sodium. Small Changes Add Up Source website: The American Dietetic Association is now the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics . Here are more great ideas that will cut calories from your daily intake, possibly without your even noticing: Downsize Your Dishes. Use smaller plates and bowls to help you eat less. We tend to fill up the dish we're using and then eat it all. Our brains also think we are getting more when the same amount of food is placed in a smaller dish. Savor Your Meals. Eating slowly helps you consume only what your body needs to feel satisfied. Eating too quickly, in less than 20 to 30 minutes, leads to overeating and feeling uncomfortably full afterwards. Leave Some Food on Your Plate. This is especially important if you grew up in the "clean plate club." By leaving even a few bites, you can focus more on your internal signals of satisfaction and less on eating food just because it is there. Don't Eat Out of a Bag or Box. When you eat out of a package, you are likely to keep eating until it's all gone – no matter how many servings the package actually contains. Pour one serving into a small bowl. Choose Your Glass Wisely. When glasses are short and wide, we tend to fill them with more fluid and to drink more. Use a slender glass for any beverage except water. Rethink Your Drinks. High-calorie beverages like soft drinks, juice drinks, energy drinks, specialty coffees and alcohol add calories just like solid foods. Whenever possible, replace these drinks with plenty of water. Midday Moves Take a break from your day and join in a physical activity with Midday Moves! Let's Talk Health A production of the Department of Communication &amp; the Loewenberg School of Nursing Healthier TN Workplace Learn more about the Healthier Tennessee initiative. Limited-Use Tobacco Policy The limited-use tobacco policy of the University of Memphis Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .