#http://www.memphis.edu/mscm/pdfs/newsletter/mscm_newsletter_vol_1_2010s.pdf
Department Newsletter Volume 1 Spring 2010 Volume 1, Spring 2010 Page 2 Welcome from the Chair Dear Students, Parents, Alumni, Colleagues, and Friends: Welcome to the inaugural newsletter of the Department of Marketing & Supply Chain Management. We wish to establish new and stronger connections with our constituent groups and a semi - annual newsletter is the first step in that direction. Our depart mental mission is to create and disseminate knowledge in the areas of marketing, supply chain management and operations management that serves the Fogelman College of Business & Economics (FCBE). In support of our mission, we offer a number of high - quality programs, including undergraduate majors in Marketing Management and Logistics/Supply Chain Management. At the graduate level, we offer a PhD in Marketing, and provide numerous courses for the MBA, EMBA, CDMBA, and IMBA programs. In addition, we offer min ors in m arketing m anagement, l ogistics/ s upply c hain m anagement and sales. All of our programs are designed to prepare students for success in the global business environment. Our faculty members have expertise in areas ranging from consumer behavior t o marketing strategy to operations management to simulation & optimization, and are nationally recognized for their expertise and accomplishments. In this first issue of the newsletter, we highlight these accomplishments and activities of our department f aculty members and Ph.D. students. In addition, our department graduate assistant , Cory Moore , profile s Dr. Shawn Jones . As we continue to grow and enhance our programs, we want to hear from you. Please feel free to email me at mstaffrd@memphis.edu or call me at 678 - 2499. Marla B. Royne Stafford Marla B. Royne Stafford, Ph.D. Professor & Chair Volume 1, Spring 2010 Page 3 Table of Contents Welcome from the Chair ................................ .......................... 2 ................................ .............. 4 Announcements, Awards, and Recognitions .......................... 6 Events and Activities ................................ .............................. 7 Publications ................................ ................................ ............. 8 Meet the MSCM Faculty ................................ ........................ 10 Volume 1, Spring 2010 Page 4 Dr. Shawn J ones Assistant Professor B.S., Aeronautics, Miami University (OH) M.S., Logistics Management, Air Force Institute of Technology Ph.D., Supply Chain Managemen t, Michigan State University Dr. Shawn Jones joined the University of Memphis MSCM department in Fall 2008. Previously, he served 12 years as an officer for the United States Air Force, attaining rank of major during his tenure. Dr. Jones joined the Univ Dr. Jones was kind enough to sit down with us and discuss the city of Memphis, why he decided to pursue a career in academia, and his experiences with the University o f Memphis so far. How has the Memphis community treated you and your family in the year and a half you have lived here ? We very much like the community. We rented a place down on Deloach so we actually walked to school for a while, which was a great way to get the family things. The kids love being able to watch the hockey games, the minor league baseball games, the Memphis Tigers games, as well as the Grizzli es. What would you say is the biggest difference between and Memphis and previous places I was born and raised in Ohio. Being in the Air of moving every two to three years. For my 10 - year - old da Memphis still has a lot of southern hospitality going for it. But the biggest difference between Ohio/Michigan and Memphis is definitely the weather! What motivated you to pursue a Ph . D . and jump into the field of academia? I think I had something to offer. I was still in the Air Force when the opportunity came up. Still as an active duty Air Force member, the service actually p aid me to get my Ph.D. for the first year. A year into the program, the Air Force was doing some restructuring and offered me the opportunity to leave. I got into the program not knowing what to expect, but knowing that I did not want to leave the Air Forc e when I started. But I got into the Ph.D. program, found out I really enjoyed the teaching and the research, and found myself very surprised to take the opportunity when they presented it. So, I left the Air Force and finished the Ph.D., and I knew that I had enough interesting stories to keep classes entertained for an hour and a half of the time and keep passing that information along. Volume 1, Spring 2010 Page 5 What is your favorite aspect of teaching? different side of supply cha in management. Especially for the classes I teach, the majority of people take it because it is a requirement for to put that little nagging voice in the back of their eter or an accountant, (they understand that) all of these things are interrelated and the decisions they make in their one area could have a far - reaching impact across the company. So if nothing else, I want to be that one nagging voice that reminds them most enjoyable thing : just trying to broaden their minds. Has a particular student really stood out during your tenure here? especially as a new professor to see those you on the exams and on their class say that in the three se from the crowd. Give us some details on the Supply Chain Management Student Association. students have actually come to us last semester chain management association for the student organization organized, I have a list of guest speakers who would love to come and talk be organized. We had our first meeting October of last year and did all the administrative things. m impressive guest speakers from FedEx, International Paper, and Apex. W to start doing some tours which will be a lot of ted to FedEx at midnight to crawl all over that place and see yard has invited us out. We have about five or members want to go first. What research are you currently working on? One of the things as a new faculty member I walked in and got to make the class my own. So are out under review right now focused on figuring out the balance of information technology and supply chain management: where the trade - offs are and where the ideal amount of information is for people to make decisions. A couple of new opportunities I have coming to a school that is very much integrated with marketing is to broaden my horizons. (Universit y of Memphis Assistant Professor) George Deitz and I have been collaborating on working on simulation studies and its impact on students. I also have a graduate student who has opened my eyes to anthropomorphism ; looking at how marketers are using that mor e and more and how it rubs off on you. A longer term project is continuous information management stream , looking into the secure supply chains and supply chain security risk management. Any closing thoughts? I would like them to know that we have some o utstanding programs and graduates. My goal to work on over the next few years is to better find these ties to the local industries. I would love for more of them to come out and get to see the quality of our students, because it is impressive. At the same time, I would like to see our students and graduates get involved in the community and see the opportunities that are right around them in Memphis. Volume 1, Spring 2010 Page 6 A NNOUNCEMENTS INFORMS Southern Regional Conference Dr. Tina Wakolbinger is a Member of the 2010 INFORMS So uthern Regional Conference Organizing Committee, Huntsville, AL, April 5 - 7, 2010. The regional conference will be held jointly with the conference of the Military Applications Society (MAS) of INFORMS. While the programs will be developed separately, the s essions will run concurrently, and there will be some common events such as plenary talks, social events, etc. The goal is to leverage the interest in these two separate events to create an environment that brings together academics, industry practitioner s, and the public sector to exchange knowledge and encourage future collaboration. Please contac t Tina at tbwklbng@memphis.edu if you are interested in organizing a session or presenting a talk at this conference . ______________________________________________________________________________ AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS Dr. Wakolbinger receives Fogelman Award Congratulations to Dr. Tina Wakolbinger on her paper Multiperiod effects of corporate social responsibility o n supply chain networks, transaction cost, emissions, and risk for winning the 2008 Best Paper Award of the Fogelman College of Business and Economics in the Conceptual/Theoretical Category. Co - authored with Jose Cruz, the paper was published in the Inte rnational Journal of Production Economics , Volume 116 , Issue 1 . Dr. Wakolbinger received the award on August 27, 2009, from Dean Rajiv Grover . The paper can be viewed via Science Direct her e . Dr. Deitz receives Bowersox Award Congratulations to Dr. George Deitz on his paper - Coerced Integration: The Effects of Retail Supply Ch ain Technology Mandates on Supplier Shareholder Wealth for winning the Bowersox Award for Best Paper in Supply Chain Management at the 2009 Society for Marketing Advances (SMA) Conference . Along with his co - authors, John D. Hansen (University of Souther n Mississippi) and R. Glenn Richey (University of Alabama), Dr. Deitz accepted the award on November 5, 2009, at the 2009 Supply Chain Management & Industrial Distribution (SCMID) Symposium in New Orleans, Louisiana. Dr. Amini joins JBL Interest Group Dr. Mehdi Amini recently accepted an invitation from the Journal of Business Logistics to join the JBL Interest Group . This elite group seeks to better communicate the latest news regarding the journal (editorial mission, special issues, acceptance rate, etc. ) and to seek ideas and insight Volume 1, Spring 2010 Page 7 EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES Discover Your Major Day The department would like to thank instructor Dale Kehr, Ph . D . candidate John Cicala, Dr. George Deitz, an d Dr. Michael Cervetti for participating in the annual Discover Your Major Day, held on October 1 , 2009, at the Rose Theatre. By volunteering to share their experiences, they obtained more than 60 contacts of undecided students. Congratulations! Dr. Wakol binger presents two papers at INFORMS Dr. Tina Wakolbinger presented the following papers at the INFORMS Annual Meeting, held in San Diego, CA from October 11 - 14, 2009: An Analysis of Fundraising Strategies for Disaster Relief Operations, (with F. Toyasaki ) Alternative Supply Chain Management Strategies for New Product Diffusion: An ABMS Approach, (with M. Amini, M. Racer, and M. Nejad) Dr. Wakolbinger participates in Austrian Science Talks 2009 Dr. Tina Wakolbinger received a travel grant to participate i n t he Austrian Science Talks 2009 held in New Orleans on October 3, 2009. The Austrian Science Talk brings together Austrian scientists and scholars in North America with a delegation of Austrian experts in Science, Research, and Technology Policy to discu ss policy developments and new opportunities. U of M to host Southeast Marketing Symposium The Department of Marketing & Supply Chain Management and the Fogelman College of Business & Economics will host approximately 65 participants at the 4 th annual Sou theast Marketing Symposium on Friday, February 5 th . The Symposium is comprised of program coordinators and Ph.D. students from eight business schools from the southeast region : Florida State , Louisiana State , Mississippi State , Alabama , Kentucky , Memphis , Ole Miss , and Tennessee - Knoxville . The purpose of the Symposium is to facilitate sharing of research interests and activities among the participating Ph.D. students, as well as to provide networking opportunities for these students upon their graduation. the Fogelman College of Business & Economics, the Department of Marketing & Supply Chain Management, and the FedEx Center for Supply Chain Management. The program opens with a reception and dinner upon arrival Thur sday night, followed by a day of student research presentations and panel discussions by the Ph.D. coordinators . In addition, Florida State University is sponsoring a breakfast on Friday morning honoring Dr. O.C. Ferrell from the University of New Mexico f or his consistent and long - running support of doctoral education in marketing. Dr. Ferrell was a Distinguished Professor of Marketing & Business Ethics at the University of Memphis from 1989 1998. Dr. Ferrell is a past President of the Academic Council of the American Marketing Association and has been a strong supporter of doctoral education in marketing throughout his career. Volume 1, Spring 2010 Page 8 PUBLICATIONS Dr. Babakus published in Journal of Retailing Dr. Emin Babakus has an article featured in the December 2009 issue of the Journal of Retailing. The journal is a premier business research journal with a high impact score (2008 SSCI Impact Factor: 4.095 and 5 - Year Impact Factor: 4.978). Babakus, E., Yavas, U., & Ashill, N. (2009). The Role of Customer Orientation as a Moderator of the Job Demand Burnout Performance Relationship: A Surface - Level Trait Perspective. Journal of Retailing , 85 (4), 480 - 492. To view the article via ProQuest, please click here . Ph.D. candidate to be published in Journal of Current Issues and Research in Advertising Ph.D. candidate Christine Kowalczyk has an article forthcoming in Journal of Current Issues and Research in Advertising enti tled "Are Products More Real on Reality Shows? An Exploratory Study of Product Placement in Reality Television Programming , " co - authored with MSCM D epartment C hair Dr. Marla Royne Stafford. The exploratory study empirically assessed attitudes and behavior s toward a product placement in a reality program and examined the concepts of perceived realism and skepticism. The study was funded in part by a research fellowship awarded to Ms. Kowalczyk from the Enterprise Simulation and Optimization Lab (eSOL) and t he Department of Marketing & Supply Chain Management at the University of Memphis. The article is schedule for publication in Fall 2011. Recent articles published including MSCM Faculty and Ph.D. Students Deitz, George , Hansen, J., & R. Richey Jr. (2009). The effects of retailer supply chain technology mandates on supplier stock returns. International Journal of Physical Distribution & Logistics Management , 39 (10), 814 - 825. Deitz, George , Myers, S. , & M. Markley. (2009). A Resource - Matching Based View of Sponsorship Information Processing. Journal of Current Issues & Research in Advertising , 31 (1), 75 - 87. Henley Jr., W. , Philhours, M. , Ranganathan, S. , & Alan Bush . (2009). The Effects of Symbol Product Relevance and Religiosity on Consumer Perceptions of Christian Symbols in Advertising . Journal of Current Issues & Research in Advertising , 31 (1), 89 - 103. Levy, M. & Marla B. Royne Stafford (2009). The Impact of Consumers' Health Literacy on Public Health . Journal of Consumer Affairs , 43( 2 ), 357 - 362. Volume 1, Spring 2010 Page 9 Levy , M. & Marla B. Royne Stafford. (2009). Up for Sale: Consumer Medical Information. Journal of Consumer Marketing , 26(7), 465 - 467. McKenzie, K. & Marla B. Royne Stafford . (2009). Defining and Understanding Communications Planning: A Current Assessment and an Exploratory Study. Journal of Promotion Management , 15(3), 341 - 356. Mehra, S atish & M. Rhee . (2009). On the application of quality management concepts in education: A n example of a Korean classroom. The International Journal of Quality & Reliability Ma nagement, 26 (4), 312 - 324. Nejad, M . G., R . D. Evans, Jr., & E min Babakus . (2009). Alternative Measures of Price Perceptions: Implications for Service Evaluation Models . Services Marketing Quarterly , 30 (4), 397 - 417. Song, M. & Jeff Thieme . (2009). The Role of Suppliers in Market Intelligence Gathering for Radical and Incremental Innovation. Journal of Product Innovation Management , 26 (1), 43 - 57. Yavas, U . & E min Babakus . (2009). Export Involvement by SMEs: Correlates and Characterist ics. Journal of Internat ional Marketing and Marketing Research, 34 (2), 85 - 95. Yavas, U . & E min Babakus . (2009). Retail Store Loyalty: A Comparison of Two Customer Segments . International Journal of Retail and Distribution Management , 37 (6), 477 - 492 . Forthcoming articles includi ng MSCM Faculty Babakus, E min , U . Yavas, & N. J. Ashill. (2009). Service Worker Burnout and Turnover Intentions: Roles of Person - Job Fit, Servant Leadership and Customer Orientation. Services Marketing Quarterly . Pérez - Nordtvedt, L . , E min Babakus , & B . L. K edia. (2009). Learning from International Business Affiliates: Developing Resource - Based Learning Capacity through Networks and Knowledge Acquisition . Journal of International Management . Yavas, U ., & E min Babakus . (2009). Modeling Patronage behavior: A T ri - Partite Conceptualization . Journal of Consumer Marketing . Yavas, U . , E min Babakus , & N . J. Ashill . (2009) . Testing a Branch Performance Model in a New Zealand Bank . Journal of Services Marketing . Volume 1, Spring 2010 Page 10 Meet the Marketing and Supply Chain Management Faculty Dr. Marla Royne Stafford Professor and Chair Dr. Mohammad Amini Professor Dr. Emin Babakus Professor Dr. A lan Bush Professor Mary Caywood Instructor Dr. Michael Cervetti Instructor Dr. George Deitz Assistant Professor Volume 1, Spring 2010 Page 11 Roger Iles Instructor Dr. Shawn Jones Assistant Professor Dale K ehr Instructor Assistant Professor Dr. Satish Mehra Professor Dr. Ernest Nichols Associate Professor Dr. Michael Racer Associate Professor Dr. Daniel Sherrell P rofessor Dr. Rachel Smith Assistant Professor Dr. Peter Tat Associate Professor Dr. Jeff Thieme Associate Professor Dr. Tina Wakolbinger Assistant Professor Volume 1, Spring 2010 Page 12 For more information about the Department of Marketing and Locate us on the web at: V isit us on the University of Memphis campus: Fogelman Administration Building Room 302 3675 Central Avenue Memphis , TN 38152 - 3120 Staff Contact s : Joyce Wilson MSCM Department Administrative Assistant Phone: (901) 678 - 2667 E - Mail: jwilson@memphis.edu Cory Moore MSCM Department Graduate Assistant E - mail: camoore2@memphis.edu