#http://www.memphis.edu/anthropology/people/keri-brondo.php
Dr. Keri Vacanti Brondo - Department of Anthropology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Student Life Resources People in the Department of Anthropology Faculty &amp; Staff Emeriti Faculty Faculty in Other Departments Part-time Instructors Student Directory Home Department of Anthropology People Dr. Keri Vacanti Brondo Dr. Keri Vacanti Brondo Associate Professor Phone (901) 678-2080 Email kbrondo@memphis.edu Fax (901) 678-2069 Office 304 Manning Hall, Memphis, TN 38152 Office Hours Call for Hours CV About Dr. Brondo Dr. Keri Vacanti Brondo received her PhD from Michigan State University in 2006. Dr. Brondo is active in leadership within the American Anthropological Association (AAA). She served as the Chair on the Committee on the Status of Women in Anthropology (COSWA), the Chair on the Committee on Practicing, Applied and Public Interest Anthropology (CoPAPIA), and currently serves on the Executive Board of the American Anthropological Association. She was also one of the principal actors in developing the AAA "Guidelines for Evaluating Scholarship in the Realm of Practicing, Applied, and Public Interest Anthropology for Academic Promotion and Tenure," adopted by the AAA Executive Board in 2011. Dr. Brondo's first solo-authored book, Land Grab, is an ethnographic account of the relationship between identity politics, neoliberal development policy, and rights to resource management in afroindigenous Garifuna communities on the north coast of Honduras. The book employs feminist political ecology and critical race and ethnic studies to shed light on current development paradoxes in Honduras. Dr. Brondo is the former Chair (2010-2012) and active member of the Engaged Scholarship Committee, Co-Chair of the Gender and Environment Research Group with the Center for Research on Women (CROW), and Coordinator of the Graduate Program in Anthropology at the University of Memphis. Expertise and Interests Environmental Anthropology, Gender and Development, Indigeneity, Territorial Rights, Conservation, Voluntourism and Sustainability, Social Justice, Applied and Engaged Anthropology, Applied Qualitative Methods, Central America, US. Research Projects Dr. Brondo's scholarship contributes to basic research, theory, and application in the areas of the anthropology of environment and development, indigenous rights, and gender and social justice. Her international research focuses on the relationship between indigenous rights, tourism development, and territorial control in Honduras' Garifuna communities. Her emerging research in Utila, Honduras, focuses on exploring the sociocultural impacts of conservation research voluntourism. In the United States, Brondo's work centers on gender equity in anthropological careers; collaborative research on the interconnection between parks, people, and conservation; and the sociocultural impacts of green infrastructure in the City of Memphis. She and her students have been exploring the relationship between public fisheries and regional food security, and public perceptions of forest health and environmental governance in Shelby Farms Park and Overton Park. Selected Publications 2013 Brondo, Keri Vacanti. Land Grab: Green Neoliberalism, Gender, and Garifuna Resistance. University of Arizona Press. 2012 Brondo, Keri Vacanti and Linda Bennett. Career Subjectivities in American Anthropology: Gender, Practice, and Resistance. American Athropologist. 114(4): 598-610. 2011 Brondo, Keri Vacanti and Natalie Bown. Neoliberal Conservation, Garifuna Territorial Rights, and Resource Management in the Cayos Cochinos Protected Area. Conservation &amp; Society. 9(2): 91-105. 2010 Brondo, Keri Vacanti. When Mestizo Becomes (Like) Indio...or is it Garifuna?: Negotiating Indigeneity and 'Making Place' on Honduras' North Coast. Journal of Latin American and Caribbean Anthropology. 15(1): 171-194. 2010 Brondo, Keri Vacanti. Practicing Anthropology in a Time of Crisis: 2009 Year in Review. American Anthropologist. 112(2): 208-218. Selected Awards 2014 Community Health and Environmental Justice Conference Planning Grant (Co-Pi: Robert Marczynski) Green Fee Sustainability Grant. University of Memphis. 2011 Professional Development Award from the College of Arts and Sciences at the University of Memphis 2010 Early Career Research Award from the College of Arts and Sciences at the University of Memphis Courses Globalization, Development, and Culture (ANTH 7400) Culture and Consumerism (ANTH 4431/6431) Cultural Perspectives on the Environment (ANTH 4220/6220) Anthropology of Tourism (ANTH 4413/6413) Contemporary Anthropology Theory (ANTH 4065) Introduction to Cultural Anthropology (ANTH 1200) Additional Resources NAPA Bulletin: Intersections of Faith and Development in Local-Global Contexts Strengthening Communities Grants 2013 Study Abroad: Anthropology of Tourism in Costa Rica Section Summit on the Changing Job Market and Student Training: Linking Anthropology Departments and Practice Land Loss and Garifuna Women's Activism on Honduras' North Coast The AAA/CoPAPIA Anthropology MA Career Survey COSWA Report on Work Climate, Gender, and Status of Practicing Anthropologists Commercial Appeal: Young documentarians help preserve Beltline community's rich past People in the Department of Anthropology Faculty &amp; Staff Emeriti Faculty Faculty in Other Departments Part-time Instructors Student Directory Undergrads: Declare Anthropology your major! Join the Graduate Program Learn about applied and engaged anthropology! News and Events Find out what's happening in the Department of Anthropology Contact Us Main office location and numbers, undergraduate and graduate advising Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .