#http://www.memphis.edu/music/Academics/musbus.php
Music Business - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Academics Degrees Offered Applied Music Brass Class Piano Collaborative Piano Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Vocal Arts Woodwinds Composition, Theory and Musicology Conducting and Large Ensembles Jazz Studies Music Education Area Information Orff Summer Institute Graduate Studies in Music Education Music Industry Music Library Home Music Academics Music Business The constantly changing climate of the music business serves as the backdrop for the Music Business Area which offers a Bachelor of Music degree with an emphasis in Music Business. Undergraduate Music Business majors learn by studying a wide range of topics, including Legal Aspects of the Music Industry, Record Contracts, Music Publishing, Artists Management, Record Company Operations I and II, Internet Marketing and Distribution and International Music Business. The Music Business emphasis is designed to combine real-life work experience with classroom instruction in order to prepare graduates for entry and mid-level careers in the music and entertainment industries, as well for a variety of entrepreneurial opportunities as business owners and independent contractors. Career opportunities for outstanding Music Business majors include positions at major and independent companies in areas such as commercial and independent music production, booking, artists and business management, marketing, promotion, publicity, music publishing and entertainment law. Faculty in the Music Business Area are active and well-established as singers, songwriters, producers and/or record company executives. They have provided a variety of services for performing artists, record labels, film companies and management agencies throughout the country as attorneys, managers, marketing and public relations directors and booking agents. Students are encouraged to become active members of the division's multiple student organizations in order to gain hands-on experience working, interning and volunteering with local and regional entertainment companies: MEISA (Music and Entertainment Industry Students' Association) – A national organization designed to connect students with industry professionals. BlueT.O.M. (Tigers of Memphis) Records – Our student-run record label that gives students the opportunity to operate their own record company and release their own music. Grammy University – Student Chapter of the Recording Academy where students get the same benefits as associated members but at a reduced price. For more information on the division, please contact Ben Yonas at bgyonas@memphis.edu . Academics Degrees Offered Applied Music Brass Class Piano Collaborative Piano Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Vocal Arts Woodwinds Composition, Theory and Musicology Conducting and Large Ensembles Jazz Studies Music Education Area Information Orff Summer Institute Graduate Studies in Music Education Music Industry Music Library Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .