#http://blogs.memphis.edu/crep/author/rbooth-2/
The Center for Research in Educational Policy (CREP) | Author | Ruby Booth Main menu Skip to content Home The Center for Research in Educational Policy (CREP) The Center for Research in Educational Policy (CREP) Search for: Author Archives: Ruby Booth Nov 15 2014 What we do Posted by Ruby Booth While our evaluation work is wide-ranging, we have developed certain specialized areas of expertise, including:  Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM)  School Leadership  Literacy  School Climate and Culture  Educational Technology  Federal Supplemental Educational Services  School Improvement and Effectiveness Posted in CREP | Tagged Educational Technology , Federal Supplemental Educational Services , Literacy , School Climate , School Culture , School Improvement , School Leadership , STEM | Leave a comment | Nov 14 2014 Hello World Posted by Ruby Booth The University of Memphis&#8217; Center for Research in Educational Policy (CREP) is a State of Tennessee Center of Excellence. Since 1989, we have been committed to improving education by serving as a valuable resource in educational research, evaluation, and consultation. A major research focus for CREP includes planning and conducting high-quality studies and evaluations to determine what works in schools. In this regard, CREP has served as a consultant or direct contributor to research addressing the goals of Race to the Top and No Child Left Behind, as proposed by the National Academy of Sciences, the What Works Clearinghouse, and the Center on Innovation &amp; Improvement. Additionally, CREP assists schools, districts, and states in building the capacity and ability to attain Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) standards. The tools and strategies CREP developed as part of its Formative Evaluation Process for School Improvement (FEPSI) have become primary resources of assistance for schools across the nation. We seek to address the educational community&#8217;s diverse needs by designing customized evaluation methods to fit each project. These tools address critical improvement factors, such as teaching methods and quality, school climate, teacher support, student attitudes, parent and community involvement, technology use, program implementation, and student achievement. Posted in CREP | Leave a comment | Search for: Recent Posts Does Responsive Classroom teaching help students learn? March 25, 2015 School cafeteria food = GROSS or healthy? March 16, 2015 What we do November 15, 2014 Hello World November 14, 2014 Archives March 2015 November 2014 Categories Article summaries CREP &copy; The Center for Research in Educational Policy (CREP) Skip to toolbar University of Memphis University Home Memphis Blogs Blogging Help Log In Search