#http://www.memphis.edu/drs/assistivetech/adaptivetechlab.php
Assistive Technology Lab - Disability Resources for Students - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Disability Resources for Students About Access Accommodations Technology Policies Career Programs Faculty Assistive Technology Assistive Technology Lab Loan Equipment Equipment Check-out Home Disability Resources for Students Assistive Technology Assistive Technology Lab Assistive Technology Lab Disability Resources for Students runs an Assistive Technology Lab (ATL) located in the Learning Commons on the first floor of McWherter Library. The ATL is open to any student registered with DRS after they have gone through an orientation and have had a special password set. The ATL contains state-of-the-art assistive hardware and computers with assistive software. The computers also are configured with internet access and software equivalent to other University TigerLAN Labs. The ATL is open the same hours as the Learning Commons and is staffed 20 hours per week by a graduate assistant who can provide students with training and assistance using the computer technology available in the ATL. Appointments can be set with the graduate assistant by calling the DRS office (901.678.2880). The ATL contains the following assistive items with site licenses for multiple users for all software: Computer Based Software Programs Dragon Naturally Speaking -A voice recognition input system for persons with manual (hand/arm) impairments or written expression learning disabilities. Say it and it types it Up to 99% accurate; Gets smarter as you use it Short training time to get started Create documents at up to 160 words per minute, with read back capability Surf the web by voice Dictate into a recorder and play into a computer later Inspiration -A visual organizing tool creating pictorial and graphic representations of ideas Assists in organizing thoughts for written documents Displays ideas in easily understood format It is particularly helpful for people who have difficulty with traditional linear outlines and with planning and organizing papers. JAWS -A complete screen reader for persons with substantial visual impairments Reads out loud, text and links on the computer screen Multiple user selected languages Many commands to operate other software, edit documents, and read Web pages Drives refreshable Braille displays Kurzweil 1000 -A computer screen reading system which converts text material displayed on the computer screen to voice output for persons who are blind. Kurzweil 1000 will also convert text files to audio files in WAV or MP3 formats. Kurzweil 3000 -A computer screen reading system which converts text material displayed on the computer screen to voice output for persons with reading disabilities. Text can be displayed in various colors and words being read can be highlighted as they are read aloud. Kurzweil 3000 will also convert text files to audio files in WAV or MP3 formats. MAGic -A screen magnifier/screen reader software program for visual impairments or reading disabilities Magnifies the entire computer screen up to 36 times, in individual increments Reads the screen text aloud Useful for Web browsing, letter writing, blogging, chatting, and other social activities PDF Magic -A program for converting normally "inaccessible" PDF files Converts to any one of 11 different accessible formats Works with any of 155 languages. Scientific Notebook -A text editing program for creating documents that contain text, mathematics, and graphics. All-inclusive Toolbars with symbols and notations create 2-D and 3-D plots Logical Design Natural Math Notation Computer Algebra Solve equations within documents Prepare reports and homework Run external programs, such as a search engine, directly from Scientific Notebook RTF export to share work with others who do not have Scientific Notebook Scientific Viewer -Companion software program to Scientific Notebook Available for free download A allows others to read files created in Scientific Notebook Use to Print read-only documents created with Scientific Notebook Test-Talker -Software which displays a scanned talking version of tests, worksheets and other documents Presents the document both auditory and visual formats Allows insertion of answers to test questions. and other data TextHelp Read/Write Gold -A comprehensive software program for students with composing, spelling, writing and grammar issues Reads on-screen text out loud, highlighting each word as it is read Extensive Dictionary and Thesaurus Word prediction and Spoken Pronunciation Talking Spell Checker and Dictionary with sample sentences Speak to write (Voice Recognition) Assistive software for student use is available for installation in other University of Memphis computer labs as needed. *** FLASH *** We have links to demos of three great software programs TextHelp Read &amp; Write Gold 10 Reading and Composing Papers Kurzweil 3000 Reading and Studying Dragon Naturally Speaking Entering text by Speaking Inspiration v9 Select the title to Link to software demonstrations. (If the links don't work, copy the link for each software into your browser) ASSISTIVE HARDWARE Oversize Trackball Mouse with an oversized trackball and oversized mouse buttons is installed on one of the lab computers for use by students with manual (hand operation) impairments. The trackball mouse can be moved to any of the ATL computers. Large Key Keyboards are available for students with manual (hand operation) impairments and can be installed on any of the ATL computers. Foreign language keyboards in Spanish and Arabic Head Mouse is a special adaptive mouse for use by students with no manual (hand operation) ability. It can be installed to input keyboard commands to the computer through an infrared transmitter projecting an infrared beam onto the computer screen. CCTV's Aladdin Genie Pro closed circuit variable magnifier which is linked to a computer to allow persons with low vision to enlarge external materials (such as books, notes or objects) onto the monitor at their chosen power of magnification and to use the computer simultaneously, switching between each. The Aladdin is especially useful when a user is referring to enlarged notes or text while writing papers on the ATL computer. MyReader stand alone CCTVT will scan and save documents for playback on the screen in varying enlargements. The screen foreground/background colors can be varied and the screen can be displayed in several formats. Power Braille 80 - - a refreshable Braille display unit which allows blind users to read the computer screen by Braille output and to access formatted text materials such as columnar text, spreadsheets or complex web pages. Versapoint Duo with Speech -- high quality, high volume interpoint Braille embosser which speaks menus so that persons who are blind can operate it. Scanner – combination flat bed scanner and automatic document feed scanner available for student use. Materials may be scanned to acquire images and text for use in reports or papers. The scanned material(s) can be saved in text or picture formats. The files can also be loaded into specialized software that can convert the text in the files into actual text documents for editing, copying, cutting, pasting and printing. The ATL is also equipped with adjustable chairs and with electrically operated wheelchair height-adjustable work stations. Assistive Technology in other Campus Locations Dragon NaturallySpeaking Lambuth Campus JAWS University Center (TigerLAN) Lab: 3 computer stations English Learning Center, 225 Patterson: All computer stations Business Learning Center, 256 FC: All computer stations ESP Office, Science Learning Center, 217 Mitchell: All computer stations ESP Academic Enhancement Center, 256 Mitchell: All computer stations MAGic University Center (TigerLAN) Lab: 3 computer stations English Learning Center, 225 Patterson: All computer stations Business Learning Center, 256 FC: All computer stations ESP Office, Science Learning Center, 217 Mitchell: All computer stations ESP Academic Enhancement Center, 256 Mitchell: All computer stations Lambuth Campus Assistive Technology Assistive Technology Lab Loan Equipment Equipment Check-out Contact DRS DRS Announcements Student and Faculty Awards Thanks to Our Volunteer Note-takers! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .