#http://www.memphis.edu/memphishealthyu/tobacco.php
Be Tobacco Free - Memphis Healthy U - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Memphis Healthy U About Move More Eat Healthier Be Tobacco Free Other Info Home Memphis Healthy U Be Tobacco Free Be Tobacco Free Breathe in Good Air Since 1612, when Pocahantas’ husband John Rolfe became the first European American to grow it, tobacco has been a habit of many Americans. However, today in 2012, as UofM Tigers enter its new century, the UofM’s Memphis Healthy U initiative seeks to promote a healthier campus environment for its students, staff faculty and visitors. When it comes to tobacco use, the UofM community is already becoming a health conscious campus in which the majority of students, faculty and staff do not smoke or use tobacco products. The CORE Survey (2006 – 2011) shows that actual reported tobacco use among students has declined on campus from 33% in 2006 to 11.4% in 2011. That’s 88.6% of UofM students are tobacco free. National average according to a 2011 American College of Health Association (ACHA) of non-smokers is 85% and of non-users of smokeless tobacco is 96%. It was March of 2010 when the UofM Student Government Association began its drive for and ultimately passed a resolution to make UofM a limited tobacco use campus. This resolution was presented to the Faculty and Staff Senates which passed similar resolutions. In October 2012,the UofM joined more than 776 U.S. Colleges and Universities that have some limited tobacco use and/or smoke-free policies. Visit for more information on the UofM’s Limited Tobacco Use policy. Tobacco Use vs. Your Health and Your Fellow Tigers Since the first Surgeon General’s report on tobacco in 1964, we know significantly more about the effects of tobacco. We know that tobacco use of any kind, active or passive, is a significant health hazard (ACHA). Environmental tobacco smoke is classifies as a Class-A carcinogen, with no safe level of exposure. Man, what are you smoking? Smoking tobacco causes: Cancer Heart Disease Lung Diseases (including emphysema, bronchitis, and chronic airway obstruction) Premature birth, low birth weight, still birth and infant death Did you know that smokers have lower grade point averages (GPA) than nonsmokers? Harvard College Alcohol Study found that smokers are 27% less likely than nonsmokers to have an above B grade average (Riggotti, 2000). R.E.S.P.E.C.T. your fellow Tiger, family and friends Exposure to Environmental Tobacco Smoke (ETS), or “second-hand” smoke contains higher concentrations of ammonia, benzene, nicotine and carbon monoxide than the mainstream smoke that smokers inhale (Brownson, 1997). Secondhand exposure to smoke can cause: Heart disease Lung cancer Severe asthma attacks Respiratory infections Ear infections and sudden infant death syndrome (SID) Chew on this fact Smokeless tobacco causes cancer of the mouth, gums, periodontitis and tooth loss. Cigar use causes cancer of the larynx, mouth, esophagus and lung. With a Little Help from Your Friends, You Can Quit. If you haven’t started don’t. It is commonly known that if a person does not begin smoking by age 24, they will more likely never smoke. If you have started, know that it is never too late to quit. Tobacco use is addictive, but not impossible to overcome. You just need a little help from your friends. Here are just a few of the on- and off-campus resources that you should take advantage of to help you kick the tobacco habit. Quitting Can Be Easier with a Little Support. Want to quit? Remember you are not alone. Memphis Healthy U wants you to know that there are many on- and off-site tobacco cessation resources at your disposal. Look at the myriad of ways you can get the support you need to kick the tobacco habit. ON CAMPUS Student Health Services Behavior Change Counseling Free for students! Located on campus at 200 Hudson Health Center Hours: by appointment or walk-in as available 901.678.1141 Psychological Services Center Behavior Change Counseling Fee based on sliding scale starting at $7 Open Monday-Thursday 9:00 am - 8:00 pm, Friday 9:00 am - 3:00 pm Located in the Psychology Building, Room 126 901.678.2147 HR – Services for Faculty and Staff Blue Cross Blue Shield (BCBS): 1.800.558.6213 CIGNA: 1.800.244.6224 Behavior Change Counseling For Faculty or Staff not covered through UofM for health care Utilize the free services of the Employee Assistance Program (EAP through State of Tennessee: 1.855.Here4TN (1.855.437.3486), or by going online to . OFF CAMPUS TARGIT Study – a research study for smokers ready to quit Must be between 18-35 Eligible participants will receive free nicotine patches and smoking cessation counseling. For more information call 901.448.STOP (448.7867) or targitstudy.org Church Health Center – Commit to Quit Smoking cessation group Meets for 1 hour a week for 6 weeks To sign up call 901.259.4673 Free for Members of the Church Health Center, $60 for non-members ONLINE OR PHONE iCanQuit Personalized tobacco cessation program Can be done online or over the phone Free for TN residents. Receive a tobacco quit kit, work with a coach, get support for cravings Call 1.800.784.8669 or American Cancer Society Online resources to help with quitting smoking Examples of resources include Getting help with tobacco cravings Compare various quit methods Healthways Quitnet, Inc. Free Interactive Smokefree.gov Midday Moves Take a break from your day and join in a physical activity with Midday Moves! Let's Talk Health A production of the Department of Communication &amp; the Loewenberg School of Nursing Healthier TN Workplace Learn more about the Healthier Tennessee initiative. Limited-Use Tobacco Policy The limited-use tobacco policy of the University of Memphis Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .