#http://www.memphis.edu/advising/Documents/undegree_manual_18advx.pdf
Updated July 30, 2013 page 1 UMdegree Training Manual Updated July 30, 2013 page 2 UMdegree Training Manual Version 1. 8 .1 (Advisors) ADVX Table of Contents Background Information Login Navigational Tools How to Find Students Worksheet Look Ahead What if Planner Petitions Notes GPA Calc ulators Updated July 30, 2013 page 3 UMdegree Background Purpose of the course : Introduce academic advisors to UMdegree at The University of Memphis Objectives: At the end of the training session, advisors should be able to: 1. find students using the UMdegree search methods 2. view and understand the components of a student UMdegree worksheet and its requirements 3. view and understand a UMdegree worksheet 4. be introduced to the UMdegree Planner 5. begin using UMdegree to submit requests for petitions 6. see and practice the functionality of notes in UMdegree 7. review GPA calculators delivered with UMdegree Updated July 30, 2013 page 4 UMdegree Login Step 1) Login in to myMemphis Step 2) Click on Advisor (or Faculty) Tab Step 3) Find the UMdegree channel Step 4) Click on the UMde gree logo Step 5) If you are not logged in by SSO, l ogin using your myMemphis/email username and password Updated July 30, 2013 page 5 UMdegree Navigational Tools Welcome to UMdegree This is the first page you will see once you login to UMdegree. Below are some navigational tools to util ize while in UMdegree Frequently asked questions pertaining to UMdegree Help file for Find Students (written with the student in mind, but also helpful for the Advisor) Allows the user to print the current page Logs user out of UMdegree Updated July 30, 2013 page 6 Under those navigational tools lies the Audit Bar The Audit Bar allows you to search for students by name or UID. Once student is located, it will also give general information of the student in the blocks adjacent to the Audit Bar Terms Allows for the location of students with the use of First & Last Name (see more in the section The Find Tool) The UID (must follow UXXXXXXXX format and cannot be the student social) ntered here. This box will automatically populate once either the student ID is entered or the student is selected from the Find Icon option switch between primary and secondary degree Updated July 30, 2013 page 7 UMdegree How to Find Students By student ID: As stated previously, it must be the UID ( NOT the social security number ) following the U######## By student name: If you do not know the students ID, the student can still be found using the Find Tool. Using the Find Tool will take you to a different menu on a different page. The Find Tool The Find Tool provides advisors with some additional ability to find individual students and groups of student based on search criteria. Each item has a pull down menu that lists the options for that item. Combine criteria to narrow your search. Step 1) Click Find icon Step 2) The Find S tudents box will appear Updated July 30, 2013 page 8 Step 3) Students can be searched by either the first or last name (see example) Click the search bar to begin the search. Step 4) In the lower box labeled Students Found, a list of students will appear with the checks in the boxes next to their names. Unselect the student that you are not interested in and hit OK . Updated July 30, 2013 page 9 Step 5) What shoul d appear next is the Students UMdegree Worksheet UMdegree Worksheet The worksheet is divided into blocks . Each block has a title and a check box in the header and when all requirements in that block are met, the box is checked with a green check mark. The block headers have different information based on the block type. All the student worksheets begin with a student information section followed by a Degr ee Progress bar . Student Information Section Contains basic student information such a s UID, the assigned advisor, major , minor, and concentration. Progress Bar Displays the percenta progress Degree Block hyperlinked to the section for that requirement/block until the requirement is complete. Requirement Block may include Major Block contains all the requirements for th Will read undecided if a major has not been declared Updated July 30, 2013 page 10 General Education Block Contains all the general education courses that the student has or has not completed for graduation College Requirements Block Requirements specif Upper Division Block (for some degree programs) Required Upper Division hours grouped together. Other Blocks will display in certain degree program depending on the requirements for that program Fal lthrough courses Block Contains courses completed but not currently being used to fulfill requirements. This is the place where you will find electives or courses that may need to be used as substitutions, but are not yet documented. Insufficient Courses Block Contains courses that carry unsuccessful grades (F, W, sometimes D) and first (second, third) attempts of repeated courses. In - progress Contains course that the student is currently taking or is registered for in a future term. See the term to dif ferentiate. Legend Contains the symbols and definitions used for the UMdegree worksheet Complete Complete except for classes in - progress (T) Transfer Class Not Complete Nearly complete - see advisor @ Any course number Disclaimer Statement of the intended use of the UMdegree Worksheet. This will be edited to reflect Updated July 30, 2013 page 11 UMdegree Look Ahead Allows you to enter in future course and view a student worksheet with those courses applied. Look Ahead may also be used in a What If scenario (see What If Tab). To see an audit SHOWING COURSES FOR WHICH the student PLANS TO REGISTER IN FUTURE TERMS, use the form to enter the Subject code and Number of each anticipated course. On ce you have created your list of courses, click on the Process New button. Look ahead scenarios are not saved. Updated July 30, 2013 page 12 UMdegree What if The What if Tab allows you to create scenarios based upon what if you changed your major or degree path. Step 1) Select a Degree Step 2) Select an Academic Year (catalog) Step 3) Select a Major (major choice is narrowed depending on choice of degree above) Step 4) Select a College (this is required for the What If to process correctly) Step 4) Other criteria such as Minor, Concentration can be added under the Choose Your Different Areas of Study section Step 5) Future courses related to this new major can also be added to the scenario under Choose Your Future Classes Step 6) Click Process What - If button (at top) What you will see next is the What If scenario for that student. It will look just like that student work sheet except this worksheet is directed towards the new major requirements for that student. The What - If worksh eet will not save in the History. Updated July 30, 2013 page 13 Updated July 30, 2013 page 14 UMdegree Planner Tab (labeled Student Educational Planner) where courses the student needs to take in the future can be compile d to create a program/degree completion plan. Using the UMdegree Planner with Students Student/Advisor may also type courses into the planner. The required format is: CoursePrefix space CourseNumber Example ENGL 1010 ENGL1010 will not work. To plan a category (Humanities; Upper Division) rather than a specific course prefix and number (ENGL 1010) enter a hyphen and then a space ( - space) before the name of the category. Updated July 30, 2013 page 15 Example - humanities When you save, UMdegree will automatically convert all alpha characters to Upper Case. - HUMANITIES You may plan for up to 12 semesters in a single plan. Notes may be entered as reminders/tasks in the Notes Boxes. Saving the Plan Enter a name (Description) for the plan before saving. Select the appropriate catalog (Academic Year) for this student/plan. Do not lock the plan before saving. Check all terms in the plan (or use the Check All Terms button on the bot tom of the Student Education Planner ). Planner. Multiple plans are allowed, but must be named differently. Multiple plans will appear in the Planner pull down menu at the top left of the page. Locking the Plan Only the advisor may lock (unlock) a plan. Only one plan may be active. If there are multiple plans, you will be asked to decide which one is active. Then lock and save again. What if Options in the Planner - There is a What If Option that will allow you to perform the What if scenario creation under the planner section. The Worksheet generated with What If in the Planner tab will show planned courses (courses on the saved plan) in the what if scenario. Click Show What If Options on the Worksheet side Select the What if Progra m (see What if section for details) Click Use What If Scenario Click Process New on the Student Educational Planner side (bottom) Click Hide What if Options Courses from the Planner will show in the What if Scenario Plans may also be printed by using th e print link at the upper right of the planner block. Updated July 30, 2013 page 16 UMdegree Planner Batch Templates Import Summer2013 Templates have been created from the four year plans in the Undergraduate Catalog. These plans will ab when the student attends New Student make changes to the plan in several ways: 1. Change the saved plan by deleting one plan and loading another 2. Load in a pre defined plan after deleting a saved plan 3. Save more than one plan - If no saved plan already exists - If a saved plan is already in place Change the saved plan by deleting one plan and loading another There are instances in which the student is not interested in the major into which he/she was admitted by the time the student attend s New Student Orienta t i on. In this case, the advisor may make a change Step 1. Open UMdegree and navigate to the student by entering the U number and pressing enter on your k eyboard . Step 2. Click on the Planner tab . You will be asked to confirm and receive confirmation that you have deleted. Updated July 30, 2013 page 17 Load in a pre - defined plan after deleting a save d plan - Notice that the plan is Active by default. Step 1. Click on Load in a pre - defined plan . Updated July 30, 2013 page 18 Step 2. Step 3. Use the Major pull down menu to find the program you want . Hint: Pre - Biology is with Biology. Pre - Chemistry is with Chemistry. Otherwise, the major will be listed as you expect. Report variations of this truth to kthurmnd@memphis.edu . Step 4 . . This plan is active, but must be SAVED. Updated July 30, 2013 page 19 Step 5 . Save the plan by clicking Save Plan. Save more than one plan Some students will require more than one plan in the UMdegree plan ner tab for various reasons. In this case the Load in a Pre - defined Plan steps may be used to create multiple plans. If no saved plan already exists: Step 1. Click on Load in a pre - defined plan . Updated July 30, 2013 page 20 Step 2. Step 3. Use the Major pull down menu to find the program you want . Hint: Pre Biology is with Biology. Pre - Chemistry is with Chemistry. Otherwise, the major will be listed as you expect. Report variations of this truth to kthurmnd@memphis.edu . Step 4 Cho o . Notice that the plan is Active by default. This plan is active, but must be SAVED. Step 5 Save the plan by clicking Save Plan. Step 6. Co If a saved plan is already in place: Decide ahead of time which plan will be active. Only one plan can be active, but there may be more than one saved plan. When adding a second plan, fo - making sure that the right plan is identified as active on the front end. The plan you identify as active will be the one that appears when the UMdegree Planner tab is opened. If you attempt to create a second active plan, your first plan will disappear. Step 1. Pull down and click on Add a new plan and click Load. Step 2. Click on Load in a pre - defined plan Step 2. Step 4. Use the Major pull down menu to find the program you want Hint: Pre - Biology is with Biology. Pre - Chemistry is with Chemistry. Otherwise, the major will be listed as you expect. Report variations of this truth to kthurmnd@memphis.edu Step 5 Chose the program you w Notice that the plan is Active by default. This plan can be active only if all other saved plans are inactive. In any event it must be SAVED. Step 5 Save the plan by clicking Save Plan. Updated July 30, 2013 page 21 If you need additional assistance, please call Karen Thurmond at 901 - 678 - 2588 or contact by email at kthurmnd@memphis.edu Updated July 30, 2013 page 22 UMdegree Petitions The Petitions tab allows users to enter requests for exceptions. A petition can be a request to have a particular requirement modified or waived for a particular student. To create a petition, first select the student for whom you wish to enter a petition and then click the Petitions tab. This will bring up the petition screen shown below. The petition screen shows all petitions that have been entered on the student's behalf. The View Petitions screen is shown by default whenever the petition tab is se lected. Petitions are grouped according to their status. Petitions can either be waiting for approval, approved, applied as exceptions or rejected. All new petitions have a default status of waiting for approval when first created. Once a petition is cre ated, it can be acted upon by the appropriate approver. Updated July 30, 2013 page 2 3 To create a new petition, click the Add Petition button. This will bring up a text box where you can enter the text for the petition. Please provide the following information with your petition: 1. P refix, number, and name of course that would normally satisfy the requirement 2. Prefix, number, name, and (if transfer course) institution where taken of the course the substitution course 3. gram. Remember that you cannot make a petition on behalf of a student until you have accessed the student in UMdegree. Think of the petition entry more like an email than a form to fill out. Sometimes more information will help the approver. Remember also that the petition may have to be reviewed by a series of approvers. Once you have entered the text for the petition, click the Submit Petition button to save the petition to the database. A message will appear telling you your petition was added successfully. Updated July 30, 2013 page 24 To add another petition, click the Add Petition button agai n and repeat the process. To modify a petition, click the Modify Petition button. Only petitions with a status of Waiting Approval may be modified. A text window will open up for those petitions created by you. You will not be able to modify petitions cr eated by others. To modify a petition, click in the text window and add or delete text. Click the Save button to the left of the petition to save your changes. When a new petition is saved it is routed to a queue for approval. Updated July 30, 2013 page 25 To delete a petitio n, click the Delete Petition button. Only petitions created by you can be deleted by you. Click the Delete button to the left of the petition to remove it from the database . Petitions that have been approved, applied as exceptions or rejected cannot be de leted. Petitions will be approved/applied in a random timeframe , but usually within 48 hours . Please make a record of the students for whom you make petitions so you can go back to the petitions tab or the student worksheet to view the decision. There is no system generated response to petitions. Updated July 30, 2013 page 26 UMdegree Notes The Notes tab allows UMdegree users to document academic advising on the UMdegree records. The notes can be used for internal use only or they can be made available to the student through UMdegree on the Web. Notes made available to the student appear in w orksheets in a Notes section at the bottom of the report. To access the Notes screen, click on the Notes tab. The section opens to a view of the notes. You have the option of adding notes or viewing notes. There are predefined notes available to captu re the advising session. An option to make the comment NOT AVAILABLE to students exists. In UMdegree, all notes are public by default. The option to make a note NOT AVAILABLE to the student is provided . Please use discretion when making notes. Notes are part of the student educational record. Updated July 30, 2013 page 27 Click on the Add a Note button. Use the p re - defined comment or add a comment or use a combination of both. Click Save Note . Notes made available to the student appear at the bottom of the worksheet. Click process new to view these new notes. Updated July 30, 2013 page 28 You can modify or delete notes in a manner simi lar to the process for modifying and deleting petitions. Updated July 30, 2013 page 29 UMdegree GPA Calculators Graduation Calculator : The current GPA defaults. Enter the credits required and credits remaining. Click the Calculate button. The purpose of the Graduation Calculator is to give the student a general view of what average GPA they will need to achieve over their final "X" credits in order to achieve their desired GPA. In some cases, this calculator will be useful to i nform the student that the desired GPA is not possible to achieve (considering the number of credits remaining). Updated July 30, 2013 page 30 In short, this calculator helps students to set long - term general goals. Term Calculator : Current GPA and credits completed to date default. The current classes will default. Enter the credits if necessary and enter the projected grades. (You can also add a course the student might be considering but for which they Click the Calculate button. You can change th e classes and the grades at any time and recalculate. The term calculator can be used for goal - setting as well as mapping paths to avoid probation, achieve honors, etc. Updated July 30, 2013 page 31 Advice Calculator Students should enter their desired GPA and click Calculate . Advic e will be displayed depending on the desired GPA and the chances or unrealistic chances of meeting that goal. Note: Although the GPA and hours are already plugged in, these fields can be revised. One example Another example of advice (after having a ltered the number of credits):