#http://www.memphis.edu/anthropology/people/robert-connolly.php
Robert Connolly - Department of Anthropology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Student Life Resources People in the Department of Anthropology Faculty &amp; Staff Emeriti Faculty Faculty in Other Departments Part-time Instructors Student Directory Home Department of Anthropology People Robert Connolly Dr. Robert Connolly Associate Professor, Director CH Nash Museum at Chucalissa Phone 901.678.3331 Email rcnnolly@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2069 Office 300B Manning Hall, Memphis, TN 38152 Office Hours Call for Hours CV Website About Dr. Connolly Dr. Connolly received his PhD from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1996. Prior to coming to The University of Memphis, he conducted long-term research projects at the Hopewell Fort Ancient hilltop enclosure in southwest Ohio and at the Poverty Point earthwork complex in northeast Louisiana. At both sites he specialized in the analysis of previously excavated but unreported museum collections and their associated records as a to limit the need for modern field excavations in addressing research questions. Dr. Connolly serves on the Advisory Board of the Museum Studies Graduate Certificate Program at the University of Memphis. In conjunction with his role as Director of the C.H. Nash Museum at Chucalissa , he facilitates and supervises undergraduate and graduate internships at Chucalissa and area museums. He is the Chairperson of the Public Education Committee at the Society for American Archaeology and is on the Small Museum Board of the American Association of State and Local History . Connolly blogs at Archaeology, Museums &amp; Outreach . Expertise and Interests Museum studies; applied archaeology; community service learning; Native American cultures of the Eastern Woodlands from 2000 B.C. to the present; New World prehistoric monumental architecture Research Projects Dr. Connolly’s current research is at the intersection of Museum Studies and Applied Archaeology. In Memphis, he works collaboratively with community partners to develop cultural heritage programs. Most recently he has worked to implement a model where the C.H. Nash Museum at Chucalissa serves as a hub for community service and community service learning projects in Southwest Memphis. He also collaborates with Proyecto de Investigación Arqueológico Regional Ancash on developing a sustainable eco-tourism and cultural heritage base in the Andean village at Hualcayán. Selected Publications 2014 Connolly, Robert P. and Ana M. Rea. Making African American History Relevant through Co-Creation and Community Service Learning. In Interpreting African American History and Culture edited by Max Balgooy. Rowman and Littlefield Publishers. 2012 Connolly, Robert P., Samantha Gibbs, and Mallory Bador. The C.H. Nash Museum at Chucalissa Community Engagement at an Archaeological Site. Museums &amp; Social Issues 7(2): 227–243. 2012 Connolly, Robert P. Scratching the Surface: Resolving the "Mystery" of Poverty Point. Louisiana Archaeology 35: 79-115. 2011 Connolly, Robert P. and Natalye Tate. Volunteers as Mission. Collections 7(3). Alta Mira Press. 2011 Connolly, Robert P. Moving from Actors to Directors: Evolving Voices of Native Americans in Museum Presentations. Practicing Anthropology 33(2). 2010 Connolly, Robert P. and Keri V. Brondo. Incarnate Theology and the Social Gospel: Exploring the Mississippi Model of Episcopal Medical Missions to Panama. In Developing Community/Development People: Intersections of Faith and Development in Local-Global Contexts , Keri Vacanti Brondo and Tara Hefferan’s (eds.). NAPA Bulletin. 1998 Connolly, Robert P. The Architectural Grammar of Middle Woodland Hilltop Enclosures: Fort Ancient as a Case Study. In Ancient Earthen Enclosures of the Eastern Woodlands , Lynne Sullivan and Robert Mainfort (eds.). University Press of Florida, Gainesville. Selected Awards 2013 Sponsor of the Year, AmeriCorps NCCC, Southern Region 2012 New Sponsor of the Year, AmeriCorps NCCC, Southern Region 2011 Green Fee Allocation Grant Award, University of Memphis ($12,750) 2010 – 13 Museum Assessment Program, Community, Collections, and Institutional Components, American Alliance of Museums 2010 Travel Enrichment Fund Award, College of Arts and Sciences, University of Memphis ($500) 2009-2010 Exhibiting African American Cultural Heritage in Southwest Memphis, Strengthening Communities Grant ($18,000) (co-PI with Dedra Macklin, Westwood Indian Hill Neighborhood Development) Courses Native People of North America (ANTH 4302/6302) Applied Archaeology and Museums (ANTH 4680/6680) Museum Practices (ANTH/ARTH 7661) People in the Department of Anthropology Faculty &amp; Staff Emeriti Faculty Faculty in Other Departments Part-time Instructors Student Directory Undergrads: Declare Anthropology your major! Join the Graduate Program Learn about applied and engaged anthropology! News and Events Find out what's happening in the Department of Anthropology Contact Us Main office location and numbers, undergraduate and graduate advising Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .