#http://www.memphis.edu/umtech/student_sucess/integrity.php
Academic Integrity - umTech - Information Technology Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. umTech - Information Technology Services Service Support Teaching Smart Tech Students Solutions Student Success Academic Integrity eCourseware Clickers Media Services Qualtrics Hardware/Software Web Conferencing Additional Services Home umTech - Information Technology Services Student Success Academic Integrity Keeping integrity high. The University of Memphis takes cheating and inappropriate academic conduct very seriously. Our policy on academic integrity is outlined in the Student Code of Rights and Responsibilities . In order to understand what academic misconduct means at the University, you should be familiar with the University's definitions from the Office of Student Conduct. To help in the pursuit of academic integrity, two products have been made available to instructors: Turnitin and Respondus LockDown Browser. Turnitin A web-based plagiarism-detection service that allows students to submit papers to check for originality. Turnitin can be used as a deterrent, but also as an educational tool to teach students how to work with sources and to improve paraphrasing and quoting skills. After submission, an Originality Report is generated and the instructor can choose to share this with the student. The repository to which papers are compared for originality currently consists of three primary databases . Respondus LockDown Browser A custom browser that locks down the testing environment in eCourseware. When students use LockDown Browser to access a quiz, they are unable to print, copy, go to another URL, access other applications, or close a quiz until it is submitted for grading. Tests created for use with LockDown Browser cannot be accessed with standard browsers either. LockDown Browser works much like a standard browser, but some options have been removed or work differently . Where Do I Begin? If a class will be using either product, the instructor will note this within the syllabus and/or discuss it in class. Once an assignment or quiz has been noted as using Turnitin or the LockDown Browser, continue to the "Next Steps" section to ensure familiarity with the product and how to use it. Next Steps Turnitin If a class uses eCourseware, the chance is good that assignments will be submitted using the Dropbox feature within the class. If an instructor is not using eCourseware, the Student Quick Start Guide goes through the steps of submitting the first paper. Respondus LockDown Browser The LockDown Browser will only be used for assessments taken within eCourseware. Some instructors choose to use the browser, others do not; instructors will tell their class if it will be used. Students will install the browser by clicking on the link within their eCourseware course. Once it has been installed, an icon will be available on your desktop. This icon will allow access to elearn.memphis.edu through the LockDown Browser but no other programs. View the General installation instructions from Respondus. You will only need to download the browser once per semester. NOTE: Be sure to save your answers frequently in case you experience trouble. FAQs UofM commonly asked questions and answers on Turnitin and Respondus Lockdown Browser can be found in AskTOM Additional Information If you need further assistance, the umTech Service Desk is available 24/7 at 901.678.8888. Student Success Academic Integrity eCourseware Clickers Media Services Qualtrics Hardware/Software Web Conferencing Additional Services Let Us Help! Call 901.678.8888. Available Now. Chat Live Monday - Friday 8:00 am - 7:00 pm CDT Ask Tom Search this collection of questions and answers to find solutions to a variety of technical problems. New Service Desk System Learn more about the new service support system. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/10/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .