#http://umwa.memphis.edu/umpolicies////12e0302.html
Student Employment THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS POLICY MANUAL SUBJECT: Student Employment POLICY NO.: 1:2E:03:02 DATED: November 2, 1988 SUPERSEDES POLICY NO.: 1:2E:O3:02 DATED: July 1, 1974 Introduction The University maintains a student employment component within the Department of Student Aid - Division of Student Educational Services. The Department of Student Aid has the responsibility for developing, implementing and coordinating policies and procedures relative to the Regular University Employment Program and the Federal College Work-Study Program. For purposes of definition, a student employee is any person accepted for enrollment or in a vacation period as a full-time student or any person enrolled for six or more hours exclusive of full-time University Employees and persons on graduate or teaching assistantships. The University of Memphis is an equal opportunity/affirmative action University. It is committed to the education of a non-racially identifiable student body. General Employment Policies 1. All student employees will be paid on an hourly bi-weekly basis. 2. All students employed must receive final approval by the Student Employment Office prior to actual employment. 3. Student employees may not work more than 17.0 hours per week without prior written approval form the Student Employment Office. 4. Students may not be employed simultaneously on the College Work-Study Program and the Regular Employment Program. 5. Students may not be transferred from one employment program to another without first receiving written approval from the Student Employment Office. 6. Students approved for and receiving assistance on Title IV Federal Program of assistance cannot be approved for earnings greater than their determined financial need. 7. Pay rates for students will be compatible with the federal minimum standard wage and/or University standard wage. As of July 1, 1986, student wages should have reflected: A. Level 1 : For entry level employment, $3.60 per hour. B. Level 11 : After a student has completed 2 semesters of employment in the same department and upon departmental request, $3.75 per hour. C. Level 111 : Wage determined by the department. Request for Level 111 wages must be accompanied by a memo including the student's job title, job description, and justification for the wage. 8. Students will be paid at the minimum hourly rates. Request for exceptions to the above three levels must be submitted in writing by the department chairperson and must be approved by the Student Employment Office. 9. Any student who withdraws, graduates, drops below full-time academic status, or is suspended from the University, will be terminated from employment effective the date of the action and cannot be paid from student employment funds for work performed after the effective date of the termination. 10. Claims of students for injuries sustained while employed by The University of Memphis should be submitted to the State Board of Claims. College Work-Study Employment Policies 1. Students (undergraduate/graduate) employed on the College Work-Study Program during the academic year must enroll for and maintain minimum of 12 semester hours (Fall/Spring) and 9 hours (Fall/Spring) respectively; 6 hours for Summer enrollment. 2. Students employed on the College Work-Study Program during the summer must be in a state of enrollment other than "unclassified" (undergraduates) and "conditional" (graduates). Transfer students and high school graduates must be accepted as regular undergraduate/ regular undergraduate transfer to be employed on the College Work- Study Program. 3. Students on the College Work-Study Program cannot be employed more than 17.0 hours per week during periods of full-time enrollment nor more than 37.5 per week during periods of non-enrollment. (i.e. vacation periods: Christmas, spring break, etc.) 4. For on-campus employment, eighty (80) percent of the gross wages of student will be paid from the College Work-Study fund. 5. To be eligible for the College Work-Study Program, students must submit a Financial Aid Application, an approved need analysis packet (ACT, CSS, etc.) and other supporting documents, prior to each academic year of summer period. 6. Once a student earns his/her maximum approved level of earnings for a semester, academic year or summer period, he/she must be terminated. Regular Employment Program 1. Department or activity chairperson will be responsible for one-hundred (100) percent of the gross wages for student employed on the Regular Student Employment Program. 2. Students on graduate assistantships and fellowships applying for regular employment must receive written approval from the Dean of the Graduate School prior to actual employment. The Vice Provost of Student Educational Services will be responsible for administering this policy.