#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/engr/enth.php
Engineering Technology - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Engineering Technology Engineering Technology SCOTT C. SOUTHALL, MS Chair Room 203 Technology Building 901.678.3980 CARL R. WILLIAMS, MS, MBA Coordinator of Graduate Studies 901.678.2225 E-Mail: crwillia@memphis.edu I. The Department of Engineering Technology offers a Master of Science degree in Engineering Technology. Individual emphasis can be developed in the curriculum areas of Computer, Electronics, or Manufacturing. The department also offers a graduate certificate in Applied Lean Leadership. Program objectives for the MS are: (1) ability to apply advanced knowledge of mathematics, physical sciences, and engineering principles to the solution of practical engineering problems; (2) meet or exceed the needs and expectations of public and private sector employers for MS graduates; and (3) preparation to pursue additional advanced studies if so desired. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) and the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MS Degree Program A. Program Admissions Admission requirements of the College. B. Program Prerequisites Applicants must have a bachelor's degree, preferably in an appropriate area of Engineering or Engineering Technology. However, a bachelor's degree in an analytical field with professional experience in a related area is also acceptable. Candidates with deficiencies in their undergraduate work may be required to pass appropriate undergraduate courses with a C or better to supplement their body of knowledge. Basic competencies are reflected as prerequisites for courses, but may be waived with appropriate professional experience. All programs emphasize technical and analytical aspects that require strong command of math and science. Key competencies that are needed depend on the student's academic goals and possible focus areas. Examples include: Computer Engineering Technology courses expect students to already have competency in modern programming as well as basic electronics. Deficiencies may require additional preparation and course work. Modern programming using Java can be taken as a graduate course, TECH 6262, which can count toward the MS degree requirements. Basic electronics, however, may require preparation that includes completion of undergraduate course work that cannot be applied toward the MS semester hour requirement. Similarly, a focus in Electronics Engineering Technology will require familiarity with electronics prior to enrollment in graduate classes. Manufacturing Engineering Technology graduate courses expect a familiarity with industrial practices and operations. Course prerequisites are important, but may be fulfilled through experience or completion of appropriate 6000 level courses which may be applied to the MS semester hour requirement. No more than 9 semester hours of 6000 level course work can be applied toward the MS degree semester-hour requirement. C. Program Requirements Non-thesis (Project) option: A minimum of 33 semester hours. Students selecting the non-thesis option must complete TECH 7991, Projects I. Projects require a proposal before permits can be issued. Proposals are to provide insight into the scope, depth, and extent of work and how the project relates to coursework that has been completed. Permits must be provided by a graduate faculty member for a section they agree to administer. Thesis option: A minimum of 30 semester hours plus a minimum of 6 semester hours of thesis. Students must complete TECH 7996, Thesis, for six semester hours credit. NOTE: Students electing to write a thesis should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. Each student must complete the following core courses: Statistics: TECH 7015 or PRST 7600 Technical writing: TECH 7020 or ENGL 7805 or ENGL 7808 Leadership: TECH 7105 or METH 6381. A minimum of 21 semester hours must be completed from graduate level courses in the Department of Engineering Technology. Courses taken in other colleges/departments, including those for core courses, cannot apply toward the specified minimum. Students may elect to establish an area of emphasis, but this is optional. Courses in each of the three traditional emphasis areas include courses from more than one focal area. Suggested courses in each of the emphasis areas include but are not limited to: Computer: TECH 6241, 6242, 6262, 6263, 6272, 6281, 7263, 7273, 7283, 7801, 7831, 7841. Electronics: TECH 6281, 6823, 7263, 7273, 7801, 7822, 7831, 7841. Manufacturing: TECH 6381, 6460, 6464, 6466, 6472, 6474, 6476, 7401, 7402, 7404, 7406, 7408, 7414, 7801, 7822. Students are encouraged to develop a plan that includes courses outside the department for a more cross-functional academic experience. While prior permission is required, electives can be selected from other departments in Herff College of Engineering and the Fogelman College of Business and Economics or the Department of Computer Science. Acceptable courses depend upon student-selected emphasis area as well as relevance to the student's academic and professional interest. Examples include the following courses by areas of emphasis: Computer Engineering Technology: COMP 6262, Programming Unix MIS 7605, Business Data Base Management COMP 7120, Cryptography/Data Security COMP 7125, Computer Forensics COMP 7150 Method/Comp Applications Manufacturing Engineering Technology ACCT 7110, Accounting for Decision Making SCMS 7080, Principles of Production and Operations SCMS 7310, Seminar in Production Operations Management No more than 9 semester hours of 6000-level courses will count toward the degree. Students cannot receive credit towards graduation for a 6000 level course if they had completed the 4000 cognate of that same course. E.g.: You cannot use TECH 6381 Supervision if you have already completed TECH 4381. Candidates for the degree must average a 3.0 in all Technology courses. Candidates for the degree must pass a comprehensive examination. Comprehensive examinations may be taken by students in good standing during the term in which core and concentration course work are completed. Exams are not given for TECH 7991, 7992, or 7993. The comprehensive written examination will be administered Monday of the tenth week of classes during the fall and spring semesters. A follow-up oral examination is optional with the examining committee. Graduate assistantships will not be awarded to students enrolled in TECH 7993, Internship, unless the combined hours of student work is fewer than 20 hours per week. III. Graduate Certificate in Applied Lean Leadership A. Program Admission Students must have completed a bachelor's degree with a cumulate grade point average of at least 2.5 and apply for admission to the Graduate School with the classification of "Graduate Certificate." To apply students must submit: Transcripts of undergraduate degree program and any prior graduate study to Graduate Admissions; A letter describing their intent to pursue the certificate and its relevance to their career goals to the Graduate Coordinator for the Department of Engineering Technology; When seeking to waive a course prerequisite, two professional letters of recommendation describing pertinent work experience must be sent to the Graduate Coordinator for the Department of Engineering Technology. B. Program Requirements Completion of 12 semester hours distributed as follows: Required courses: Total 6 credits TECH 7105, Project Planning and Scheduling TECH 7401*, Advanced Lean Concepts and Practice *Course prerequisites will be waived for students who have demonstrated relevant work experience Electives: 6 credit hours chosen from the following: TECH 7402*, Adv Quality Control TECH 7404*, World-Class Manufacturing TECH 7406*, Materials Handling and Automation TECH 7408, Production Processes TECH 7414*, Manufacturing Strategy and System Design *Course prerequisites will be waived for students who have demonstrated relevant work experience Students may enroll in up to two electives from the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. Selection of the two business electives must be approved by the student's academic advisor and the Associate Dean of the Fogelman College. A maximum of 9 credit hours of the certificate program may be shared with a master's program. Graduation: Students must file and "Apply to Graduate" with the Graduate School at the beginning of the semester in which they will complete their 12-semester-hour requirement. A minimum grade of "B" in each course applicable to the certificate and a minimum overall GPA of 3.0 is required. Students must also submit a Candidacy Form to the Engineering Technology Graduate Coordinator in order to verify information and collect approvals and signatures required for the Graduate School. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .