#http://www.memphis.edu/efiles/kudos.php
Kudos - E-Files - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Arts &amp; Sciences E-Files Newsletter Headlines Announcements Kudos College Events Department Seminars Home E-Files Kudos Kudos Department of Biological Sciences Dr. Ramin Homayouni has received a new award from the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation to continue his project entitled "System Dynamic Modeling of Child Growth and Development." Dr. Amy Abell who has been awarded a five year NIH RO1 grant entitled "Coordinate Regulation By MAP3K4 of Epigenetic Modifiers Controlling EMT". Dr. Ramin Homayouni is a co-investigator on this grant. Department of Computer Science Prof. Santosh Kumar and alumnus Dr. Sidney D'Mello were recently featured in two online news articles. MobiHealthNews published an article about Prof. Kumar's work on the ongoing Mobile Sensor Data to Knowledge (MD2K) initiative. The project's first year has focused on developing an open-source smartphone software platform to allow users to "collect, analyze, visualize, and interpret mobile sensor data for health." (full article) MedicalXpress's article focuses on the work of Dr. Sidney D'Mello, a U of M Ph.D. graduate who is now an Assistant Professor of Psychology and Computer Science and Engineering at Notre Dame. He and his team are developing software that determines when a person loses focus on a task and helps them regain that focus; they are hoping to apply it towards STEM education. (full article) Department of English We had a great time at The Pinch Literary Journal's new issue release party on Friday night! The party included readings by Emma Bolden and Nickalus Rupert , two of the fantastic writers featured in the new issue, as well as a silent auction with items such as tickets to see David Sedaris at the University of Memphis on October 29th. Thank you to The Pinch staff for hosting such a fantastic event, and to everyone who attended for their support! View pictures of the event! Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures Ralph Albanese's article, "Ruses et stratégies discursives dans L'Ecole des Maris," has appeared in Cahiers du Dix-septième : An Interdisciplinary Journal, XVI (2015), 35-47. Rita Pasqui and Valeria Coppeta led a group of 30 students to the Italian opera Pagliacci by Leoncavallo at the Germantown Performing Arts Center on October 9. The Spanish section has created a series of videos to showcase their offerings. Please watch them and share them widely: La Casa Hispana: Study Abroad Program: The Spanish section: Department of Political Science Three of our graduate students passed their oral comprehensive exams today. Our picture shows Shayla Sullivan with members of her graduate examination committee. Also passing their exams today were Ryan Mansour and Grant Monroe . Congratulations to all of them! Dr. Michael Sances has been selected as a recipient of the College of Arts and Sciences Travel Enrichment Grant. This grant will support his participation in the Annual Conference of the Southern Political Science Association in San Juan, Puerto Rico in January 2016. There he will present two papers "Attribution Errors in Federalist Systems: When Voters Punish the President for Local Tax Increases," and "Who Pays for Government? Descriptive Representation and Exploitative Revenue Sources," (co-authored with Hye Young You, Vanderbilt University). Department of Political Science alum Jillienne Haglund (M.A. '09) has been hired as a tenure-track Assistant Professor in the Political Science Department at the University of Kentucky. After receiving her M.A. from us in 2009, Jill got her Ph.D. from Florida State University in 2014. Last year she served as a Postdoctoral Research Associate at Washington University in St.Louis and this fall she started her new position at Kentucky. Jill published her book Violence Against Women and the Law with Paradigm Publishers this year. In addition, she co-authored "Disaggregating Torture Allegations: Introducing the Ill-Treatment and Torture (ITT) Country-Year Data," (published in International Studies Perspectives in 2013) and "Torture Allegations as Events Data: Introducing the Ill-Treatment and Torture (ITT) Specific Allegation Data," (published in the Journal of Peace Research in 2014). Both ISP and JPR are considered top journals in the field of international relations. Dr. Dursun Peksen's paper "Sanctions and Alternate Markets: How Preexisting Trade and Alliances Affect the Onset of Economic Coercion" (co-authored with Timothy Peterson) has been accepted at Political Research Quarterly. PRQ is one of the leading general journals of political science. Department of Sociology Congratulations to Dr. Melissa Bamford , her paper co-authored with John Reynolds titled "School Gender Culture and Student Subjective Well-Being" has been accepted for publication in the journal Sex Roles. Congratulations to Dr. Carol Rambo , her paper titled "Strange Accounts" has been accepted for publication in the Journal of Contemporary Ethnography. Congratulations to Dr. Junmin Wang , her paper titled "Taking off the "Red Hat" of Chinese Private Entrepreneurs: Institutional Dependents, Innovative Collaborators, and Political Opponents" has been accepted for publication by the Sociology of Development. Department News Find out about fascinating research, upcoming events, speaker presentations, awards and more. Check out the list of Department Newsletters, Social Media and Blogs from the College of Arts &amp; Sciences. Accolades Learn more about the exciting research, engaged scholarship and world-class faculty in the College of Arts and Sciences. College of Arts and Sciences E-Files is the online news source for the College of Arts and Sciences. Visit the college website for more information on programs and degrees. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/6/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .