#http://www.memphis.edu/reslife/resourses/studentemployment.php
Employment Oppertunities - Reslife - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Residence Life and Dining Services About Housing Dining News Resources ResNet Child Care Resources Employment Opportunities Maintenance Request Campus Cable TV Streaming Video Conference Housing Home Reslife Resources Employment Oppertunities Residence Life Student Employment Positions Welcome to the Residence Life Student Employment webpage. Listed below are some student employment positions available with Residence Life. Follow header links to online application form. Conference Assistant (CA) Conference Assistants are University of Memphis students selected as live-in staff in the residence halls used for Summer Conference Housing. Their primary responsibilities include staffing each front desk, checking guests in and out, familiarizing guests with university policies and procedures, and serving as resource persons. They are the front line staff of the Conference Housing operation. There is at least one Conference Assistant on duty every night in each hall in addition to the Conference Assistant available at the front desk. Desk Assistant (DA) Desk Assistants are an essential link in the security and communication channels of a hall. They cannot perform these tasks without consistent information and support from the hall staff. It is important for the desk worker to know who is "on duty" and their location at all times. Facility Assistant (FA) Changing light bulbs, and smoke detector batteries. Replacing window screens, moving furniture and other heavy items. Doing minor patchwork to walls/drywalls and /or painting students rooms and other public areas within the Residence Halls. Power-washing of the outside of the buildings, picking up supplies for various staff members, and some general maintenance. Other duties as assigned. Resident Advisor (RA ) Resident are selected on the basis of their leadership experience, residence in a hall, scholarship, and desire to help residents realize their opportunities for self – development through group living in the residence halls. You are responsible for a floor or apartment unit housing approximately 50 residents and are directly responsible to your Assistant Area Coordinator (AAC). ResTech Restechs are Information Technology support technicians assisting departmental LSPs. Some of their duties are configuring computers, multi-function printers, servers, network cameras, webpage development, programming, menu board systems, electronic key access systems; installing standard and special software on workstations and laptops; troubleshooting and/or repairing on-campus housing residents' laptops, computers, printers and mobile phones. Note: Students must maintain a 2.25 GPA to be considered for the Conference Assistant and Resident Advisor positions. Note: Students must maintain a 2.00 GPA to be considered for the Desk Assistant and Facility Assistant, and Restech positions. Resources Employment Opportunities Maintenance Request Campus Cable TV Streaming Video Conference Housing Apply for Housing Apply now and secure your place on campus Campus Living Join a Living Learning Community Housing Policy Make sure you know the rules Meet the Staff Who to know and where to go Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/12/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .