#http://www.memphis.edu/anthropology/people/michael-duke.php
Michael Duke - Department of Anthropology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Student Life Resources People in the Department of Anthropology Faculty &amp; Staff Emeriti Faculty Faculty in Other Departments Part-time Instructors Student Directory Home Department of Anthropology People Michael Duke Michael Duke Assistant Professor Phone 901.678.2080 Email m.duke@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2069 Office 319 Manning Hall, Memphis, TN 38152 Office Hours Call for Hours CV About Dr. Duke Michael Duke is a Social/Medical Anthropologist (University of Texas at Austin 1996) with over 20 years of experience carrying out social research focusing on the intersection of labor, substance abuse, migration, gender and masculinity, sexuality, and mental health, particularly among Latin American, Caribbean populations. He is also an internationally recognized expert on qualitative and mixed method research, particularly with hard-to-reach populations, and has written and lectured extensively on this topic. Prior to coming to the University of Memphis, Dr. Duke served as Principal Investigator or Co-Investigator on multiple studies, including an investigation of mental health treatment barriers for Puerto Rican adolescents and a large, National Institute of Health-funded study of heavy drinking and sexual risk among New England-based farmworkers. This was followed by an investigation on the physical and mental health effects of migration on a rural sending community in Mexico. He also served as Co-Investigator of a study on syringe sharing and HIV risk among injection drug users in China's Guangdong Province. Dr. Duke's subsequent research focused on heavy drinking and their associated problems among blue collar populations, specifically construction workers, restaurant workers, and military personnel. More recently, he served as Principal Investigator on two additional studies; one focusing on problem drinking and partner violence among farmworkers in San Diego County, CA, and the other on stress and alcohol use among day laborers. Dr. Duke joined the faculty of the University of Memphis in 2011. He is the founding member and Chair of the Anthropology and Mental Interest Group (AMHIG) of the Society for Medical Anthropology. Expertise and Interests Drug and alcohol use; gender and masculinity; labor; Latin American and Caribbean populations; mental health; Micronesian populations in the US; migration; research methods; sexual comportment; social theory. Research Projects Dr. Duke is currently engaged in several research projects. The first is a community-based participatory research study on the physical and mental health needs of Marshall Islanders residing in Northwest Arkansas. Additionally, he serves as a co-investigator for an NIH-funded study of mental health and alcohol and drug treatment barriers among post-deployment National Guard troops. He and his research team have also been involved in ongoing evaluation activities for the Family Safety Center, a Memphis-based organization that provides case management and service coordination for victims of intimate partner violence. Lastly, Dr. Duke has several projects in development focusing on the causes, correlates, and measurement of acculturative stress among immigrant populations, and occupational stress among low income workers. Selected Publications 2013 Duke, M.R., L. Bergmann, C.M. Cunradi, and G.M. Ames. Like Swallowing a Butcher Knife: Layoffs, Masculinity and Couple Conflict in the U.S. Construction Industry. Human Organization, 72 (4):293-301. 2011 Duke, M.R. Ethnicity, well being, and the organization of labor among shade tobacco workers. Medical Anthropology, 30 (4):409-424. 2011 Duke, M.R. and C.B. Cunradi. Measuring intimate partner violence among male and female farmworkers in San Diego County, CA. Cultural Diversity and Ethnic Minority Psychology,17 (1):59-67. 2010 Duke, M.R., G.M. Ames, and L. Bergmann. Competition and the limits of solidarity among unionized construction workers. Anthropology of Work Review, 31 (2):83-91. 2010 Duke, M.R., B. Bourdeau, and J.D. Hovey. Day laborers and occupational stress: Testing the Migrant Farmworker Stress Inventory with a Latino day laborer population. Cultural Diversity and Ethnic Minority Psychology, 16(2):166-22. 2009 Duke, M.R. and F.J. Gomez Carpenterio. The effects of problem drinking and sexual risk among Mexican migrant workers on their community of origin. Human Organization 68(3):328-339. Selected Awards 2013 Travel Enrichment Award, University of Memphis, College of Arts and Sciences 2006-2010 Professional Development Award, Pacific Institute for Research and Evaluation 2004-2006 Fogarty International Research Award, Migration, Alcohol, and HIV Risk in Rural Mexico (R03-AA015401). 2002-2003 Connecticut Health Foundation, Access to Mental Health Services for Youth of Puerto Rican Descent in Hartford, CT 2001-2005 National Institute of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, Drinking Behaviors of Migrant and Non-Migrant Farmworkers (1 R01 AA 12829-01). 2000-2001 Yale University Center for Interdisciplinary Research on AIDS Development Program , HIV Sex Risk Among Migrant Farmworkers . Courses Introduction to Cultural Anthropology (ANTH 1200) Anthropological Field Methods (ANTH 4010) Culture, Society, and Mental Health (ANTH 4993/6993) Migration and Health (ANTH 4995/6995) Medical Anthropology :Theory and Practice (ANTH 7511) Additional Resources For Pacific Islanders, Hopes and Troubles in Arkansas (NY Times) Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands The Mental Health Needs of Immigrants (American Psychological Association) National Day Laborer Organizing Network United Campus Workers- Communication Workers of America (UCW-CWA) People in the Department of Anthropology Faculty &amp; Staff Emeriti Faculty Faculty in Other Departments Part-time Instructors Student Directory Undergrads: Declare Anthropology your major! Join the Graduate Program Learn about applied and engaged anthropology! News and Events Find out what's happening in the Department of Anthropology Contact Us Main office location and numbers, undergraduate and graduate advising Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .