#http://www.memphis.edu/mscm/faculty/dsherrll.php
DANIEL SHERRELL - MSCM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Marketing &amp; Supply Chain Management Welcome Programs Students Faculty PhD Students Publications FCBE Welcome Programs Students Faculty MKTG Faculty SCM Faculty PhD Students Publications Home MSCM Faculty DANIEL SHERRELL DANIEL SHERRELL Professor, Department of Marketing &amp; Supply Chain Management Phone 901.678.4552 Email dsherrll@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.4051 Office FEC 150 Office Hours 11:05 - 1:00pm, T, TH; other times by appointment Website Biography Dan L. Sherrell is a professor in the Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management at The University of Memphis. Dr. Sherrell received his bachelor's degree in Marketing (1973) and his MBA (1974) from Auburn University and completed his Ph.D. in Marketing from the University of South Carolina in 1980. Upon graduation, Dr. Sherrell joined the faculty at Louisiana State University where he spent 15 years and attained the rank of professor. He joined the faculty of the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics at The University of Memphis in 1995 as professor of marketing and chair of the Department of Marketing. Dan also served as associate dean for administration in the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics from 1999 to 2003. Teaching areas of interest include: consumer behavior; marketing theory; structural equation modeling; and customer loyalty. His current teaching assignments are Marketing Theory at the Ph.D. level and Applied Consumer Behavior at the MBA level. Dr. Sherrell has published over 50 articles in refereed journals and national conference proceedings. His articles have appeared in the Journal of Consumer Research , Journal of Academy of Marketing Science , and Journal of Business Research . His service to the marketing discipline includes serving as President of the Southwestern Marketing Association and as Vice President for Membership in the Society of Marketing Advances. He has also served as a member of the editorial board for the Journal of Business Research . Dr. Sherrell has consulted with a variety of firms in the areas of customer satisfaction and quality benchmarking, as well as strategic marketing planning. His current interests in research and consulting focus on customer relationship management, the impact of information technology on marketing strategy, and word-of-mouth influence in online environments. Research Representative Publications: CJohn E. Cicala, Alan J. Bush, Daniel L. Sherrell, and George D. Deitz (2014), "Does Transparency Influence the Ethical Behavior of Salespeople?" Journal of Business Research , 67 (9), 1787-1795. Mohammad G. Nejad, Daniel L. Sherrell, and Emin Babakus (2014), "Influentials and Influence Mechanisms in New Product Diffusion: An Integrative Review," Journal of Marketing Theory and Practice , 22 (2), 185-207. Joel E. Collier, Daniel L. Sherrell, Emin Babakus, and Alisha Balkeney Horky (2014), "Understanding the Differences of Public, Private, and Self-Service Technology," Journal of Services Marketing , 28 (1), 60-70. Joel E. Collier and Daniel L. Sherrell (2010), Examining the Influence of Control and Convenience in a Self-Service Setting," Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science , 38 (4), 490-509. Teaching Dr. Sherrell currently teaches Theory Construction and Evaluation (MKTG 8217) at the Ph.D. level and Advanced Consumer Behavior (MKTG 7540) at the MBA level. He frequently teaches Multivariate Analysis for Business Research (SCMS 8540) and Advanced Research Methodology (MKTG 8930) at the Ph.D. level. Service Service to the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics: Dr. Sherrell currently serves on the following committees in the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics: Doctoral Programs and Research Sub-Council and the Assurance of Learning Oversight committee. Service to the Marketing Discipline: Dr. Sherrell is a past member of the editorial board of the Journal of Business Research . He serves as an ad hoc reviewer for The Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science and The Journal of Retailing . Welcome Programs Students Faculty MKTG Faculty SCM Faculty PhD Students Publications Majors &amp; Minors See how a MSCM degree can benefit you! MSCM Internship Program Want to gain “real world” work experience related to your academic studies? Look no further! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .