#http://www.memphis.edu/egypt/resources/onlinebiblio.php
List of Egyptology Books and Articles Online - Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology About Location Teaching Staff Research Exhibition Events Resources Resources Online Bibliographic Resource Color Tour of Egypt Timeline of Egypt Other Egypt Web Sites Site Map Home Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology Resources List of Egyptology Books and Articles Online Egyptology Books and Articles in PDF Online The world-wide-web is replete with links to Egyptological resources, and there are many pages of bibliography out there, of which the prime example is the Online Egyptological Bibliography . But as yet, none of the more systematic bibliographies are publishing links to the actual PDF files of books and articles which may be freely acquired online, although they may be collecting the URL references. This project attempts to go some way toward filling that gap. Click here for the full list. Notice: Bookmark this page, not the full list, as the file name may change. The list uses standard Egyptological abbreviations for books and journals. This project is a "work in progress", and is bound to contain errors and omissions. The document takes the form of one large HTML file with the data arranged by author; links to both the web page from which the file can be accessed and the PDF file for the document itself are given. Searching must be done using the Find function of your web browser. It may be possible to enhance this capability in the future, but much will depend on the reactions of internet users to this work. The data has been collected and arranged by Andrea Middleton, Brooke Garcia, and Robyn Price, Graduate Assistants in the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology, a unit of the Department of Art in the University of Memphis (Tennessee, USA). We have tried to seek out as many books and articles as possible on Egyptological subjects which are freely accessible to anyone without the need for privileged access. Thus we have searched sites such as the Internet Archive , the University of Heidelberg Library , the Oriental Institute , the Metropolitan Museum , the Giza Library , Ancient World Online (AWOL), and many more, as well as attempting to collect links noted in the pages of EEF ( Egyptologists' Electronic Forum ) News. Sites which require institutional access or a password are not included—thus journals on JSTOR have not been indexed. Nor have papers available on or (BIFAO) been included here. It is likely that some articles on JSTOR are duplicated elsewhere, and it is equally possible that some articles and books are available at more than one location. In the latter case, we have tried to give all the options. Please report comments, errors, omissions, etc. to nigel.strudwick @ memphis.edu. We hope this work is useful. Nigel Strudwick March 2015 Resources Online Bibliographic Resource Color Tour of Egypt Timeline of Egypt Other Egypt Web Sites Site Map Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .