#http://www.memphis.edu/ccfa/programs/choosing_major.php
Choosing a Major - CCFA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. College of Communication and Fine Arts About Programs News Events Alumni Donors Resources Academic Programs Undergraduate Studies Choosing a Major Plan My Degree Apply to Graduate Advising Graduate Studies Degrees Offered Advising Home CCFA Programs Choosing a Major Department/School Major Click Below for Major Requirements Concentration Within Major Degree Offered Architecture Architecture Interior Design NONE BFA Art Art Art Education Studio Arts Graphic Design Photography BFA Art History NONE BA Communication Communication Communication Studies Film and Video Production BA Journalism Journalism Advertising News Public Relations BA Music Music Composition Jazz and Studio Performance Jazz and Studio Composition/Arranging Music History Performance Music Education (Choral) (Instrumental) BM Music Industry Music Business Recording Technology BM Theatre &amp; Dance Theatre Design and Technical Production Musical Theatre Performance BFA Individual program requirements described in the University of Memphis 2014-2015 Undergraduate Catalog are subject to change. Please consult the college level advisor for changes that may occur before publication of the next issue of this Catalog. How do I choose a major that is right for me? Be aware of and use the University's resources including: — Your Academic Counselor — Career Counseling Center, located at 214 Wilder Tower — CareerBeam — List of Majors — Four-year degree plans Choosing a rewarding major means matching your interests with your talents and skills. A few things to consider: — What are your strengths and challenges? — What kind of activities do you enjoy most? — How would you describe your personality style or your main personality characteristics? — What subjects do you enjoy and in which do you earn good grades? — Think about people you have met whose work seemed interesting to you? — Explore the Web sites of programs that interest you to get more information. — Consider taking the University's Career Development course, COUN 1661 (3 credit hours). — Ask your advisor about introductory classes that may be available to explore areas that interest you. — Attend information sessions on campus about career or major interests, Pre-Law and Allied Health Info Sessions, for example. — Participate in the annual "Discover Your Major Day" to meet and talk to leading instructors and advisors from various academic departments. — Use the Career Counseling Center's "Encounter Program." It allows you to visit with a professional in the line of work that interests you. How do I declare my major? See your advisor. You will remain assigned to the Academic Counseling Center (ACC) as long as you are undecided, take any developmental coursework, or have a GPA lower than 2.0. If you no longer meet any of these criteria and wish to choose one of CCFA's programs, you will work with our advisor Laurie Snyder to formally declare a major. At that time, you will be directed to the advisor of your declared major. Do I have to declare my major right away? It is not uncommon for most beginning college students to be unsure about their major. In fact, it is quite normal for students to remain "undeclared" through the first academic year. ACC advisors encourage students to keep an open mind when choosing a major and will often refer them to Career Counseling or to the CareerBeam resource for interest tests. Waiting to declare a major is not a problem since the UofM curriculum requires you to take certain basic courses (General Education) regardless of your major. Your experiences in and outside of the classroom during the first year will help you decide a major. When should I declare a major? To ensure that you can graduate with the minimum hours required, you are expected to choose a major by the end of your sophomore year. Where do I go for more information about my major? There are several sources of information for your major including: — The Undergraduate Catalog, which includes course descriptions, 4-year plans, and other useful information — Departmental Web sites — Faculty members — Advisors — Other Web sites, such as College or University resource sites What should I do if I want to change my major? Contact your advisor. He or she will have the appropriate paperwork and you can also discuss how your classes may change when choosing a new major. Why do I have to take General Education courses? "The purpose of the Tennessee Board of Regents' general education core classes is to ensure that college students have the broad knowledge and skills to become life-long learners in a global community that will continue to change. Because general education courses should emphasize breadth, they should not be reduced in design to the skills, techniques, or procedures associated with a specific occupation or profession. It's not uncommon for many people to change careers several times during their professional years, and become successful in fields unrelated to their major. General education provides critical thinking skills for analysis to continue to seek truths, to discover answers to questions, and to solve problems. Specifically, educated people practice and are literate in the various methods of communication. They recognize their place in the history, culture, and diverse heritages of Tennessee, the United States, and the world. They appreciate the web of commonality of all humans in a multicultural world and are prepared for the responsibilities of an engaged citizenship. They recognize the ethical demands of our common lives. They demonstrate the skills and knowledge of the social and behavioral sciences to analyze their contemporary world. They are familiar with the history and aesthetics of the fine arts. They understand and practice the scientific and mathematical view of the world. Finally, Tennessee's general education core provides for its citizens the means to make a better living. Above all, it enables its citizens to make a better life." What if I have a question that wasn't answered here? You can send an e-mail to ccfa@memphis.edu or call our office (901) 678-2350. Academic Programs Undergraduate Studies Choosing a Major Plan My Degree Apply to Graduate Advising Graduate Studies Degrees Offered Advising Apply Now Explore your creativity in CCFA. Contact Us Dean's office contact information Read Voices Online edition of CCFA's magazine Donate Now Support students and the arts with your donation Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/15/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .