#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/9136
Part-Time Faculty Pool, Intensive English for Internationals Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Part-Time Faculty Pool, Intensive English for Internationals Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number PTF163 Advertised Title Part-Time Faculty Pool, Intensive English for Internationals Position Number 004178 Department Intensive English for Internatls Job Summary Teach one or two courses for the University of Memphis, generally at the undergraduate level. THIS POSTING IS NOT A GUARANTEE OF AN OPEN POSITION . Applications for part-time faculty positions are accepted on a continuous basis and reviewed by the department chair when openings become available. Future teaching assignments are on a term-by-term basis, which may include fall, spring and summer. Postings close yearly on January 31; to maintain your application within the system, you will need to re-apply each year. At the time of application, applicants should be prepared to upload a cover letter, resume/CV, references list, statement of teaching philosophy, &amp; an unofficial transcript. Minimum Position Qualifications Master’s degree in the teaching discipline or master’s degree in another discipline with 18 hours of graduate work in the teaching discipline. Previous higher education teaching experience strongly desired. Selected candidates must agree to and pass a criminal background check in order to be employed. Special Conditions Posting Date 03/01/2015 Closing Date 01/31/2016 Open Until Filled No Hiring Range From $24 to $30 per teaching hour Special Instructions to Applicants Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). At what location(s) would you be able to teach for the University? All locations, including on-site, satellite, and online courses On-site, main campus courses only On-site, main campus AND Memphis area satellite locations On-site, main campus AND all satellite locations, including Lambuth &amp; Dyersburg campuses Lambuth campus only Dyersburg campus only Online courses only What is your current employment status at the University of Memphis? I have never been employed by the University of Memphis. Former employee (not currently employed) Current full-time/part-time employee Current full-time/part-time temporary employee Current graduate assistant Current student worker Do you have previous college teaching experience? Yes No Do you have at least a master&#x27;s degree in the teaching discipline or a master&#x27;s degree with a concentration in the teaching discipline? Yes No Have you ever been an employee, student, or alumnus of the University of Memphis, and/or had a &quot;memphis.edu&quot; email address or ID number? Yes No Applicant Documents Required Documents Resume Cover Letter Teaching Philosophy References List Unofficial Transcript Optional Documents