#http://www.memphis.edu/anthropology/people/ruthbeth-finerman.php
Ruthbeth Finerman - Department of Anthropology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Student Life Resources People in the Department of Anthropology Faculty &amp; Staff Emeriti Faculty Faculty in Other Departments Part-time Instructors Student Directory Home Department of Anthropology People Ruthbeth Finerman Ruthbeth Finerman Professor, Department Chair Phone 901.678.3334 Email finerman@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2069 Office 316 Manning Hall, Memphis, TN 38152 Office Hours Call for Hours CV About Dr. Finerman Dr. Finerman received her PhD from the University of California at Los Angeles. She specializes in research and teaching in applied medical anthropology, focusing on family health and caregiving, international health services delivery, reproductive health and childbirth, ethnomedicine and ethnobotany, mental health, and program evaluation to improve healthcare quality and access for underserved populations. She was a Fulbright Scholar, and has received the University of Memphis Outstanding Young Researcher Award, the University of Memphis Distinguished Teaching Award, the College of Arts and Science Excellence in Teaching Award, the Thomas Briggs Foundation Excellence in Teaching Award, and Dunavant Professorship. Expertise and Interests Applied medical anthropology, family health and caregiving, reproductive health and childbirth; ethnomedicine and ethnobotany; mental health; international health services delivery, health program evaluation, health disparities and barriers to care among US immigrant, refugee, and economically disadvantaged populations; indigenous and peasant populations in South and Central America. Research Projects Dr. Finerman has 30 years of fieldwork experience among indigenous and peasant populations in South and Central America, including a longitudinal study of medical change and medicinal plant use in Andean Ecuador, and an evaluation of child survival programs in Guatemala. She has served as consultant or technical advisor on health projects for the U.S. Agency for International Development and the World Health Organization. Research in Memphis includes enhanced health services delivery to immigrant and refugee groups, and populations facing health disparities. She collaborates with local agencies such as the Memphis and Shelby County Health Department, Methodist Healthcare, and St. Jude Children's Research Hospital on infant mortality prevention, infection control, barriers to health services among Latino immigrants and economically disadvantaged populations, and cultural competency training for local health providers. Selected Publications Submitted, In Review K. Johnson, M. González, M. Melgar, F. Antillon-Klussman, R. Finerman, M. Caniza. Understanding Hand Hygiene Behavior in a Pediatric Oncology Unit in a Low Middle Income Country: A Focus Group Approach. Submitted: Journal of Infectious Disease . In Press for 2015 Finerman, R . , A. Sanders, and L. Sagrestano. Pregnancy and Birth as a Medical Crisis. In: The Wrong Prescription for Women: How Medicine and Media Create a "Need" for Treatments, Drugs, and Surgery , M.C. McHugh and J.C. Chrisler, Eds. ISBN: 978-1-4408-3176-8 ABC/CLIO. 2014 Finerman, R. God's Laboratory: Assisted Reproduction in the Andes by Elizabeth F. S. Roberts. American Anthropologist 116(4):889-890, 2014 In Press, Accepted for 2014 Finerman, Ruthbeth. Family and Physical Health. The Encyclopedia of Health, Illness, Behavior, and Society . William Cockerham, Robert Dingwall, and Stella Wuah, Editors. Wiley-Blackwell. 2013 Sagrestano, L., J. Clay, and R. Finerman. Transportation vulnerability as a barrier to service utilization for HIV-positive individuals. AIDS Care: Psychological and Socio-medical Aspects of AIDS/HIV, DOI: 10.1080/09540121.2013.819403. Selected Awards 2014 Distinguished Research Award in the Social Sciences 2012-2015 Dunavant Professorship , College of Arts and Sciences 2013 Distinguished Publication , Association for Women in Psychology (co-authored chapter) 2005 CAS Excellence in Teaching Award , The University of Memphis 1999 Fulbright Scholar , Fulbright Foundation 1999 Professional Development Award , The University of Memphis 1998 Thomas Briggs Foundation Teaching Award , The University of Memphis 1997 Distinguished Teaching Award , The University of Memphis 1990 Early Career Research Award , The University of Memphis Courses Introduction to Cultural Anthropology (ANTH 1200) Psychological Anthropology (ANTH 4251/6251) Medical Anthropology (ANTH 4511/7511) Nutritional Anthropology (ANTH 4541/6541) Culture, Sexuality, and Reproduction (ANTH 4551/6551) Teaching Skills for Graduate Assistants (ANTH 7004) Methods in Anthropology (7075-8075) Seminar in About Dr. cultural Anthropology (ANTH 7100/8100) About Dr. cultural Epidemiology (ANTH 7521/8521) Anthropological Applications (ANTH 7985) Graduate Student Practicum Proseminar (ANTH 7984) Additional Resources Transportation vulnerability as a barrier to service utilization for HIV-positive individuals People in the Department of Anthropology Faculty &amp; Staff Emeriti Faculty Faculty in Other Departments Part-time Instructors Student Directory Undergrads: Declare Anthropology your major! Join the Graduate Program Learn about applied and engaged anthropology! News and Events Find out what's happening in the Department of Anthropology Contact Us Main office location and numbers, undergraduate and graduate advising Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .