#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/acct/2015FACCT2020501.pdf
1 ACCOUNTING 2 0 2 0 - 5 0 1 MANAGER IAL ACCOUNTING FALL 201 5 PROFESSOR Name: Dr. Kenneth Lambert Office: 217 Fogelman College of Business Office Phone: 678 - 5762 Office Hours: T - TR 1:00 - 2:3 0 pm. Other times by appointment. E - Mail: klambert@memphis.edu Class Meets: Tuesday, 5:00 - 9:45pm; Collierville Campus , Room 135 COURSE OVERVIEW Managerial A ccounting 2020 is an introductory course in managerial accounting and is concerned with providing information to managers and other people inside an organization who direct and control its operations on a day to day basis . Whereas financial accounting provides manag erial accounting provides essential information to those people that manage and control organizations . In contrast to financial accounting information, management accounting information is: designed and intended for use by managers within the organization, whereas financ ial accounting information is designed for use by shareholders and creditors. usually confidential and used by management, instead of publicly reported; forward - looking, instead of historical; computed by reference to the needs of managers, often using management information systems , instead of by reference to financial accounting standards. PRE - REQUISITES/CO - REQUISITES ACCT 2010, Fundamentals of Accounting I , is a pre - requisite for this course. Students should have a good grasp of basic mathematics and writing skills. In general it is assumed that all students who are registering for Fogelman College classes have successfully completed all pre - requisite courses or are enrolled currently in any co - requisites courses associated with this course or any other course they register to take. COURSE MATERIALS Managerial Accounting, Second Edition , Whitecotton, Libby, and Phillips. Connect Connect Accounting Plus is pa ckaged free with the textbook if the textbook is purchased through the university or Tiger bookstore. With Connect Accounting Plus , you also get 24/7 online access to an eBook an online edition of the text to aid you in successfully completing your wo 2 an access code ct. electronic version of the textbook. If you purchase the textbook online or buy it used , you will need to go to the Connect website provided in eCourseware to purchase an access code that you must have to register with Connect . The only access code you can purchase is for Connect Accounting Plus described above. Connect is required to successfully complete this course! Please go to the eCourseware Content page under Getting Started for the link to purchase Connect . The most economical means of acquiring the textbook is to just purchase Connect Accounting Plus which includes an eBook the online version of the text. Though a hard copy of the book is helpful, it is not required. You can purchase Connect Plus through the Getting Started All support course materials (PowerPoint slides, notes, news, etc.) are located on the eCourseware website . The link for ACCT 2020 - 5 01, this section, is: tion.com/class/k - lambert - acct - 2020 - 501 REGISTERING IN CONNECT: After you have acquired an access code you will need to register in Connect. This particular section of ACCT 2010 has its own unique registration site in the Connect web site. Be sure to us e the web address provided in the Getting Started portion of eCourseware to successfully register for this section. If you try to use a web address obtained from another student taking this course, in a different section, you will be registered in the wro ng section and I will not be able to see any of your completed homework or have access to the points you earned. ALSO it is very important that you register ONLY ONCE and use your official University of Memphis name just as you use in your official records here at the University no nick names onnect exactly as it is on the UofM Class Roster for this class. COURSE OBJECTIVES Upon completion of this course, students will be able to: 1. Explain the difference between financial and managerial accounting. 2. Explain the ability to calculate costs in a job order and a process cost accounting syste m and understand how the costs flow through the system. 3. Understand the types of costs and how they behave in order to calculate cost - volume - profit relationships. 4. Understand the types of budgets and be able to prepare many of the budgets. 5. Gain an un - making process as it relates to product pricing, production, equipment replacement, etc. FOGELMAN COLLEGE LEARNING OUTCOMES FOR YOUR DEGREE This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectiv es for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with the overall learning objectives as a student in the BBA pr ogram : 3 COURSE METHODOLOGY This course is a tradi tional classroom environment with the online environment where there are no actual classroom meetings. In this environment we will meet in a traditional classroom once per week for seven weeks and you will also need to do substantial work online outside o f the classroom. This course meets at specific times in an assigned classroom as indicated on page 1 above . Classes are a combination of lecture and demonstrated problem solving methodology. GRADING Points available in the course will be based on the following : Points Possible Quizzes (online under Quizzes on eCourseware) 30 Connect 50 Attendance 21 Syllabus quiz 15 Class project 20 Test 1 100 Test 2 100 Test 3 100 Final Exam 100 *** Total Possible Points 4 3 6 Your final grade will be determined based on the total points earned, as follows: A = 3 7 8 and above B = 3 3 6 3 7 7 C = 29 4 3 3 5 D = 2 5 2 2 9 3 F = 2 5 1 or below *** You must have an average exam grade of 65 to pass this class! This average DOES NOT include the quizzes, homework, GUDS, or Class Project. It is the average of the best two of the three exams plus the final exam as listed above. MY EXPECTATIONS OF STUDENTS 1. Attend every class and arrive on time. 2. Come to class prepared. Read the material scheduled for each day (see class schedule below) and attempt to work the homework assignments for that material. 3. Be prepared ( willing ) to ask questions you may have encountered in your study of the assigned materials for each class. 4. Be prepared ( willing ) to respond to questions that your professor may ask during class and participate in the discussion of lecture material when asked to do so. 5 . Be attentive in class Course Policies 6. Keep up with the progress of the course. Getting behind on reading the chapters, studying Lowest grade will be dropped. Does not include the final exam! 4 the material and doing the homework assignments is a sure way to make the course much more difficult than it is. 7 . Read and know the information in this syllabus . Be totally aware of deadlines and due dates for all assignments and accept responsibility for meeting those requirements. STUDENTS EXPECTATIONS OF THE PROFESSOR Students can expect the course to be a well - organized and engaging learning experience. You can expect to have individual assistance with the course if you need it, quick response to email messages and feedback on submitted work within 3 - 5 business days. COURSE POLICIES E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You can expect to receive official course correspondence from your professor at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a tim ATTENDANCE: Beginning October 2 0 , attendance will be taken each period. Each class period will consist of a lecture of the - of - chapter material. Attendance will be recorded at the beginning of each c lass and you will be given 3 points for being present. If you arrive to class late , after the official attendance for the day has be en tak en, you will not get the 3 points for attendance that day. The points given for attendance are a reward for being present and on time. If you miss class you cannot get attendance points for something that did not happen even if you were sick or had some other reason for being absent. TECHNOLOGY RULES: Computers will not be allowed in class . In the past, computers have been allowed. However, the temptation to give in to distractions like internet and email ha s proven too great. If you use the eBook, yo u will need to print the pages or slides prior to class. Cell phones will not be allowed in class . Should I see you using a cell phone (texting, lose the attendance credit for the day. Because of advances in technology, you can use ONLY a basic five - function calculator for exams. probably less than $5.00. Additionally, because of advances in cell phone techn ology, smart phones are able to store and transmit large amounts of data . For this reason, cell phones must be turned off and put away during exams and exam review (as they should be during all other class times) . If you have any questions and/or concern s about the calculator you are using, see the instructor before the exam so that we can resolve the issue . ACADEMIC INTEGRITY : The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Stude nt Handbook section on academic misconduct for a 5 may take steps as described o Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Academic misconduct during an exam will result in a grade of zero for that exam and notification to University officials. Academic misconduct includes helping or getting help from others or using unauthorized materials in completing the exam. Academic misconduct is considered unethical behavior and students should not compromis e their integrity for something as trivial as a grade in this course. CLASS CONDUCT: Stu dents will LOSE five points of their attendance/conduct grade if they disrupt the class in any way, such as talking excessively or other similar distracting behavior. It is my responsibility to other students and to the University to create an environment conducive to learning. Your disruption of that environment will result in a loss of points and could lead to expulsion from the course. EXAMS: Exams will consist of multiple - choice questions and problems. Exams are worth 100 points. The coverage for each exam is indicated in the course schedule and the final exam is comprehensive. Exams must be taken at the scheduled time . No late exams will be given except for official university - approved activities. If a student m isses an exam for personal reasons (sickness, family emergency, etc.), then it will be considered the lowest exam grade and dropped. Final Exam Schedule: The final exam is scheduled for December 1 st at the regular class time! It cannot be dropped! Be certain you can be present for the final exam! QUIZZES : Except for the syllabus quiz, a ll the quizzes are online in Connect the McGraw - Hill web site where homework assignments are completed . Each online quiz is worth 3 points for a total of 30 points all together. The syllabus quiz is a take home quiz. HOMEWORK ASSIGNMENTS : Homework assigned in Connect should be completed online. Homework will be graded and totals 5 0 possible points ( 5 points possible each chapter for Required Assignments ). You may wo rk the homework as many times as you like up to the cutoff date . All homework assignments have stated end dates and will not be available after the end date . The highest grade is recorded. Students should try to complete the homework before class. The subject matter on the exams will be covered in the homework assignments . Students can judge their development in the course by noting how well they understand the homework. Instructions for Connect are on eCourseware. The URL site you need to go to for this course is on eCourseware under the Getting Started section . 6 EXTRA CREDIT AND CURVED GRADES: There will be no extra credit available to individuals who want to improve their grade by doing some type of extra work over and above what is available to other students in the class . The only way to improve your grade in this course is to attend class regularly, stay current with the course schedule don t get b ehind, be prepared for the exams, and complete required assignments . - ove grading scale which permits you to have some absences or miss some of the homework assignments without being penalized. SYLLABUS CHANGES : As your professor in this course, I reserve the right to make changes as necessary to this syllabus. If changes are necessitated during the term of the course, I will notify students of such changes by announcing the changes in class, by individual email communication and posting in eCourseware. KEYS TO SUCCESS IN THIS COURSE math course. It involves analyzing business transactions, knowing how to record those transactions, preparing financial statements, and interpreting financial results. Though Managerial Accounting involves less analyzing and more interpreting, it is still true that homewo rk, class work and attendance are the keys to success . Students often falsely believe that they can wait until the night before the exam, cram everything in, and do just as well as if they were prepared daily. To do well, you need to attend class each per iod. I can help to synthesize the material and point out the key concepts that are needed. Students generally learn far more in less time inside of class than they do on their own outside of class. Students should also complete as much of the assigned ho mework as possible before class. At the very least, read the chapter! There are more probl ems in managerial accounting th a n there are in financial accounting. Students not familiar with the problems will have difficulty keeping up in class. Finally, expe ct that you can learn the material each class. Do not be intimidated by the numbers or the complexity of the topic. Your goal should be to understand all material each class. This course focuses on the core competencies of managerial accounting that are vital to success in management positions as well as information needed for accounting majors to succeed in upper level accounting courses. This is not to say that the information not covered in the textbook is not useful. You may find this is a good refe rence book for future career decisions you may face. Beginning with the second chapter, select learning object ives will be covered. Be sure to read the course schedule below to know what material will be covered and tested. CRITICAL THINKING & COMMUNICATION In our class discussions on managerial accounting requirements, you will be continually encouraged to question each requirement, (1) focusing on why, not just how, (2) learning d ifferential analysis and relevant costs tec hniques to use in pricing analysis, make - or - buy decisions, opportunity costs, product line and business segment analysis, and (3) questioning the standards in relation to conceptually appropriate treatment of the issue. One of the goal s is to foster a cri tical thinking mindset to help equip you with solid decision - making skills that will 7 benefit you no matter what path your life takes . INSTRUCTIONAL ASSISTANCE Tutoring is offered free on the second floor of the Fogelman Business building in the ESP Business Learning Center, room 256. Hours are posted on the door . Additional questions are provided in Connect Examples of all end - of - chapter material for which you will be held responsible will be worked in class. You will have plenty of opportunity to practice this material by completing assigned class work (called GUDS Greater Understanding Dev iceS) and homework on Connect . Should you get stuck on a homework problem try going back to the pages in the chapter where the subject matter of the problem is discussed and re - study the topic. Also, there is frequently a demonstration problem, journal entries or other illustration to explain the topic be sure to study those it ems and you will probably be able to get the information you This schedule is subject to change if deemed necessary by the professor . COURSE SCHEDULE Week One October 2 0 th : Introduction to Course. Chapter 1: Introduction to Managerial Accounting. Chapter 2: Job Order Costing Work on assignments and quizzes for these chapters 1 and 2 in Connect . Week Two October 27 th : Chapter 3: Process Costing Chapter 4: Activity Based Cos t Management All assignments and q uizzes in Connect for chapters 1 - 4 are due at 11:59pm November 2 , 2015. Week Three November 3 rd : Catch up, Review, Q&A before Exam I . Exam I , Chapters 1 - 4 . Chapter 5: Cost Behavior Chapter 6: Cost - Volume - Profit Analysis All assignments and q uizzes in Connect for chapters 1 - 4 are due at 11:59pm November 9 , 2015. Week Four November 1 0 th : Catch up, Review, Q&A before Exam I I . Exam I I , Chapters 5 - 6 . Chapter 7: Incremental Analysis for Short - term Decision Making Week Five November 17 th : Chapter 8: Budgetary Planning Chapter 10: Decentralized Performance Evaluation All assignments and qu izzes in Connect for chapters 7, 8 and 10 are due at 1 1:59pm November 2 3 , 2015. Week Six November 2 4 th : Catch up, Review, Q&A before Exam III. Exam III, Chapters 7, 8 and 10 . Chapter 11: Capital Budgeting 8 All assignments and quizzes in Connect for chapter 11 are due at 11:59pm November 30 , 2015. Week Seven December 1 st : Catch up, Review, Q &A before Final Exam. Final Exam, Chapters 1 - 11.