#http://www.memphis.edu/ssc/pdf/travel_instructions.pdf
Requesting Travel Purchase Orders & Travel Reimbursement Before requesting a Travel Purchase Order number from SSC, you should have the following: Prior approval from your department manager or chair The department index number(s) to be charged (6 - digit number) provided by your financial manager To get started with purchase order request 1. Access Helpdesk ( ) & select 2. Log in to the SSC Help Desk system with your user ID and password to create a request for a Travel Purchase Order 3. Select a then Select International Travel a. International requires 21 days advance of departure date 4. Enter the requested information on the ticket details. A red asterisk * indicates a required field. a. Enter in the Index Number (s) b. The estimated amount(s) for the trip do not enter a dollar sign (i.e. 3000.00). c. Select the trip purpose (i.e. Conference, meeting, seminar, etc.) d. Indicate if this is Blanket Travel Multiple trips or 1 time w/several members (Y or N) e. Give your trip a title under Justification for trip (i.e. Nashville Conf.) and add message 5. Once all of the information is entered, click . You will receive a return message confirming your submission. To follow up, inquire, submit expenses for reimbursement, or submit new travel dates for Blanket Travel Tickets All required travel receipts must be scanned and uploaded to the SSC via the Help Desk ticket 6. Log in to the SSC Help Desk system with your user ID and password 7. Go to 8. Select the ticket you want to view by clicking on the name or Ticket ID (i.e. Nashville Conf.) 9. Once the ticket is opened, select to Reply 10. To upload all scanned receipts (.DOC, .JPG, & .PDF) , select & to upload the documents from your computer 11. Indicate in Message Details that the receipts are attached, and hit . You have completed your request for reimbursement. Next Steps 12. Shared Services will create your travel expense claim. It will be uploaded to the Help Desk system under the same ticket number. You will be notified by email when it is ready to review. 13. You will review the expense report for correctness. If it is correct , print it out, attach your original receipts, and deliver to your financial manager for approval and signature. 14. The financial manager returns the expense claim to Shared Services, who then updates your Help Desk ticket. 15. The Shared Services Center takes your expense claim to Accounting for payment. 05 /2 1 /15