#http://www.memphis.edu/efiles/department-events.php
Department Seminars - E-Files - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Arts &amp; Sciences E-Files Newsletter Headlines Announcements Kudos College Events Department Seminars Home E-Files Department Seminars Department Seminars, Presentations, Colloquium and Series Biological Sciences The Department of Biology presents a series of lectures and seminars each fall and spring semester. All seminars unless otherwise noted are held at 4:00 pm Thursdays in Ellington Hall Auditorium (EH100) with a Reception at 3:30 pm in Ellington Hall Foyer. Visit the department website for a full list of events. Chemistry Our weekly Departmental Seminar series occurs every Friday afternoon (excluding holidays, cancellations, etc.) The seminar is located in Smith Chemistry Room 102. Seminar begins at 1:30 PM with refreshments, coffee, and opportunities to chat with the seminar speaker and fellow members of the Department. At 2:00 PM, the Seminar begins and typically lasts 50 minutes + 5-10 minutes of Q&amp;A. Please join us! Please contact William Alexander , Seminar Coordinator, for requests for accommodations, general information, or if you would like to present in our seminar series. List of Seminars Chucalissa Family Days - EVERY Saturday at 10am &amp; 1pm For the price of regular Museum admission: Take a tour of the Museum, throw darts with an atlatl, conduct a scavenger hunt in our Main Hall, tour our Hands-On Archaeology Lab and participate in a fun educational program and craft activity! For more information, please visit the website . Computer Science The Computer Science Colloquium is open to the public at large and is usually held Fridays at 12:30 pm during the Spring and Fall semesters. The event aims to provide a view of the cutting-edge in computer science, computer science education, and relevant research from other disciplines. The speakers include faculty from the University of Memphis, guest speakers from other schools and industry, and occasionally students in the final stages of their academic programs. The talks are followed by a reception to foster interaction between audience and speakers. Visit the CS Website . english The Humanities Brown Bag Series aims to acquaint faculty with research being conducted across the humanities and to spark cross-disciplinary collaborations and conversations. Sponsored by the Marcus Orr Center for the Humanities, these informal, lunchtime meetings are open to all university faculty. Read more about this years' speakers here. Foreign Languages and Literatures The Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures has several events throughout the fall and spring semesters. The Events Calendar on the department site lists all events, locations and times. All Events Mathematical Sciences Visit the Department of Mathematical Sciences website for a full list of events, conferences, and announcements. Philosophy The Department of Philosophy sponsors several conferences, lectures, and faculty talks throughout the semester. These include the Philosophy Graduate Student Conference, Spindel Conference, and the Ida B. Wells Conference. To see the full list of events, visit the department website . Physics Each fall and spring semester, the Department of Physics presents weekly seminars. Contact Pranhakar Pradhan ( ppradhan@memphis.edu , 678-1320) for more information. Seminars are held on Fridays, 3.00-4.00pm, Venue: Manning Hall # 201 (Physics Auditorium) Full list of Events Political Science *All Brown Bag presentations are open to the campus community. They are scheduled for 12:45 in 409 Clement Hall on the following days: October 23 – Meredith Long (Vanderbilt University), "Who Cares? The Role of Compassion in Politics" November 6 – Matt DiGiuseppe (University of Mississippi), "The Politics of Debt Restructuring: Institutions, Preferences, and Creditor Losses" Visit the Department of Political Science website for more event information. Department News Find out about fascinating research, upcoming events, speaker presentations, awards and more. Check out the list of Department Newsletters, Social Media and Blogs from the College of Arts &amp; Sciences. Accolades Learn more about the exciting research, engaged scholarship and world-class faculty in the College of Arts and Sciences. College of Arts and Sciences E-Files is the online news source for the College of Arts and Sciences. Visit the college website for more information on programs and degrees. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/6/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .