#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/acct/2015FACCT3110001.pdf
p . 1 Course Syllabus ACCT 31 10 - 001 Int ermediate Accounting I Fall Term , 2015 3.0 Credit Hours (Last updated: 8 / 18 / 2015) Instructor: Joseph H . Zhang , PhD CPA Phone : 901.678. 4 9 8 9 E - mail: jzhang5@memphis.edu Office: FCBE # 21 9 Office Hours: Monday & Wednesday 12 : 2 0 - 2 : 2 0PM Course Overview : Intermediate Accounting I is an in - depth study in specific subjects in accounting. Subject matters covered will be the accounting cycle, accounting theory and concepts, the income statement, the balance sheet, and the statement of retained earnings, future and p resent value, cash, receivables . Intermedi ate Accounting is the only course in which you have an in - depth treatment of the subjects which are tested heavily on the CPA exam. A thorough knowledge of Intermediate Accounting I is critical to having a good understan ding of financial accounting. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: A CCT 2010 Fundamentals of A ccounting I Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : Spiceland et al., Intermediate Accounting, McGraw - Hill, 8th Edition, Connect to accompany the text. Most assignments are to be completed online within Connect, a web - based assignment and assessment platform. With Connect Accounting, I will deliver assignments online. You will be given opportunities to practice important skills at your own pace and on your own schedule. With Connect Accounting Plus , you also get 24/7 online access to an eBook an online edition of the text. Connect comes free with all new copies of the textbook purchased through the University bookstore and many other sources. A n access code is included that you wi ll need to register with p . 2 used text or a new text from certain other sources, it will not include Connect and you will need to purchase an access code from the access code does not need to include the eBook (It can be Connect and not Connect Plus). Here Video Instructions . Use the code to register at the site below: Follow these instructions to register with your section and Connect: Go to the following Web address and click the "register now" but ton: This Section: If you need help with Connect, here are three sources: ( 800 ) 331 - 5094, option 2 Student video tutorials for help embedded within Connect Location of Course Materials : C ourse materials are located on the eCourseware web site . The Internet class home page is located in eCourseware at: . This page contains all the instructions for this class. To log on, you need your University of Memphis UUID and password. If y ou have trouble logging on, first try to see if you can fix the problem. If not, call 678 - 8888 or go to Computer Services on the first floor of the Administrative building. Once logged on and at the Course Homepage, go to Course Content . To successfully Read the chapter. While reading, take notes of the important items covered. Pay particular attention to the learning objectives listed at the beginning of the chapter. Rework examples in the chapter to make sure you understand the concepts covered. Expect to spend 3 hours per chapter reading. Answer the Quizzes . Quizzes are attached to the 7 chapters in Connect . Be sure to pay attention to the schedule because the quiz questions will open and close at the approximate times the chapters are covered. You will have two opportunities to take each quiz. Incorrect answers are listed after the quiz is submitted, and t he highest score is recorded. The quizzes have stated start and end dates and will not be available after the end date! All quizzes are due by 11:59 pm on the due date. You should be able to find the answers to all quiz questions in the text, but you may use any legitimate source in doing so. However, do not collaborate with any other person. Do your own work! Watch and download PowerPoint Tutorials from the course Content and print. The slides should be reviewed and added to your notebook. Your notebo ok should contain the printed slides, notes, and problem solutions by chapter. The notebook will assist you with reviewing and preparing for the midterm and final exams. To download, simply click on the file name and select Open or Save. You can save to jump drive or your computer. To print the file: p . 3 1. Open the file in PowerPoint. DO NOT CLICK THE PRINT ICON ON THE TASK BAR. 2. From the menu bar at the top of the screen, click on File. 3. On the drop - down menu, select Print. 4. Next to Print What: Select Handout a nd either 3 or 6 per page . 5. Click OK to print Solve Assignments in Connect. Open the Connect website, log in and select the current chapter. Go first to the PRACTICE SET for the chapter. Work a minimum of 5 problems. You should print the problem and solve it on paper. You can input the answers on Connect having difficulty solving the problem, submit it. This will allow you to see the answer and work the problem out correctly. Once you have worked the practice problems, open the required proble ms in Connect and solve them. You may work the problems as many times as you like up until the close date. The highest grade will be used. The problems selected are algorithmic (each time they are worked, there will be different numbers). All of the re quired assignment problems are also included in the practice assignment problems except the numbers are different. Expect to spend 2 3 hours working each Solve the Project for the chapter from the Course Content and save it to y our computer and read the instructions. Solve the problem using the spreadsheet. When you have completed the spreadsheet, upload it to the indicated DROPBOX in eCourseware. If you a re having difficulty completing the problem, see if there is a narrated slide offering tips, find the practice problem in Connect like the project and work it out, and go to Discussions to find assistance from your classmates or from me. Please try these approaches before emailing me with questions . Course Objectives : After completing this course you should: 1. Be able to record a variety of basic accounting events. 2. Be able to prepare fundamental financial reports. 3. Understand some basic roles of financial information in capital markets. 4. Apply problem - solving skills to concepts covered in this course. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with th e overall learning objectives as a student in the BBA ACCT p rogram : p . 4 Student's Expectations of the Professor : In my role as your instructor, there are certain things you can expect from me including: well - organized and engaging learning experience, r esponse to emails within ONE business day, and feedba ck on all work submitted within 3 - 5 calendar days. Grading and Evaluation Criteria Over the semester, you will have a variety of opportunities to earn points towards your final (overall) letter grade in this course. This section of the syllabus describes the assessed work you will be doing and how overall (final) le tter grades will be computed. Final Course Grades Your grade this semester will be determined on the basis of the total points you earn: Exam 1 5 0 points Exam 2 100 points Exam 3 100 points Exam 4 5 0 points Exam 5 1 00 points Final Exam (comprehensive) 2 00 points LearnSmart 7 0 points Quizzes 35 points Excel Projects (eCourseware) 35 points Required Assignments 70 points Total 8 10 points Percentage Letter Grade 100% - 90% A 89.9% - 80% B 79.9% - 70% C 69.9% - 60% D Below 60% F The grading scale applied to the points for the course represents the guaranteed minimum number of points required to earn any given grade. For example, if you accumulat e 729 points (90% of 810 However, I may o students earning less than 7 29 points. I will not curve individual assignments and exams. Any adjustments to the grading scale will occur at the end of the course based on overall performance of the class and subject to judgment of the instructor. ** The total of the f ive exams must be 240 points (60%) or above to pass! If not, you will earn an F in the course REGARDLESS of the total point s earned ! This is one of three sections of ACCT 3110 offered with identical course requirements. Final grades will be awarded consistently across all sections. p . 5 Periodic Exams The five periodic exams during the semester will test your knowledge and understanding of the material in the chapters indicated. These exams will consist of multiple - choice questions primarily problems similar to the homework exercises and problems ; other concep tual questions may be included . All of the exams are timed. Although you will have your study materials available to you, because the exams are timed to assume you know the material, you will be unsuccessful if you rely on your study materials. Prepare as if you were in a classroom without the aid of those materials. You will not have time to look up answers you do not know. Final Exam The final exam will cover all chapters. The questions will be approximately evenly divided between "conceptual question s" and numerical problems with multiple choice solutions. LearnSmart Y ou are required to work the LearnSmart assignment for each chapter. LearnSmart selects questions based on how familiar you are with the material. If you have not read the chapter, you will spend a lot more time on LearnSmart and may even be stopped by the program and told to go review the chapter! To spend a reasonable amount of time on LearnSmart, you should not try to work it without reading! The LearnSmart assignments are worth 10 po ints each. Quizzes There is a quiz attached to each of the 7 chapters in Connect . Each set of questions is worth 5 points (for a total of 35 points). Be sure to pay attention to the schedule because the quiz questions will open and close at the approximate times the chapters are covered. You will have two opportunities to take each quiz. Incorrect answers are listed after the quiz is submit ted, and the highest score is recorded. The quizzes have stated start and end dates and will not be available after the end date! All quizzes are due by 11:59 pm on the due date. You should be able to find the answers to all quiz questions in the text, bu t you may use any legitimate source in doing so. However, do not collaborate with any other person. Do your own work! Projects Projects consist of Excel spreadsheet problems from the book that are to be downloaded from Course Content for each chapter. Projects ar e listed under eCourseware for 5 of the 7 chapters. The projects should be uploaded to the D ropbox by the due date. Projects will not be graded until after the D ropbox closes ; do not email them to me! All projects are due by 11:59 pm on the du e date. Each project counts 5 points for a total 35 possible Project points. Required Assignments Once you have worked the practice problems, open the required problems in Connect and work them. You may work the problems as many times as you like up until the close date. The highest grade will be used. The problems selected are algorithmic (each time they are worked, p . 6 there will be different numbers). All of the required assignment problems are also included in the practice assignment problems except t he numbers are different. will count 1 0 points for a total of 7 0 for the 7 chapters. Tentative Schedule Date Chapter 8 - 2 4 Chapter 1; Environment and Theoretical Structure of Financial Accounting 8 - 2 6 8 - 31 Chapter 1; Environment and Theoretical Structure of Financial Accounting Chapter 1; Environment and Theoretical Structure of Financial Accounting 9 - 2 No class Exam 1 (on 9 - 3 / 4 ) 9 - 7 9 - 9 9/14 9 - 16 9/21 No class Labor Day Chapter 2; Review of the Accounting Process Chapter 2; Review of the Accounting Process Chapter 2; Review of the Accounting Process No class Exam 2 (on 9 - 19/21) 9 - 2 3 9 - 28 9 - 30 10 - 5 Chapter 3; The Balance Sheet and Financial Disclosures Chapter 3; The Balance Sheet and Financial Disclosures Chapter 3; The Balance Sheet and Financial Disclosures Chapter 4; The Income Statement and Statement of Cash Flows 10 - 7 10/12 Chapter 4; The Income Statement and Statement of Cash Flows No class Fall Break 10/14 10/19 Chapter 4; The Income Statement and Statement of Cash Flows No class Exam 3 (on 10 - 17/18) 10/21 10/26 10/28 11/2 11/4 11/9 Chapter 5; Income Measurement and Profitability Analysis Chapter 5; Income Measurement and Profitability Analysis Chapter 5; Income Measurement and Profitability Analysis No class Exam 4 (on 10 - 31 or 11/1) Chapter 6; Time Value of Money Concepts Chapter 6; Time Value of Money Concepts p . 7 11/11 Chapter 6; Time Value of Money Co ncepts 11 - 1 6 11/18 11/23 11/25 11/30 Chapter 7; Cash and Receivables Chapter 7; Cash and Receivables Chapter 7 ; Cash and Receivables No class Thanksgiving Break No class Exam 5 (on 11/28 - 30 ) Final Exam Schedule Final exam is comprehensive , taken in class on December 9, 5:30 - 7:30pm . Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all o fficial course correspondence through this email account. ability to receive incoming mail in a timely Attendance: No credit is awarded for class attendance, and it will not be recorded. Failure to attend class is frequently related to poor performance. There will be no scheduled make - up quizzes or exams. You must inform the instructor in advance if you will miss an examination and provide an excuse acceptable to the university in order to arrange a make - up. For students receiving federal student loans, any lack of engagement in the course may be treated as non - attend ance and potentially impact access to student loans in the future. Adding / Dropping : I f you have questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to th is page on the . Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. Note that using a Solutions Manual is considered cheating. Should your professor have evidence that using a Solutions Manual has occurred, he/she may take steps Office of Student Conduct website . If you h ave any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . p . 8 Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance