#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/acad_reg/fresh_start.php
Academic Fresh Start - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Academic Regulations Academic Fresh Start Academic Fresh Start “Academic Fresh Start” is a plan of academic forgiveness which allows undergraduate students who previously experienced academic difficulty to improve their academic record upon returning to college after an extended absence. The Academic Fresh Start allows eligible students to resume study without being penalized for past unsatisfactory scholarship and signals the initiation of a new grade point average (GPA). Student Requirements To be considered eligible for an Academic Fresh Start, a student must: Have been separated from all regionally accredited collegiate institutions for at least four (4) consecutive calendar years immediately preceding the first term of enrollment as a transfer student or re-enrollment at the University of Memphis. Be admitted as a degree-seeking student at the University of Memphis. Have an overall combined (cumulative) GPA below 2.50 at the time of application for the Academic Fresh Start. Not have earned an undergraduate degree previously. Submit an Academic Fresh Start application and academic plan to the Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services (CARES) within one (1) calendar year from the term of enrollment or re-enrollment at the University of Memphis. Terms of Academic Fresh Start The student may be granted an Academic Fresh Start only once during an undergraduate career. This includes an Academic Fresh Start (or its equivalent) granted at other regionally accredited institutions of higher education. Tennessee Board of Regents (TBR) institutions (including the University of Memphis) will honor an Academic Fresh Start provision granted at another TBR institution, and non-TBR institutions may not honor an Academic Fresh Start granted by the University of Memphis. The student’s permanent record (including academic standing) will remain a record of all work attempted; however, the Academic Fresh Start allows for courses previously failed to be excluded from the calculation of the new GPA. Courses with a “D” grade will also be excluded from the calculation when a grade of “C” or better is required in the student’s current major. The new GPA and credit hours will reflect courses for which passing grades were earned and retained from the pre-Academic Fresh Start performance. a. Retained grades and credits will be calculated in the new GPA. b. Courses with “D” or “F” grades must be repeated at the University of Memphis when they are required for the student’s current major. All remaining courses needed to satisfy the current degree requirements must be completed at the institution. In accordance with Tennessee Board of Regents policy for Academic Fresh Start (Section IV of TBR Policy 2:03:01:01), NO TRANSFER OR TRANSIENT CREDIT WILL BE ADDED TO THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS ACADEMIC RECORDS FOR A STUDENT GRANTED THE ACADEMIC FRESH START BY THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS. c. The current major will be considered the major the student has selected when the Academic Fresh Start is applied. Courses excluded from the calculation will not be reviewed or reconsidered should the student change majors after receiving the Academic Fresh Start. d. Retained grades and credits will be applied toward major and degree requirements in effect at the time the Academic Fresh Start is granted to the student. Specific academic program and degree regulations must also be met. 4. Academic Fresh Start recipients who did not complete a college-level English or mathematics course must meet current academic assessment and placement program requirements before enrollment in these courses is permitted. Students may be required to complete the COMPASS exam to determine eligibility for these courses. Previously satisfied assessment and placement program requirements (including COMPASS) will not be forfeited. 5.The Academic Fresh Start is awarded independent of financial aid regulations. Federal, state and institutional financial aid requirements at the time of application will apply. Billing and debt requirements associated with previous enrollment are not intended to be resolved with the granting of an Academic Fresh Start. Therefore, an Academic Fresh Start applicant should consult the Office of Financial Aid, Bursar’s Office, Scholarship Office, and/or Veterans Educational Benefits &amp; Certification in the Office of Registrar at the University of Memphis for proper guidance regarding federal, state, and institutional financial aid programs; collection of student fees and charges; payment plan options; scholarship eligibility; and/or educational benefits. 6. Academic Fresh Start requires approval by the appropriate college dean or designee. 7. Academic Fresh Start will be formally applied after the census enrollment date at the University of Memphis. 8. The student’s University of Memphis transcript will note that an Academic Fresh Start was granted and the effective date. Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .