#http://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/econ/2015FECON8311001.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus ECON 8311: Microeconomics II Fall, 2015 3 credit hours Instructor: Dr. Carmen Astorne - Figari Email : cmstrnfg@memphis.edu Office: 427 FCB Office Hours : By Appointment Class: W, 5:30 - 8 :30, 262 FCB Website: eCourseware Graduate Assistant: Jobu Babin, jbabin@memphis.edu , 111 FEC, office hours by appt. Course Overview : This class covers advanced microeconomic applications of game theory, including static and dynamic games of complete and incomplete information, Bayesian games, refinements of equilibrium concepts, and significant applications of strategic behavior. For these topics, we will develop a n intuitive approach, supported by quantitative analysis to develop fundamental proofs for certain concepts. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: The course contains material and approaches targeted at those having substantial exposure to microeconomic theory. I will assume that everyone has a certain level of mathematical maturity, meaning that you are comfortable with (or willing to accommodate) m athematical notation and argument; we will employ tools that are consistent with a mechanical knowledge of an undergraduate calculus sequence. It is crucial that if you lack such skills, you consult the instructor or GA as soon as possible. It is also stro ngly suggested that students have taken ECON 6810 (Quantitative Economic Analysis) and ECON 7300 (Economics Decisions and Theory). See college catalog or Ph.D. handbook for more info rmation. Reference Texts: Game Theory for Applied Economists by Robert Gibbons, ISBN 9780691003955 Location of Course Materials : The primary source of material in this course will be your class note. Problem sets, their solutions, as well as the grade book are located on the eCourseware web site . p. 2 Course Objectives : By successfully completing this course, students will : 1. Identify more complex strategic situations and represent them formally as games. 2. Understand different types of strategies and their properties. 3. Understand and implement solution concepts for one - shot games. 4. Understand the notation and modelling of sequential games. 5. Understand the difference between perfect informat ion and imperfect information games and their representation s . 6. Understand and impl ement solution concepts for sequential games , and the relevant equilibrium refinements . 7. Understand the modelling of finitely repeated games. 8. Un derstand the modelling of infinitely repeated games and the interpretation of discount factors. 9. Understand the different implications of fini te vs. infinite repetition of stage games in terms of equilibrium outcomes. 10. Understand the notation and modelling of incomplete information games . 11. Understand and impl ement solution concepts for incomplete information games , and the relevant equilibrium refinements . 12. Apply game theory to the analysis of price and quantity competition in oligopolies. 13. Understand the modeling of adverse selection problems using game theory . 14. Understand the modeling of moral hazard problems using game theory . 15. Understand the role of signaling in incomplete information games. 16. Understand the motivation behind mechanism design in the context of the above applications. p. 3 Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the M A /PhD degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with th e overall learning objectives as a student your respective program : MA ECON ngOutcomes/MAEconDegreeLearningOutcomes.pdf PhD sment.net/LearningOutcomes/PhDDegreeLearningOutcomes.pdf Grading and Evaluation Criteria This section of the syllabus describes the assessed work you will be doing and how overall (final) letter grades will be computed. Final Course Grades Final course grades are earned according to the following table : Point Range Assigned Grade 90 - 100 A 80 - 90 B 70 - 80 C 60 - 70 D < 60 F Summary of Graded Activities Both the midterm and the final exams will be in class and closed book, meaning that you may not consult the text, your notes, or any other material, nor may you communicate with each other while taking them. These exams will be based primarily on homework and class notes (rather than on the text or s upplemental reading). Assessment Date Total Weight Midterm 1 Oct. 7 50 % Final Exam Dec. 9 50 % I will not offer a makeup exam. Valid excuses for missing the exam include a verified illness or special family circumstances (e.g. death of a member of the immediate family). To be excused from the exam, you must notify me via university email before the exam begins. If you are excused, your course grade will then depend on your homework grade and on your performance on the other exam. The homework , which will be posted on the class website , will consist of 4 problem sets. You are not required to turn in these problem sets, meaning that these will NOT be graded. It is your responsibility to do the work and to have them finished by the due date. Solutions will be posted p. 4 on the class website on the due date. It is your responsibility to correct your own wo rk . These problems are designed to chal lenge and may be time intensive . Their purpose is to be a learning tool by which you assess your own understanding of the course material, and therefore, your level of preparedness for the exams. On homework (and exam s), focus on the completeness, clarity and logical structure of your solutions. You must provide a written answer to each question; numbers or calculations with no explanation will not be satisfactory. In other words, your answers should not only directly answer the question, but also provide to a reader an explanation of how you arrived at that answer. As is usually the case in graduate school, you are encouraged to work together. However, each student must turn in his or her own write - up of the solutions in a timely manner. Tentative due dates are the following: Course Topics : 1. Stati c Games of Complete Information 2. Dynamic Games of Complete Information 3. Static Games of Incomplete Information 4. Dynamic Games of Incomplete Information 5 . Assorted Topics: Bargaining, Adverse Selection, etc. (time contingent) 6 . Overview of Mechanism Design Problem Set Tentative Due Date 1 Sept. 1 6 2 Sept . 30 3 Nov. 4 4 Nov. 25 p. 5 Final Exam Schedule The final exam for this class will be Wed., Dec. 9, 2015 , scheduled according to the academic calendar website . Other Important Dates: First day of class Aug 24, 2015 / Mon Labor Day Sep 7, 2015 / Mon Fall Break Oct 10 - 13, 2015 / Sat - Tues Last Day to Drop Oct 16, 2015 / Fri Thanksgiving Holidays Nov 25 - 29, 2015 / Wed - Sun Last Day of Classes Dec 2, 2015 / Wed Study Day Dec 3, 2015 / Thur Exam Week Dec 4 - 10, 2015 / Fri - Thur Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all o fficial course correspondence at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not regularly checking your email, responsibility. Attendance : As this is a graduate class, the as sumption is that you all have the drive and intuition to attend all class lectures. Thus, formal attendance will n ot be taken. Your full engagement in the class begins on the first day of the semester and should be maintained until the last assignment is s ubmitted. For students receiving funding , any lack of engagement in the course may potentially impact access to funding in the future. Students are responsible for all the material covered in class, even if they are unable to attend. Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. Note that using a Solutions Manual , is considered cheating. Should your professor have evidence that such behavior has occurred, she may take steps Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . p. 6 Syllabus Change s: The instructor reserves the right to make changes as necessary to this syllabus. If changes are necessitated during the term of the course, the instructor will immediately notify students of such changes both by individual email communication and posting both notification and nature of change(s) on the course bulletin board. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance