#http://www.memphis.edu/efiles/2015nov2/environmental-conference.php
Environmental Conference - E-Files - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Arts &amp; Sciences E-Files Newsletter Headlines Announcements Kudos College Events Department Seminars Section Config error: breadcrumb not defined in section_config.pcf file. Please see (Click here) for details how to setup breadcrumb correctly. "Envisioning A Cleaner, Healthier Environment: A Grassroots Community Conference" The University of Memphis, the Sierra Club Environmental Justice Program, the Tennessee Chapter and the Chickasaw Group of the Sierra Club are joining together for the second year to present "Envisioning A Cleaner, Healthier Environment: A Grassroots Community Conference" on Saturday, November 7 at 8:30a.m. in the University of Memphis University Center. The conference will feature Minnesota Congressman Keith Ellison (photo to the right), as the keynote speaker. National Sierra Club President, Aaron Mair (photo below), will address the conference at the closing luncheon. The conference will also feature the presentation of the Sierra Club's 2015 Dick Mochow Environmental Justice Award to Representative Steve Cohen from Memphis' 9th Congressional District in recognition of his legislative activity and support for a clean, safe, and healthy environment. Following Congressman Ellison's comments and the presentation to Congressman Cohen, conference participants will have an opportunity to attend two sessions of workshops presented by local and state-wide experts on environmental health, environmental justice, clean water, clean air, alternative energy sources and community organizing. The conference is free and open to the public with a complimentary lunch and free parking in the Zach Curlin Garage adjacent to the University Center. For 14 years, the Sierra Club has brought individual participants and members of community organizations together to learn about and generate ideas for improving environmental justice and environmental health in the mid-south at this conference. For the past two years the collaborative effort between the University and the Sierra Club has included students and faculty members joining local environmental activists to raise awareness on environmental issues. This annual environmental conference is one of the only events in the region focusing on providing easy-to-understand information and the opportunity to network with expert speakers and activists. Congressman Ellison represents the 5th Congressional District in Minnesota which includes Minneapolis and its surrounding suburbs. The 5th district is among the most vibrant and diverse districts in the state. His legislative priorities include building prosperity for working families, promoting peace, pursuing environmental sustainability, and advancing civil and human rights. He is a member of the House Financial Services Committee and the House Democratic Steering Committee. He is a past member of the House Judiciary Committee and the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. Ellison was elected co-chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. He is also a member of the Congressional Black Caucus, founding member of the Congressional Consumer Justice Caucus, and belongs to more than a dozen other caucuses which focus on issues ranging from social inclusion to environmental protection. Representative Ellison will be signing copies of his book, My Country "Tis of Thee, at the conference. Aaron Mair first got involved in the Sierra Club movement in a successful campaign to shut down a solid waste incinerator in Albany, New York. Since 1999 and as President, he has worked to transform the Sierra Club into an organization dedicated to grassroots action, environmental justice, and inclusivity. "Envisioning a Cleaner Healthier Environment" is being sponsored by a grant from the University of Memphis Green Fee, with additional support from the Sierra Club, the Environmental Studies Program, the International Studies Program, the Department of Anthropology, the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy, the School of Public Health, the African and African American Studies Program, and the Center for Research on Women. Additional information, a complete conference schedule, and conference registration can be found online at . FOR IMMEDIATE RELASE Contact: Robert Marczynski October 20, 2015 Telephone: 901.678.3516 Email: marczyns@memphis.edu Department News Find out about fascinating research, upcoming events, speaker presentations, awards and more. Check out the list of Department Newsletters, Social Media and Blogs from the College of Arts &amp; Sciences. Accolades Learn more about the exciting research, engaged scholarship and world-class faculty in the College of Arts and Sciences. College of Arts and Sciences E-Files is the online news source for the College of Arts and Sciences. Visit the college website for more information on programs and degrees. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/6/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .