#http://www.memphis.edu/anthropology/people/katherine-lambert-pennington.php
Dr. A. Katherine Lambert-Pennington - Department of Anthropology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Student Life Resources People in the Department of Anthropology Faculty &amp; Staff Emeriti Faculty Faculty in Other Departments Part-time Instructors Student Directory Home Department of Anthropology People Dr. A. Katherine Lambert-Pennington Dr. A. Katherine Lambert-Pennington Associate Professor Phone 901.678.3328 Email almbrtpn@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2069 Office 302B Manning Hall, Memphis, TN 38152 Office Hours Call for Hours CV About Dr. Lambert-Pennington Dr. Katherine Lambert-Pennington is involved in local research that explores community-based models of development working with churches and other organizations in several low-income African-American neighborhoods in Memphis. She works with a team of faculty and students from the Anthropology, City and Regional Planning, and Architecture departments at the university along with neighborhood-level steering committees in South Memphis and Vance. These projects produced the South Memphis Revitalization Action Plan and the Vance Avenue Planning Framework. She is currently working on a book based on her research in La Perouse, Australia, which examines how changing racial ideologies, Aboriginal policies, and public perceptions of Aborigines have created a predicament of culture for urban indigenous people. Dr. Lambert-Pennington also currently serves as the Chair of the Engaged Scholarship Committee at the University of Memphis. Expertise and Interests Race and Social Inequality, Community Development, Identity Production, Food Access and Poverty, Participatory Action Research, Post-Colonialism, Human Rights, Urban Indigenous Culture and Identity in Australia, Qualitative Field Methods Research Projects Using participatory action research methodology, Dr. Lambert-Pennington and her team have involved over 1,000 residents in developing a holistic revitalization plan for the South Memphis and Vance neighborhoods to address their most pressing concerns. This work has resulted in community programs like the South Memphis Farmers Market and the Green Machine Mobile Food Bus. She is currently working with Dr. Kathryn Hicks and students in evaluating the South Memphis Farmers Market, exploring the role that farmer’s markets play in promoting neighborhood development, addressing food insecurity, and potentially contributing to improving residents’ health. She has also been involved with a collaborative study abroad program with the University of Catania in Sicily. Selected Publications 2013 Lambert-Pennington, Katherine, Engaged Pedagogy and Neighborhood Change in Higher Education , Diversity and Democracy, Vol 16(1): 28-29. 2012 Lambert-Pennington, Katherine, Real Blackfellas: Constructions and Meanings of Aboriginality in Urban Indigenous Australia. Transforming Anthropology 20(2): 131-145. 2011 Lambert-Pennington, Katherine, Kenneth Reardon, and Kenneth Robinson, Creating an Interdisciplinary Community Development Assistance Center: The South Memphis Revitalization Action Project, Michigan Journal of Community Service Learning 17(2): 59-70. 2010 Lambert-Pennington, Katherine, Practicing What We Preach: The Possibilities Of Participatory Action Research With Faith-Based Organizations, NAPA Bulletin , Special Issue On Faith-Based Development 33:143-160. 2010 Brondo, Keri Vacanti and Katherine Lambert-Pennington, “Coalition of Trust” or “Trust Me I Know What’s Best”: When Southern Progressivism Meets PAR-informed Engaged Scholarship. Urban Anthropology 39 (3-4): 1-41 . Selected Awards 2012 Tennessee Medical Association's Community Service Award for the South Memphis Revitalization Plan 2012 College of Arts and Sciences Professional Development Assignment 2011 Ernest Lynton Award for Early Career Scholars from New England Resource Center for Higher Education and the Coalition of Urban and Metropolitan Universities Courses Anthropology and Human Rights (ANTH 4415/6415) Culture Identity and Power (ANTH 4416/6416) Neighborhood Development and Social Entrepreneurship (ANTH 4412/6412) American Communities (ANTH 3282) Peoples and Cultures of the World (ANTH 3200) Anthropology and Education (ANTH 4015) Additional Resources White House Blog on Opening of South Memphis Farmers Market Channel 13 News Story: Fulltime Farmers Market to Open in South Memphis Smart City Blog on South Memphis Farmer's Market Commercial Appeal: Memphis Church Shepherds Farmers Farmers Market into Year Round Green Grocer Vance Avenue Collaborative Video Channel 5 News Story: Taking Back our Neighborhood: Vance Avenue Commercial Appeal: Memphis City Council Ponders Vance Avenue Options People in the Department of Anthropology Faculty &amp; Staff Emeriti Faculty Faculty in Other Departments Part-time Instructors Student Directory Undergrads: Declare Anthropology your major! Join the Graduate Program Learn about applied and engaged anthropology! News and Events Find out what's happening in the Department of Anthropology Contact Us Main office location and numbers, undergraduate and graduate advising Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .