#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/herff/mech.php
MECH - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions MECH (MECH) MECHANICAL ENGINEERING John I. Hochstein, Ph.D., Chair Room 312A, Engineering Science Building Jeffrey G. Marchetta, Ph.D. Coordinator of Undergraduate Studies jmarchtt@memphsis.edu A minimum grade of "C-" must be earned in all prerequisite courses before registering for a mechanical engineering (MECH) course. If a student withdraws or drops a class which is a corequisite for a laboratory course, then the student will be administratively dropped from the laboratory course. Undergraduate and graduate level engineering courses require an additional fee per credit hour. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: MECH 4990-98. Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering. (1-3). Topics are varied and in online class listings. MECH 1310 - Intro/Mechanical Engineering (2) Introduction to the profession, the design process, professional ethics, engineering communications, societal impact of the profession; acquisition, organization, display, and analysis of data for engineering application. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1710 or minumum score of 61 on the ALEKS Math Assessment. MECH 1312 - Mech Engr Computing I (2) Introduction to PC-based tools for engineering. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1710 or minumum score of 61 on the ALEKS Math Assessment. MECH 1314 - Mech Engr Computing II (2) Introduction to computer programming including application to linear algebra, probability, and statistics. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1720 or a minimum score of 76 on the ALEKS Math Assessment. MECH 1395 - Honors Studies (1) Participation in scholarly activities such as research and design programs within the college under the supervision of a faculty mentor. Successful completion requires the mentor's acceptance of a report documenting the student's accomplishments. Note: This course is intended for students in their first year of academic study and may be repeated for a maximum of 3 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: admission to the Honors Program. MECH 2316 - Engineering Design Comm I (2) Fundamentals of 3D modeling, drawing, general dimensioning and tolerances, blueprint reading, and generating drawings. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1720 or trigonometry equivalent. MECH 2318 - Engr Design Communication (4) Fundamentals of 3D modeling, drawing, general dimensioning and tolerances, blueprint reading, and generating drawings; design of mechanical components and simple functional mechanical systems using 3D computer aided design models. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1720 or MATH 1730. MECH 2332 - Dynamics (3) Kinematics and kinetics of particles and rigid bodies. PREREQUISITE: MATH 2110 and either CIVL 2131 or BIOM 2810. MECH 2395 - Honors Studies (1) Participation in scholarly activities such as research and design programs within the college under the supervision of a faculty mentor. Successful completion requires the mentor's acceptance of a report documenting the student's accomplishments. Note: This course is intended for students in their second year of academic study and may be repeated for a maximum of 3 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: Admission to the Honors Program. MECH 3301 - Engineering Analysis (3) Mechanical Engineering applications of first and second order ordinary differential equations, Laplace transforms, and Fourier series to problems in the areas of heat transfer, vibrations, and fluid mechanics. PREREQUISITE: MATH 2110. MECH 3310 - Intro to Thermal Systems (3) Introduction to First and Second Laws of Thermodynamics and to heat transfer with particular emphasis on engineering applications. Mechanical Engineering majors may not use MECH 3310 to fulfill B.S.M.E. degree requirements. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1920. MECH 3311 - Engineering Thermodynamics I (3) Laws of thermodynamics and their applications to engineering problems. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1920. MECH 3312 - Engineering Thermodynamics II (3) Applications of thermodynamics laws; emphasis of real gases, real gas mixtures, Maxwell Equations, combustion, gas cycles and vapor cycles and psychometrics. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3311, MATH 2110. MECH 3316 - Engineering Design Comm II (2) Design of mechanical components and simple functional mechanical systems using 3D computer aided design models including rapid prototype realization. PREREQUSITE: MECH 2316. MECH 3320 - Engineering Materials (3) Nature of six main classes of materials: metals, polymers and elastomers, ceramics and glasses, semiconductors, superconductors and composites; mechanical, thermal, electrical and electronic, magnetic and optical properties of materials; environmental effects on performance of materials: creep, corrosion, oxidation; methodology for selection of materials for named applications. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 1110. MECH 3321 - Mechanics of Machines (3) Velocity and acceleration analysis of linkages and mechanisms; force analysis of linkages and mechanisms and machinery such as IC engines; dynamic balance of rotors and reciprocating masses. PREREQUISITE: MECH 2332 and MATH 3120. MECH 3322 - Mechanics of Materials (3) (Same as CIVL 3322). Analysis of components subjected to tension, compression, bending moment, torque; combined loading; Mohr's stress circle; deflection of beams; simple treatment of column buckling. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 2131 or BIOM 2810. MECH 3323 - Machine Design (3) Methodology and practice in designing machine components by integrating principles from mechanics of materials, and theories of static and fatigue failures. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3322 and either MECH 3316 or MECH 2318. MECH 3325 - Materials Laboratory (1) Materials testing and evaluation. Three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3322. COREQUISITE: MECH 3320. MECH 3331 - Fluid Mechanics (3) Statics and dynamics of fluids; including application to pipe flow and open channel flow. PREREQUISITE: MECH 2332 or BIOM 2810 and MATH 3120. MECH 3335 - Fluid Mechanics Lab (1) Principles of fluid mechanics are demonstrated and verified; familiarization with instrumentation and techniques in organizing and reporting results of experimental investigations; design of experiments. Three laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: MECH 3331. MECH 3341 - Numerical/Statistical Methods (3) Engineering methods, classical analysis, computer techniques, probability, statistics and their interactions with mechanical engineering problems. PREREQUISITE: MECH 1314 and MATH 3120. MECH 3351 - Heat Transfer I (3) Fundamentals of conduction, convection, and radiation heat transfer with emphasis on engineering applications. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3331. MECH 3355 - Thermo/Heat Transfer Lab (1) Instrumental and measurement techniques used in thermodynamics and heat transfer studies; experimental verification of basic principles with emphasis on organizing and reporting of results; design of experiments. Three laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: MECH 3351. MECH 3395 - Honors Studies (1) Participation in scholarly activities such as research and design programs within the college under the supervision of a faculty mentor. Successful completion requires the mentor's acceptance of a report documenting the student's accomplishments. Note: This course is intended for students in their third year of academic study and may be repeated for a maximum of 3 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: admission to the Honors Program. MECH 4300 - Prep/Professional Practice (2) A capstone course to prepare students for the transition from academic studies to professional practice. Topics include: engineering ethics, lifelong learning, societal impact of engineering decisions, contemporary issues, and preparation for the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination. Students are encouraged to take the FE during the semester in which they are enrolled in this course. Passing a Simulated FE is required to pass this course. PREREQUISITE: MECH 4314. MECH 4305 - Fluid Mechanics II (3) Introduction to various topics in advanced fluid mechanics, including: flow over immersed bodies; compressible fluid flow; turbomachinery; measurements in fluid mechanics; and, inviscid flow. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3331. MECH 4309 - Gas Dynamics (3) Concepts in compressible flow, including topics such as isentropic flow, varying area flow, normal and oblique shockwaves, Fanno flow,and Rayleigh flow. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3312, 3331. MECH 4312 - Power Generation (3) Application of thermodynamics, fluid mechanics and heat transfer to design and operation of power plants; economic operation of power generation, optimization of resources, and alternate energy systems. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3312. MECH 4313 - Heat Transfer II (3) Principles of boiling, condensation, and radiation heat transfer; fundamentals of heat exchanger design. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3351. MECH 4314 - Senior Design I (3) Capstone course that simulates the real world design process. Students work in project teams to determine solutions to an open-ended engineering problem; use technical writing and communication skills to produce a project plan; prepare a preliminary design report and review. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3351, MECH 3323, MECH 3320. MECH 4315 - Principles of HVAC Systems (3) Psychometric analysis, heating and cooling loads of buildings and analysis of air conditioning systems. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3351. MECH 4319 - Engineering Econ/Project Mgmt (2) Introduction to project planning, project management, and engineering economics including financial impact of decisions. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3341. MECH 4320 - Mechanics of Materials II (3) Stress-strain analyses of thin-walled cylinders and spheres, springs, laterally loaded struts, struts with initial curvature, rotating disks and cylinders; plastic yielding of beams and shafts; introduction to energy methods. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3320, 3322. MECH 4322 - System Dynamics (3) Introduction to vibrations of one-degree and two-degrees-of-freedom systems. Introduction to controls with emphasis on Laplace transform, block diagrams, first-and-second-order systems, basic controllers, and stability of systems. Design and modeling of mechanical control systems. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3321. MECH 4323 - Senior Design II (3) Continuation of Senior Design I. Students refine their design, fabricate a functional prototype, produce a final report, and give an oral presentation. PREREQUISITE: MECH 4314. MECH 4324 - Computer Methods in Design (3) Application of computer aided drafting packages to design of mechanical components and systems. Introduction to fundamental concepts and principles of finite element methods and design optimization. Design project assignments using computerized engineering software for analysis and design solution. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3323, 3341. MECH 4325 - Adv Mech Materials (3) Beams on elastic foundations, experimental stress analysis, torsion of non-circular sections, curved beam theory, unsymmetrical bending. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3322. MECH 4326 - Biomedical System Analys/Mech (3) Introduction to concepts used in analyzing living systems. Simulation of body functions with mechanical and computer models. Familiarization with design of mechanical bioengineering devices such as heart valves, heart-lung machines, renal dialysis machines. PREREQUISITE: MECH 2332, 3322. MECH 4330 - Intro Composite Materials (3) Introduction to fiber reinforced composite materials. Includes mechanical behavior, strength, design methodology, and implementation of computer aided design. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3320, 3322, 3341. MECH 4331 - Turbomachinery (3) Basic principles of fluid mechanics and thermodynamics as applied to rotating machinery; ideal and actual operating characteristics of pumps, fans, turbines and compressors; design of real systems. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3331. MECH 4333 - Aerospace Propulsion Syst (3) Fundamentals of air breathing and rocket propulsion devices; principles of combustion thermodynamics, gas turbine operation, solid and liquid propellants, performance evaluation, and atmospheric and space mission propulsion requirements. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3331. MECH 4335 - System Dynamics Lab (1) Experiments in vibrations and feedback control systems with experimental verification of theory in system dynamics studies. Three laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: MECH 4322. MECH 4337 - Internal Combustion Engines (3) Principles of Otto and Diesel cycle engines; effects of various fuels and fuel delivery systems, air induction systems, ignition systems, and pollution control techniques on engine performance. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3312, 3331. MECH 4339 - Appld Computational Fluid Dyna (3) Introduction to fundamental mathematical models and computational methods for simulating the physics of fluid flow and heat transfer; identify limitation of simulation approach, recognize sources of error, evaluation of solution quality. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3341, 3351. MECH 4340 - Manufacturing Processes (3) Introduction to manufacturing processes: fundamentals of mechanical behavior of materials, manufacturing properties of materials; casting, bulk deformation, sheet metal forming, material removal processes; processing of polymers, ceramics and glasses, composite materials; powder metallurgy; fastening and joining processes; nontraditional manufacturing processes; economics of integrated design and manufacturing; recent developments in manufacturing. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3320, 3322. MECH 4342 - Intro/Packaging Engineering (3) Fundamental study of functions of packaging, packaging material, container type, processes, technology and equipment employed to protect goods during handling, shipping and storage. MECH 4344 - Mechanical Controls (3) Fundamental classical control concepts; modeling of linear mechanical control systems; transient, accuracy and performance analyses and design of control systems using root locus sketch, Nyquist diagrams and Bode plots. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3321. MECH 4345 - Design of Mechanisms (3) Graphical and analytical mechanism synthesis techniques for path generation, function generation, rigid body guidance and optimization of force transmission characteristics. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3321, 3323. MECH 4346 - Adv Mechanical Controls (3) Advanced design and modeling of mechanical control systems; review of digital and optimal control systems and simulation of control systems. PREREQUISITE: MECH 4344. MECH 4350 - Principles of Biomechanics (4) Biomechanics of tissues and structures of musculosketetal system; biomechanics of all joints; applications of statics, mechanics, linear viscoelasticity. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3320, 3322. MECH 4360 - Selection of Engr Materials (3) Detailed study of main classes of materials and their properties and uses; design criteria for various failure modes and selected environment case studies, technical tutorials and design exercises. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3320, 3322. MECH 4365 - Biomaterials (4) (Same as BIOM 4730). Biocompatibility and biofunctionality; materials for bone and joint replacement; materials for the cardiovascular system; materials and artificial organs; dental restorative materials; materials for drug delivery; materials for ophthalmology. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3320, 3322. MECH 4369 - Process Engineering (3) Application of fundamental principles of fluid mechanics, heat transfer, and thermodynamics to the analysis and design, fabrication and construction of process equipment and facilities which include physical and/or chemical transformations. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3351. MECH 4371 - Mechanical Vibrations (3) Kinematics of harmonic and non-harmonic vibrations; system of one and several degrees of freedom, free and forced vibrations; self-excited vibrations. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3321. MECH 4383 - Nondestructive Test I (3) Visual and optical methods; radiographic methods; ultrasonic testing; acoustic emission; magnetic methods; eddy current method; penetrant testing; standards, training and certification issues; case studies; projects. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3320, 3323, 3341. MECH 4384 - Nondestructive Test II (3) Nuclear radiographic methods; acoustic and dynamic techniques; magnetic resonance testing; volatile liquid testing; thin layer chromatography; thermoplastic stress analysis; research techniques; case studies; projects. PREREQUISITE: MECH 4383 MECH 4391 - Mechanical Engineering Proj (1-3) Independent investigation of mechanical engineering problems in consultation with instructor. PREREQUISITE: senior standing. MECH 4393 - Appld Finite Element Analysis (3) (Same as BIOM 4393). Fundamental topics associated with use of finite element analysis in mechanical and biomedical engineering applications; introduction to finite element theory, model generation, CAD interfacing, post-processing of results and validation. PREREQUISITE: BIOM 2810 or MECH 3322. MECH 4395 - Honors Thesis Proposal (3) Scholarly work in engineering requires advanced understanding in a particular field of study as well as the foundation in fundamental principles provided by the undergraduate curriculum. The student will work with an Honors Thesis advisor to identify a suitable thesis topic and to develop the advanced understanding required for scholarly study of that topic. A formal written and oral proposal must be accepted by the departmental honors committee for the successful completion of this course. PREREQUISITE: senior standing and approval by the departmental honors committee. MECH 4396 - Honors Thesis (3) Original scholarly work is performed under the direction of an Honors Thesis advisor and reported in a thesis. Successful completion of this course requires an oral defense of the thesis and acceptance of the thesis by the departmental honors committee. PREREQUISITE: MECH 4395 and approval by the departmental honors committee. MECH 4397 - Mechanical Engr Practicum (1) Preparation for professional practice through experiential learning under the supervision of an experienced engineer with oversight by a member of the department's faculty. Student's must work a minimum of 10 hours, and no more than 20 hours per week. Regular reporting throughout course required. Maximum repeat for 3 hours credit, but student may not enroll in MECH 4397 for more than 1 credit hour per semester. Cannot be taken concurrently with ENGR 4001. PREREQUISITE: departmental approval. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .