#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/about/board.php
Board of Directors - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About About Board of Directors Meet the Staff Contact Us Mission &amp; Vision FAQs Manuals &amp; Forms Awards of Excellence Home UMAA About Board of Directors National Alumni Association Executive Board of Directors August 2015 - June 2016 National Executive Officers Kim Barnett (BA '95, EMBA '99) President Director of CTCE, Southwest Tennessee Community College; Ret. Sr. Manager, FedEx Kim, Association Life Member, is serving his ninth year on the National Board. He was the president of the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics Alumni Chapter from 2005-06. Barnett is a retired senior manager at FedEx and is the current Director of CTCE at Southwest Tennessee Community College. He and his wife, Phyllis, have two children. Anita Vaughn (BA '77, MPA '82) Past President CEO, Baptist Memorial Hospital for Women Anita, Association Life Member, is serving her eighth year on the National Board. She was named as Outstanding Alumna of the College of Arts &amp; Sciences in 2005. Vaughn and her husband, James, also an Association Life Member, have one son. She has worked in the Baptist Health Care system for 40 years and is currently administrator and Chief Executive Officer of Baptist Memorial Hospital for Women. Greg Siskin (BBA '85, MBA '00) Vice President for Finances President, Ultimate Dental Greg, Association Life Member, is serving his third year on the National Board. He has been a loyal University of Memphis sports fan his whole life. He is on the board of the Cooperate Relationship Board for the American Association of Endodontic. Greg is president of Ultimate Dental, which is a sponsor of the Penny Hardaway Basketball classic. He and his wife have two children. Wei Chen (IMBA '98) Vice President for Communication Founder and CEO, Sunshine Enterprise, Inc. Wei, Association Annual Member, is serving his seventh year on the National Board. Chen received the Fogelman College of Business’s Entrepreneur of the Year Award in 2008. He is the founder and CEO of Sunshine Enterprise Inc., a Memphis-based multinational corporation that manages logistics and manufacturing operations in the U.S. and in China. Chen met his wife, Isabell (MS ’98, PhD ’01), while pursuing his IMBA. They are the parents of three young children. Karimeh McDaniel (BA '02) Vice President for Membership Former First Vice President, Raymond James &amp; Associates Karimeh, Association Life Member, is serving her third year on the National Board. She was the former First Vice President at Raymond James &amp; Associates. Karimeh has been very active in the Alumni Association as a founding member of the Young Alumni Committee and co-founder of the group's True Blue 5k. As a student at the UofM, she was Student Government president and a Student Ambassador Board member. Karimeh and her husband, Spencer, also a Life Member, have two children. The Honorable Butch Childers (BBA '71, JD '74) Vice President for Programs and Events Circuit Court Judge, State of Tennessee Robert “Butch” Childers, Association Life Member, is serving his ninth year on the National Board. In 2002, he received the University's highest honor, the Distinguished Alumnus Award. Childers and his wife, Amy Amundsen (JD ’87), also an Association Life Member, are both on the board of the Law Alumni Chapter, where Childers served as co-chair of the Grand Opening Gala for the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law and Amundsen served as gala speakers committee co-chair. He is a Shelby County Circuit Court judge. National Executive Board of Directors Terms Expire 6/30/2016 Andrew Bailey (BBA '00, EMBA '05) Manager of Content Strategy &amp; Curation, FedEx Services Andrew, Association Life Member, is serving his third year on the National Board. Drew is the former marketing principal and the current manager of content strategy &amp; curation at FedEx Services. He was named the 2010 Distinguished Young Alumnus for the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics Alumni Chapter. Drew is the Vice President Imeritus of the Luther C. McClellan Alumni Chapter and is a guest professor with the College of Business. During his time as a student at the UofM, Drew served as Student Government and Student Ambassador Board President, Student Activities Council Vice President, and Mr. UofM. He and his wife, Melody, have three children. Dana Gabrion (BA '98) Executive Producer, America's Next Top Model; Owner, Talbot Heirs Guesthouse Dana, Association Life Member, is serving her fifth year on the National Board of Directors. Dana is currently the co-executive producer of the TV show America’s Next Top Model. She also has worked on various film and television projects including The Rainmaker , MTV’s Sports and Music Festival II , The Sweetest Thing , and Scream III . Aside from her entertainment career, Dana is also the proprietor of the Talbot Heirs Guesthouse in Memphis. She was the recipient of the 2011 Outstanding Young Alumna Award. Dana currently resides in Venice, CA. Ron Hart (BBA '81, MBA '83) Managing Director, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney *Atlanta, GA Ron, Association Life Member, is serving his fifth year on the National Board. Ron is a nationally recognized financial advisor with Morgan Stanley Smith Barney. He is a syndicated columnist whose work appears in 30 newspapers weekly, appears on CNN, and has been quoted in numerous publications. He is also the author of the book There is No Such Thing as a Pretty Good Alligator Wrestler . Mr. Hart was the recipient of the 2010 Distinguished Alumnus Award. Ron and his wife, Jackie (BN ’88), live in Atlanta, GA. Terms Expire 6/30/2017 John Bomer (BBA '72) Former President, Consolidated Steamship Agency *Houston, TX John Bomer, Association and M Club Life Member, is serving his second year on the National Board. Bomer is a consultant for Intermarine, LLC., the largest independent project shipping operation in the United States. He was formerly partner and president of Consolidated Steamship Agency. Bomer was awarded the 2013 Outstanding Alumnus Award from the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics. He attended University of Memphis on a football scholarship and was drafted by the Dallas Cowboys in 1971. He and his wife Elizabeth, also a UofM alumna, reside in Houston, TX. Jim Dean (BSET '80) President, Busch Gardens Tampa and Adventure Island *Tampa, FL Jim Dean, Association Member, is serving his second year on the National Board. Dean is president of Busch Gardens Tampa and Adventure Island. He formerly held positions as Chief Financial Officer at Sea World and Vice President of Accounting at Anheuser-Busch. Jim also serves on the board for the Tampa Bay &amp; Company (Tampa Bay’s regional convention and visitor bureau), Tampa Bay Partnership (regional economic development committee), The Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce, Tampa Innovation Alliance, and the Boys and Girls Clubs of Tampa Bay. He received the 2012 Outstanding Alumnus Award from the Herff College of Engineering. Summer Owens ( BBA '01) President and founder, S.O. What! LLC; Founder and Executive Director, S.O. What! Foundation Summer Owens, Association Life Member, is serving her second year on the National Board. Owens is president and founder of S.O. What! LLC and founder and executive director of the S.O. What! Foundation. Summer was recognized by the University of Memphis Alumni Association as Outstanding Young Alumni in 2013. Summer is a motivational speaker and author of the book Life After Birth: A Memoir of Survival and Success as a Teenage Mother , developed to help people eliminate judgment and excuses of all types and live life to their greatest potential. Summer was named one of the “Top 40 under 40” by the Memphis Business Journal and received the Tri-State Defender’s Women of Excellence award and the Women of Achievement Heroism Award. She was recognized as a Fogelman College of Business and Economics Outstanding Young Alumna. Her story has been featured on national television, as well as in The Commercial Appeal and Memphis Parent Magazine. Robert Stephens (BSEE '90) Vice President, Capgemini US LLC *Houston, TX Robert Stephens, Association Life Member, is serving his second year on the National Board. Stephens is currently a Vice President with Capgemini US LLC. He serves as the North American Head for Oil &amp; Gas and is the Managing Executive for the Greater Houston Area. Robert was recognized by the University of Memphis Alumni Association as Outstanding Young Alumni in 2006. He and his wife, Pam, currently reside in Sugar Land, TX. Robert has created an endowed scholarship in the Herff College of Engineering and is a former president of the Houston Alumni Club. Terms Expire 6/30/2018 Darrell T. Cobbins (MBA '07) President, Universal Commercial Real Estate, LLC Cobbins serves as President of Universal Commercial Real Estate, LLC, a commercial real estate firm he founded in 2007. He was the 2013 Chairman of the New Memphis Institute, one of Memphis' most important civic organizations for leadership and talent development and retention. Darrell recently accepted the responsibility as one of 12 local business leaders on the Steering Committee for the 'Regional Economic Development Business Plan' in partnership with The Brookings Institution, City of Memphis Government, and Shelby County Government to develop a long-range strategic business model for the Memphis Region. Darrell was recently appointed to the Board of Directors of the Greater Memphis Chamber of Commerce. Toni Boland-Evans (BA '93) Manager of Global Community Impact, NIKE Boland-Evans has been with NIKE for 19 years and is the Manager of Global Community Impact in Memphis. As a student, she was a New Student Orientation Guide and a Resident Advisor. Toni and her husband, David, live in Memphis. John Lawrence (BA '94, MS '98) Manager, Strategic Economic Development Planning, Edge John, Association Life Member, became a member of the National Board in 2010. Lawrence has a long-standing tradition of supporting the UofM in his family, as his father, John (BS ’70), was president of the National Board and has served the University for decades. John is the third generation of UofM graduates, as his grandfather, John (Law ’38), is also an alumnus. John previously served as the Acting Director for Livable Memphis. He and his wife have a son. John Yarbrough (BS '72) Lambuth Designee Former Executive Director of the West Tennessee Rehabilitation Center Yarbrough (BS '72 Lambuth College) formerly served as Executive Director of the West Tennessee Rehabilitation Center of West Tennessee Healthcare for 36 years. During his career he served in many capacities for the Tennessee Physical Therapy Association including President and also served as delegate and in the Chapter of Presidents of the American Physical Therapy Association. John was inducted into the TPTA Hall of Fame in 2013 and has been twice awarded Alumnus of the Year. He is presently retired but still finds time to work as a physical therapist at West Tennessee Healthcare. John has served as President of the Lambuth Alumni Chapter in the Jackson, TN area. Advisors to the Executive Director Renee DeGutis (BS '83) Personal Accountant; Professional Development Specialist, Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics Renee, Association Life Member, is serving her eleventh year on the National Board. As a former Color Guard member of the Mighty Sound of the South, DeGutis says the Band Alumni Chapter holds a special place in her heart; she is an active volunteer on that board. She currently works with the Fogelman College of Business at the University of Memphis. Paul Jewell (BA '78) Retired Marketing Director, The Commercial Appeal Paul, Association Annual Member, is past vice president for communication and is serving his ninth year on the National Board as Advisor to the Executive Director. He is also on the Journalism Alumni Club’s board of directors after having served as president of that group. Jewell is the director of marketing for The Commercial Appeal . Mark Long (BSEE '85) Past President Owner, Holliday Flowers, Inc. Mark, Association Life Member, is past president of the University of Memphis Alumni Association National Executive Board of Directors. He is serving his twelfth year on the board. Long and his wife, Judy (BSEd ’74), own Holliday Flowers and have two sons and daughters-in-law who have all attended the UofM. Deanie Parker (BPS '77, MPA '88) Past President Retired President &amp; CEO, Soulsville Deanie, Association Life Member, is past president of the University of Memphis Alumni Association National Executive Board of Directors. She is serving her ninth year on the National Board. She was the 2006 recipient of the University’s Distinguished Alumna Award. Parker is the retired CEO of Soulsville (Stax Museum of American Soul Music) and was instrumental in organizing the "50 Years of Soul" celebration. She is executive director of the Emmy-winning film project I Am a Man . Eric Robertson (BA '03) President, CommunityLIFT Eric, Association Annual Member and former president of the College of Arts &amp; Sciences Alumni Chapter, is serving his sixth year on the National Board. He is the president of CommunityLIFT and very involved in the Memphis community, including having graduated from the Leadership Memphis Executive Program. Robertson received the 2007 Arts &amp; Sciences Alumni Chapter Outstanding Alumnus Award. Jim Strickland (BBA '86, JD '89) Attorney/Partner, Kustoff &amp; Strickland, PLLC.; Memphis City Council Chairman Jim, Association Life Member, is serving his eighth year on the National Board. He was elected to the Memphis City Council in 2007 and is an attorney/partner with Kustoff &amp; Strickland. Strickland and his wife, Melyne, have two children. Dr. Robert Wright (BS '77) Professor, Chair of Prosthodontics, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill *Chapel Hill, NC Dr. Robert Wright, Association Life Member, is serving his eleventh year on the National Board. Dr. Wright is the director of Advanced Graduate Prosthodontics at the Harvard School of Dental Medicine. To contact the National Executive Board of Directors, please email alumniassociation@memphis.edu . View Past Presidents of the National Executive Board of Directors About Board of Directors Meet the Staff Contact Us Mission &amp; Vision FAQs Manuals &amp; Forms Awards of Excellence Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/17/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .