#http://www.memphis.edu/univcoll/online/startumonline.php
UM Online Courses - University College - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University College About Undergraduate Graduate Resources Online Home University College Online UM Online Courses UM Online Courses UM Online degree programs are developed by University of Memphis faculty for University of Memphis students. Our online courses provide flexibility and portability, so wherever you can make a high speed internet connection, you can access your class and the many resources available to you as a student at a major university. Most UM Online courses are asynchronous, so that you can "attend" class at any time. However, some courses may have synchronous components that require you to be online at a particular day and time, or you may be required to attend an on-campus orientation. Be sure to read ALL FOOTNOTES when enrolling in online classes so you will know exactly what is required . How do I register for a UM Online course? The University of Memphis offers over 500 online courses which can be easily identified by the section number and instructional method in the course schedule. Registration for all online courses is completed through the same process as any other course. Access your my.memphis account and use the student tab to complete registration functions. UM Online courses are sections 41x, and M5x. Ex. BIOL 2010-M50 UM Online Instructional Method I registered for an online course. What do I do now? If you registered for a UM Online course, please read over the following steps to get prepared for class. Be sure your University of Memphis e-mail account is active well before the semester starts. If your email account is not active, log into your my.memphis account and click on the "Initialize Your Account" link or call 901-678-8888 for assistance. UM Online books and materials are available through the University of Memphis online bookstore. Students are responsible for having their textbooks by their first assignment. Failure to obtain your book on time is not an acceptable excuse for missed assignments. Check your memphis.edu email account at least the week before classes begin. You will likely receive important emails pertinent to the start of the semester. Where do I go to class? UM Online courses (other than * RODP courses ) are delivered through our eCourseware site. We strongly recommend all online students review our course software guides before the start of the semester. When the semester starts, you may log-in directly to your courses at eCourseware , or log-in via my.memphis and click the eCourseware link on the eCampus Student tab. eCourseware ID Your eCourseware ID is the first part of your university email address. Example: If your email address is jsmith2@memphis.edu, your UUID will be jsmith2 eCourseware password Your password is the same as your UofM e-mail or myMemphis account password. If you have technical difficulties accessing your course (logging in, timing out, using your course tools) call the Help Desk at 901-678-8888 or go to the Helpdesk to submit a service request. * RODP online courses (R01, R25 and R50 sections) are delivered via . Please go to our RODP information page for steps to access RODP courses. Request More Information Complete our online form for additional degree information. Online Appointments Academic Advising is available in-person, by phone and web conference. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .