#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/acct/2015FACCT3110M50.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus ACCT 31 10m50 Int ermediate Accounting I Fall Term , 2015 3.0 Credit Hours (Last updated: 8 / 20 / 2015) Instructor: James Lukawitz PhD CPA Phone : 901.678. 3030 E - mail: jlukawtz@memphis.edu Office: FCBE # 226 Office Hours: Monday & Wednesday 12 : 30 - 2:15pm and 3:45 - 5:00 and by appointment Course Overview : Intermediate Accounting I is an in - depth study in specific subjects in accounting. Subject matters covered will be the accounting cycle, accounting theory and concepts, the income statement, the balance sheet, and the statement of retained earnings, future and p resent value, cash, receivables . Intermediate Accounting is the only course in which you have an in - depth treatment of the subjects which are tested heavily on the CPA exam. A thorough knowledge of Intermediate Accounting I is critical to having a good underst an ding of financial accounting. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: A CCT 2010 Fundamentals of A ccounting I Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : Spiceland et al., Intermediate Accounting, McGraw - Hill, 8th Edition, Connect to accompany the text. Most assignments are to be completed online within Connect, a web - based assignment and assessment platform. With Connect Accounting, I will deliver assignments online. You will be given opportunities to practice important skills at your own pace and on your own schedule. With Connect Accounting Plus, you also get 24/7 online access to an eBook an online edition of the text. Connect comes free with all new copies of the textbook purchased through the University bookstore and many other sources. A n access code is included that you wi ll need to register with p. 2 used text or a new text from certain other sources, it will not include Connect and you will need access code does not need to include the eBook (It can be C onnect and not Connect Plus). Use the code to register at the site below: Follow these instructions to register with your section and Connect: Go to the following Web address and click the "register now" button: Online Section: m/class/j - luk awitz - fall - 2015 If you need help with Connect, here are three sources : ( 800 ) 331 - 5094, option 2 Student video tutorials for help embedded within Connect Location of Course Materials : This is a fully online course and all course materials (lectures, discussion topics, news, etc.) are located on the eCourseware web site . The Internet class home page is located in eCourseware at: . This page contains all the instructions for this class. To log on, you need your University of Memphis UUID and password. If you have trouble logging on, first try to see if you can fix the problem. If not, call 678 - 8888 or go to Computer Services on the first floor of the Administrative building. Once logged on and at the Course Homepage, go to Course Content . To successfull y Read the chapter. While reading, take notes of the important items covered. Pay particular attention to the learning objectives listed at the beginning of the chapter. Rework examples in the chapter to make sure you understand the concepts covered. Expect to spend 3 hours per chapter reading. Answer the Quizzes . Quizzes are attached to the 7 chapters in eCourseware . Be sure to pay attention to the schedule because the quiz questions will open and close at the approximate times the chapters are covered. You will have two opportunities to take each quiz. Incorrect answers are listed after the quiz is submitted, and the highest score is recorded. The quizzes have stated start and end dates and will not be available after the end date! All quizzes are due by 11:59 pm on the due date. You should be able to find the answers to all quiz questions in the text, but you may use any legitimate source in doing so. However, do not collaborate with any other person. Do your own work! Watch and download PowerPoint Tutorials from the course Content and print. The slides should be reviewed and added to your notebook. Your noteb ook should contain the printed slides, notes, and problem solutions by chapter. The notebook will assist you with reviewing and preparing for the midterm and final exams. To download, simply click on the file name and select Open or Save. You can save t o jump drive or your computer. To print the file: p. 3 1. Open the file in PowerPoint. DO NOT CLICK THE PRINT ICON ON THE TASK BAR. 2. From the menu bar at the top of the screen, click on File. 3. On the drop - down menu, select Print. 4. Next to Print What: Select Handout and either 3 or 6 per page . 5. Click OK to print Solve Assignments in Connect. Open the Connect website, log in and select the current chapter. Go first to the PRACTICE SET for the chapter. Work a minimum of 5 problems. You should print the problem and s olve it on paper. You can input the answers on Connect having difficulty solving the problem, submit it. This will allow you to see the answer and work the problem out correctly. Once you have worked the practice problems, open the required problems in Connect and solve them. You may work the problems as many times as you like up until the close date. The highest grade will be used. The problems selected are algorithmic (each time they are w orked, there will be different numbers). All of the required assignment problems are also included in the practice assignment problems except the numbers are different. Expect to spend 2 3 hours working each Solve the Project for the chapter from the Course Content and save it to your computer and read the instructions. Solve the problem using the spreadsheet. When you have completed the spreadsheet, uplo ad it to the indicated DROPBOX in eCourseware. If you are having difficulty completing the problem, see if there is a narrated slide offering tips, find the practice problem in Connect like the project and work it out, and go to Discussions to find assist ance from your classmates or from me. Please try these approaches before emailing me with questions . Interact in the Discussion Area. eCourseware contains a DISCUSSION AREA with which you should become familiar and use frequently. The discussion area is a means of contacting other students in the class and is an appropriate place to discuss homework problems, ask non - personal questions, etc. I will be monitoring the discussion board every day and will intervene with comments and corrections as necessar y. I encourage you to help your classmates if you know the answer to their question. It is not appropriate to share entire solutions here. For more information, go to the Discussions heading under Grading belo w: Course Objectives : After completing this course you should: 1. Be able to record a variety of basic accounting events. 2. Be able to prepare fundamental financial reports. 3. Understand some basic roles of financial information in capital markets. 4. Apply problem - solving skills to concepts covered in this course. p. 4 Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with th e overall learning objectives as a student in the BBA ACCT p rogram : Student's Expectations of the Professor : In my role as your instructor, there are certain things you can expect from me including: well - organized and engaging learning experience, r esponse to emails within ONE business day, and feedba ck on all work submitted within 3 - 5 calendar days. Grading and Evaluation Criteria Over the semester, you will have a variety of opportunities to earn points towards your final (overall) letter grade in this course. This section of the syllabus describes the assessed w ork you will be doing and how overall (final) letter grades will be computed. Final Course Grades Your grade this semester will be determined on the basis of the total points you earn: Exam 1 5 0 points Exam 2 100 points Exam 3 100 points Exam 4 5 0 points Exam 5 1 00 points Final Exam (comprehensive) 2 00 points Learn Smart 70 points Quizzes 3 points Excel Projects 35 points Required Assignments 70 points Total 8 10 points Percentage Letter Grade 100% - 90% A 89.9% - 80% B 79.9% - 70% C 69.9% - 60% D Below 60% F The grading scale applied to the points for the course represents the guaranteed minimum number of points required to earn any given grade. For example, if you accumulat e 729 points (90% of 810 may o stu dents earning less than 729 points. I will not curve individual assignments and exams. Any adjustments to the grading scale will occur at the end of the course based on overall performance of the class and subject to judgment of the instructor. p. 5 ** The total of the f ive exams must be 36 0 points (60%) or above to pass! If not, you will earn an F in the course REGARDLESS of the total point s earned ! This is one of three sections of ACCT 3110 offered with identical course requirements. Final grades will be awarded consistently across all sections. Periodic Exams The five periodic exams during the semester will test your knowledge and understanding of t he material in the chapters indicated. These exams will consist of multiple - choice questions primarily problems similar to the homework exercises and problems ; other conceptual questions may be included . All of the exams are timed. Although you will have your study materials available to you, because the exams are timed to assume you know the material, you will be unsuccessful if you rely on your study materials. Prepare as if you were in a classroom without the aid of those materials. You will not h ave time to look up answers you do not know. Final Exam The final exam will cover all chapters. The questions will be approximately evenly divided between "conceptual questions" and numerical problems with multiple choice solutions. Learn Smart You are r equired to work the LearnSmart assignment for each chapter. LearnSmart selects questions based on how familiar you are with the material. If you have not read the chapter, you will spend a lot more time on LearnSmart and may even be stopped by the progra m and told to go review the chapter! To spend a reasonable amount of time on LearnSmart, you should not try to work it without reading! The LearnSmart assignments are worth 10 points each. Quizzes There is a quiz attached to each of the 7 chapters in Connect . Each set of questions is worth 5 points (for a total of 35 points). Be sure to pay attention to the schedule because the quiz questions will open and close at the approximate times the chapters are covered. You will have two opportunities to ta ke each quiz. Incorrect answers are listed after the quiz is submitted, and the highest score is recorded. The quizzes have stated start and end dates and will not be available after the end date! All quizzes are due by 11:59 pm on the due date. You shou ld be able to find the answers to all quiz questions in the text, but you may use any legitimate source in doing so. However, do not collaborate with any other person. Do your own work! p. 6 Projects Projects consist of Excel spreadsheet problems from the bo ok that are to be downloaded from Course Content for each chapter. Projects ar e listed under eCourseware for 5 of the 7 chapters. The projects should be uploaded to the dropbox by the due date. Projects will not be graded until after the dropbox closes ; do not email them to me! All projects are due by 11:59 pm on the due date. Each project counts 5 points for a total 35 possible Project points. Required Assignments (homework) I will use the highest assignment will cou nt 1 0 points for a total of 70 for the 7 chapters. Tentative Schedule Since this is an on - line class, this is my recommendation Of when you should do the items listed Date Chapter Week 1 Chapter 1; Environment and Theoretical Structure of Financial Accounting Week 2 Chapter 1; Environment and Theoretical Structure of Financial Accounting Exam 1 (on 9 - 5/6) 9/6 Last day to drop without a grade of W Week 3 Week 4 9/19 Chapter 2; Review of the Accounting Process Chapter 2; Review of the Accounting Process Exam 2 (on 9 - 19/21) Week 5 Week 6 Week 7 Chapter 3; The Balance Sheet and Financial Disclosures Chapter 3; The Balance Sheet and Financial Disclosures Chapter 4; The Income Statement and Statement of Cash Flows Fall break October 10 to 13 10/14 10/16 Chapter 4; The Income Statement and Statement of Cash Flows Last day to drop class with grade of W p. 7 EXAM 3 OCTOBER 17/18 Week 8 Week 9 10/31 Wk 10 Wk 11 Chapter 5; Income Measurement and Profitability Analysis Chapter 5; Income Measurement and Profitability Analysis Exam 4 OCTOBER 31 - NOVEMBER 1 Chapter 6; Time Value of Money Concepts Chapter 6; Time Value of Money Concepts Wk 12 Wk 13 Chapter 7; Cash and Receivables Chapter 7; Cash and Receivables NOVEMBER 25 - 29 Thanksgiving Break Exam 5 NOVEMBER 28 TO NOVEMBER 30 Final Exam Schedule Final exam is comprehensive , available 12:00am 12 / 3 to 11:59pm 12 / 5 . 12 0 minutes timed on Connect! Begin only when 12 0 minutes have been set aside! Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all o fficial course correspondence through this email account. ability to receive incoming mail in a timely tion, etc.) Adding / Dropping : I f you have questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to th is page on the . Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. Note that using a Solutions Manual is considered c heating. Should your professor have evidence that using a Solutions Manual has occurred, he/she may take steps Office of Student Conduct website . If you have p. 8 any questio ns about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance