#http://www.memphis.edu/anthropology/people/ross-sackett.php
Ross Sackett - Department of Anthropology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Student Life Resources People in the Department of Anthropology Faculty &amp; Staff Emeriti Faculty Faculty in Other Departments Part-time Instructors Student Directory Home Department of Anthropology People Ross Sackett Dr. Ross Sackett Instructor Phone 901.678.1424 Email rsackett@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2069 Office 310 Manning Hall, Memphis, TN 38152 Office Hours Call for Hours Research Focus Ecological anthropology; environment and adaptive strategies; household economics; ecology and nutrition; South American Ethnography and World Ethnography; Latin America with special emphasis on the Andes and Amazonia; global cross-cultural and cultural-historical comparison Academic Summary Dr. Sackett earned his PhD from the University of California, Los Angeles, in 1996. He has been teaching in the Department of Anthropology at The University of Memphis as an adjunct since the 1980s. He has also taught at Rhodes College and the University of California, Los Angeles. Currently, he is an instructor in the Interdisciplinary Studies Program of the College of Arts and Sciences and primarily teaches courses in anthropology, as well as advises anthropology undergraduate students. Recent Publications Kiser, Laurel, Linda A. Bennett, Jerry Heston, Marilyn Paavola, Ross Sackett, and Constance Durbin. "Family Ritual and Routine: An Exploratory Study Comparing Clinical and Non-Clinical Families." Journal of Family Psychology, 2004. Finerman, Ruthbeth, and Ross Sackett. "Using Home Gardens to Decipher Health and Healing in the Andes." Medical Anthropology Quarterly 17, no. 4 (Dec. 2003): 459-482. Johnson, Allen, and Ross Sackett. "Direct Systematic Observation of Behavior." In Handbook of Methods in Cultural Anthropology, edited by H. Russell Bernard, 301-332. Beverly Hills, CA: AltaMira Press, 1998. Torun, Benjamin, Peter Davies, Barbara Livingstone, Michael Paolisso, Ross Sackett, and G.B. Spurr. "Energy Requirements and Dietary Energy Recommendations for Children and Adolescents 1-to-18 Years Old." European Journal of Clinical Nutrition 50 (1996): S37-S81. Finerman, Ruthbeth, and Ross Sackett. "Saraguros." In Encyclopedia of World Cultures, edited by David Levinson and Johannes Wilbert. New York: Macmillan, 1994. Paolisso, Michael Jeffrey, and Ross Sackett. Time Allocation Among the Irapa-Yukpa. Vol. 2, HRAF Comparative Time Allocation Series. New Haven, CT: Human Relations Area Files Press (HRAF), 1988. Research Projects Finerman, Ruthbeth, and Ross Sackett (Co PIs). Research on medical change and medicinal plant use, Ecuador, 2003. Finerman, Ruthbeth, and Ross Sackett (Co PIs). Research on healthcare of Andean elders, 1996-1998. Leadership Positions President, Mid-South Association of Professional Anthropologists, 1990-1991 Courses Taught at The University of Memphis ANTH 1100 Human Origins and Variation ANTH 1200 Cultural Anthropology ANTH 3111 Human Paleontology ANTH 3300 The Ascent to Civilization ANTH 3511 Culture, Kin, and Family ANTH 4010 Anthropological Methods of Field Research ANTH 4111-6111 Human Adaptations ANTH 4200-6200 Ecological Anthropology ANTH 4252-6252 Economic Anthropology ANTH 4541-6541 Nutritional Anthropology ANTH 7076-8076 Techniques of Anthropological Data Analysis People in the Department of Anthropology Faculty &amp; Staff Emeriti Faculty Faculty in Other Departments Part-time Instructors Student Directory Undergrads: Declare Anthropology your major! Join the Graduate Program Learn about applied and engaged anthropology! News and Events Find out what's happening in the Department of Anthropology Contact Us Main office location and numbers, undergraduate and graduate advising Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .