#http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/students/selfserv/parts.php
Parts of Term - Registrar - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty &amp; Staff Forms Students Students Enrollment Verification Grades Overview GPA and Grading Scale Grade Change Transcripts Overview Official Unofficial Lambuth University FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA Notification Release of Student Education Record Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Self Service Guides Home Registrar Students Parts of Term Parts of Term At the University of Memphis, the Academic Year is divided into three terms or semesters--Fall, Spring, and Summer. Each term consists of several Parts of Term (POT). When registering for a term, you may register for courses in any one or combination of the POTs. What are the differences between one POT and another? The primary differences between POTs have to do with POT lengths (starting and ending dates) and lengths of class periods. It's important to remember that the same course offered in any POT requires the same minimum amount of class time as when it is offered in another POT. Also, the credit is the same. Thus, HMSE 1100 taken in the Regents POT is the equal of HMSE 1100 taken in the Fall Full POT or the Spring 2nd Half POT, and so on. Some POTs--Regents, 1st Teacher, and 2nd Teacher--have a purpose of their own, so they are different from the other POTs in ways other than calendar days and meeting times. To understand the POTs better, please refer to the tables below. Fall/Spring POTs/Descriptions Full Is the longest POT, lasting the entire term. For example, a Spring Full begins in January and ends in late April or early May. 1st Half Begins when Full does but ends in the middle of Full (at the Fall or Spring mid-term break). Because 1st Half is half the length of Full, the class periods are longer than Full class periods. 2nd Half Is similar to 1st Half. However, 2nd Half begins after Full's mid-term break and ends when Full does. RODP (Regents) Parallels Full, although its starting and ending dates can be slightly different. The only courses offered in RODP are online courses that belong to the Regents Online Degree Program . However, RODP classes are open to all students: you do not have to be pursuing a Regents online degree in order to register for a RODP class. Summer POTs/Descriptions Pre Summer (Maymester) Is the shortest in calendar days but has the longest class periods. You might have to meet 3-4 hours a day, everyday, for one class in the Pre Session. The Pre Session starts after the Spring term has ended but usually ends before the Summer's 1st and Full POTs begin. Full Starts 2-3 weeks after the Spring semester and lasts the entire Summer term, ending just a few weeks before the Fall Term begins. Typically the Full POT begins in early June and ends in early August. 1st Half Runs concurrently with the first half of Full (June to early July). Because the 1st Half is half the length of Full, class periods are longer than Full class periods, or the class itself meets more frequently. 2nd Half Is similar to 1st Half but runs concurrently with the second half of Full (early July to mid-August). 1st Teacher Begins shortly after the school year for Memphis and Shelby county school teachers ends. Many of the offerings are aimed at teachers and prospective teachers who want to renew/obtain licensure or certification. 2nd Teacher Ends shortly before the new school year for Memphis and Shelby county school teachers begins. Again, any of the offerings are aimed at teachers and prospective teachers who want to renew/obtain licensure or certification. RODP (Regents) Parallels Full, although its starting and ending dates can be slightly different. The only courses offered in the RODP are online courses that belong to the Regents Online Degree Program . However, RODP classes are open to all students: you do not have to be pursuing a Regents online degree in order to register for a RODP class. Students Students Enrollment Verification Grades Overview GPA and Grading Scale Grade Change Transcripts Overview Official Unofficial Lambuth University FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA Notification Release of Student Education Record Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Self Service Guides Calendars Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams. Notice! Check for alerts and reminders. Contact Us Have questions? Need assistance or information? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .