#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/acct/2015FACCT3120M50.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus ACCT 31 2 0m50 Int ermediate Accounting I I Fall Term , 2015 3.0 Credit Hours (Last updated: 8 / 12 / 2015) Instructor: James Lukawitz PhD CPA Phone : 901.678. 3030 E - mail: jlukawtz@memphis.edu Office: FCBE # 226 Office Hours: Monday & Wednesday 12 : 30 - 2:15pm and 3:45 - 5:00 and by appointment Course Overview : Intermediate Accounting I I is an in - depth study in specific subjects in accounting. Subject matters cove red will be, cu rrent and long - term liabilities , leases, accounting for income taxes, pensions and post retirement benefits, shareholder s equity, share - based compensation, earnings per share, international reporting, and the statement of cash flows. Intermediate Accounting is the only course in w hich you have an in - depth treatment of the subjects which are tested heavily on the CPA exam. A thorough knowledge of Intermediate Accounting I I is critical to having a good understan ding of financial accounting. Pre - Requisites: A CCT 3110 Intermediate Accounting I Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : Spiceland et al., Intermediate Accounting, McGraw - Hill, 8th Edition, Connect to accompany the text. Most assignments are to be completed online within Connect, a web - based assignment and assessment pl atform. With Connect Accounting, I will deliver assignments online. You will be given opportunities to practice important skills at your own pace and on your own schedule. With Connect Accounting Plus, you also get 24/7 online access to an eBook an onlin e edition of the text. Connect comes free with all new copies of the textbook purchased through the University bookstore and many other sources. A n access code is included that you wi ll need to register with p. 2 used text or a new text from certain other sources, it will not include Connect and you will need to purchase an access code from the access code does not need to include the eBook (It can be C onnect and not Connect Plus). Use the code to register at the site below: Follow these instructions to register with your section and Con nect: Go to the following Web address and click the "register now" button: Online Section: m/class/j - lukawitz - fall2015intermediate2 If you need help with Connect, here are three sources: ( 800 ) 331 - 5094, option 2 Student video tutorials for help embedded within Connect Location of Course Materials : This is a fully online course and all course materials (lectures, discussion topics, news, etc.) are located on the eCourseware web site . The Internet class home page is located in eCourseware at: . This page contains all the instructions for this class. To log on, you need your University of Memphis UUID and password. If you have trouble logging on, first try to see if you can fix the problem. If not, call 678 - 8888 or go to Computer Services on the first floor of the Administrative building. Once logged on and at the Course Homepage, go to Course Content . To successfull y Read the chapter. While reading, take notes of the important items covered. Pay particular attention to the learning objectives listed at the beginning of the chapter. Rework examples in the chapter to make sure you understand the concepts covered. Expect to spend 3 hours per chapter reading. Answer the Quizzes . Quizzes are attached to the 7 chapters in eCourseware . Be sure to pay attention to the schedule because the quiz questions will open and close at the approximate times the chapters are covered. You will have two opportunities to take each quiz. Incorrect answers are listed after the quiz is submitted, and the highest score is recorded. The quizzes have stated start and end dates and will not be available after the end date! All quizzes are due by 11:59 pm on the due date. You should be able to find the answers to all quiz questions in the text, but you may use any legitimate source in doing so. However, do not collaborate with any other person. Do your own work! Watch and download PowerPoint Tutorials from the course Content and print. The slides should be reviewed and added to your notebook. Your noteb ook should contain the printed slides, notes, and problem solutions by chapter. The notebook will assist you with reviewing and preparing for the midterm and final exams. p. 3 To download, simply click on the file name and select Open or Save. You can save t o jump drive or your computer. To print the file: 1. Open the file in PowerPoint. DO NOT CLICK THE PRINT ICON ON THE TASK BAR. 2. From the menu bar at the top of the screen, click on File. 3. On the drop - down menu, select Print. 4. Next to Print What: Select Handout and either 3 or 6 per page . 5. Click OK to print Solve Assignments in Connect. Open the Connect website, log in and select the current chapter. Go first to the PRACTICE SET for the chapter. Work a minimum of 5 problems. You should print the problem and s olve it on paper. You can input the answers on Connect having difficulty solving the problem, submit it. This will allow you to see the answer and work the problem out correctly. Once you have worked the practice problems, open the required problems in Connect and solve them. You may work the problems as many times as you like up until the close date. The highest grade will be used. The problems selected are algorithmic (each time they are w orked, there will be different numbers). All of the required assignment problems are also included in the practice assignment problems except the numbers are different. Expect to spend 2 3 hours working each Solve the Project for the chapter from the Course Content and save it to your computer and read the instructions. Solve the problem using the spreadsheet. When you have completed the spreadsheet, uplo ad it to the indicated DROPBOX in eCourseware. If you are having difficulty completing the problem, see if there is a narrated slide offering tips, find the practice problem in Connect like the project and work it out, and go to Discussions to find assist ance from your classmates or from me. Please try these approaches before emailing me with questions . Interact in the Discussion Area. eCourseware contains a DISCUSSION AREA with which you should become familiar and use frequently. The discussion area is a means of contacting other students in the class and is an appropriate place to discuss homework problems, ask non - personal questions, etc. I will be monitoring the discussion board every day and will intervene with comments and corrections as necessar y. I encourage you to help your classmates if you know the answer to their question. It is not appropriate to share entire solutions here. For more information, go to the Discussions heading under Grading belo w: Course Objectives : After completing this course you should: 1. Define and account for the different types of current liabilities. p. 4 2. Account for notes and bonds issued at face value, at a discount or at a premium, r ecording interest using both the straight - line and effective interest methods. 3. Record al l transactions associated with both capital and operating leases by both the lessor and lessee. 4. D escribe the types of temporary differences that cause deferred tax assets and liabilities and record the amounts needed to record period ic income taxes. 5. R ecord for both pension plans and other post - retirement benefits, the period expense and funding as well as new gains and losses and ne w prior service cost as they occur. 6. D escribe the components of shareholder s equity and demonstrate how they are reported in a statement of shareholder s equity. 7. E xplain the basis of corporate dividends including the similarities and differences between cash, property and stock dividends. 8. Describe th e procedure to calculate earnings per share in both a simple and complex capital structure 9. Explain what treasury stock is and record all transactions involving treas ury stock. 10. Explain the major differences between U.S. GAAP and International (IFRS) standards. 11. Prepare a statement of cash flows using either the direct or indirect method. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with th e overall learning objectives as a student in the BBA ACCT p rogram : Student's Expectations of the Professor : In my role as your instructor, there are certain things you can expect from me including: well - organized and engaging learning experience, r esponse to emails within ONE business day, and feedba ck on all work submitted within 3 - 5 calendar days. Grading and Evaluation Criteria Over the semester, you will have a variety of opportunities to earn points towards your final (overall) letter grade in this course. This section of the syllabus describes the assessed work you will be doing and how overall (final) le tter grades will be computed. Final Course Grades Your grade this semester will be determined on the basis of the total points you earn: Exam 1 10 0 points Exam 2 100 points Exam 3 100 points Final Exam (comprehensive) 1 5 0 points Learn Smart 8 0 points Quizzes 40 points Excel Projects 20 points Required Assignments 100 points Discussions 15 points p. 5 Total 7 0 5 points Percentage Letter Grade 100% - 90% A 89.9% - 80% B 79.9% - 70% C 69.9% - 60% D Below 60% F The grading scale applied to the points for the course represents the guaranteed minimum number of points required to earn any given grade. For example, if you accumulat e 6 35 points (90% of 7 0 5 m ay o stu dents earning less than 6 35 points. I will not curve individual assignments and exams. Any adjustments to the grading scale will occur at the end of the course based on overall performance of the class and subject to judgment of the instructor. ** The total of the f our exams must be 270 points (60%) or above to pass! If not, you will earn an F in the course REGARDLESS of the total point s earned ! Periodic Exams The five periodic exams during the semester will test your knowledge and understanding of the material in the chapters indicated. These exams will consist of multiple - choice questions and problems. The multiple choice part of the exam is timed, while the problem part is not. Although you will have your study materials available to you, because the exams are timed to assume you know the material, you will be unsuccessful if you rely on your study materials. Prepare as if you were in a classroom without the aid of those materials. You will not have time to look up answers you do not know. Final Exam The fina l exam will cover all chapters , and will be completely multiple choice. It will be a timed exam. The questions will be approximately evenly divided between "conceptual question s" and numerical problems with multiple choice solutions. Learn Smart You are required to work the LearnSmart assignment for each chapter. LearnSmart selects questions based on how familiar you are with the material. If you have not read the chapter, yo u will spend a lot more time on LearnSmart and may even be stopped by the program and told to go review the chapter! To spend a reasonable amount of time on LearnSmart, you should not try to work it without reading! The LearnSmart assignments are worth 1 0 points each. p. 6 Quizzes There is a quiz attached to each of the 8 chapters in Connect . Each set of questions is worth 5 points (for a total of 40 points). Be sure to pay attention to the schedule because the quiz questions will open and close at the approximate times the chapters are covered. You will have two opportunities to take each quiz. Incorrect answers are listed after the quiz is submit ted, and the highest score is recorded. The quizzes have stated start and end dates and will not be available after the end date! All quizzes are due by 11:59 pm on the due date. You should be able to find the answers to all quiz questions in the text, bu t you may use any legitimate source in doing so. However, do not collaborate with any other person. Do your own work! Projects Projects consist of Excel spreadsheet problems from the book that are to be downloaded from Course Content for each chapter. Projects ar e listed under eCourseware . The projects should be uploaded to the dropbox by the due date. Projects will not be graded until after the dropbox closes ; do not email them to me! All projects are due by 11:59 pm on the du e dat e. Required Assignments (homework) I will use the highest grade you attain on each assignm ent. Tentative Schedule Since this is an on - line class, this is my recommendation Of when you should do the items listed Date Chapter Week1 Chapter 13: current liabilities and Contingencies Week 2 Chapter 14 ; Bonds and Long - term notes 9/6 Last day to drop without a grade of W Week 3 Week 4 Chapter 14; Bonds and Long - term notes Chapter 15 : Leases p. 7 Week 5 9/24 Week 6 Chapter 1 5 ; Leases EXAM 1 SEPTEMBER 24 TO SEPTEMBER 27 Chapter 1 6 ; Accounting for Income Taxes Week 7 Chapter 1 6 ; Accounting for Income taxes Fall break October 10 to 13 10/16 Last day to drop class with grade of W Week 8 Wk 9 Wk1 0 11/ 5 WK1 1 Chapter 1 7 ; Pension and other Postretire ment benefits Chapter 1 7 : Pension and other Postretirement benefits Chapter 1 8 ; Shareholder s equity EXAM 2 CHAPTERS 16, 17, 18; NOVEMBER 5 TO 8 Chapter 1 9 : Share based compensation and EPS Wk 1 2 WK 13 11/28 Chapter 21 ; Statement of cash flows , International reporting Chapter 21; State ment of cash flows; international reporting NOVEMBER 25 - 29 Thanksgiving Break Exam 4 NOVEMBER 28 TO NOVEMBER 30 Final Exam Schedule Final exam is comprehensive , available 12:00am 12 / 3 to 11:59pm 12 / 5 . 12 0 minutes timed on Connect! Begin only when 12 0 minutes have been set aside! p. 8 Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all o fficial course correspondence through this email account. ability to receive incoming mail in a timely tion, etc.) Adding / Dropping : I f you have questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to th is page on the . Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. Note that using a Solutions Manual is considered c heating. Should your professor have evidence that using a Solutions Manual has occurred, he/she may take steps Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questio ns about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance