#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/ccfa/thea.php
THEA Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning THEA Courses THEATRE (THEA) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: THEA 6210-19. Special Topics in Theatre. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in the online class listings. May be repeated for maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. THEA 7210-19–8210-19. Special Topics in Theatre. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in the online class listings. May be repeated for maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. THEA 6209 - Advanced Scenic Production (3) Processes and techniques employed by theatre technicians and designers in the design, planning, and construction of scenery, structures and effects; survey of theatrical scenery types and traditional methodologies for problem solving. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. THEA 6220 - Acting/Musical Theatre (3) Exploration of techniques that allow the performer to fuse the act of acting and singing. Two lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. Offered alternate years. PREREQUISITE: THEA 2532, MUAP 1100, MUAP 1610, or equivalency exam/audition and permission of instructor. THEA 6221 - Stage Dialects (3) Transcription for International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA). Voice and dialect technique for conveying dramatic intention and character. PREREQUISITE: permission of the instructor. THEA 6222 - Asian Theatre (3) History and theory of traditional and contemporary theatre forms of Asia, including study in cultural and social history. Offered alternate years. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. THEA 6223 - Musical Theatre Perform Prac (3) Study and practice in rehearsal and performance techniques in musical theatre production, including solo and group literature. Two lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. Offered alternate years. PREREQUISITE: THEA 4220, or permission of instructor. THEA 6224 - Principle/Music Theory/Theatre (3) Study of basic written music theory and aural skills to aid the comprehensive theatre professional. THEA 6455 - Directing Narrative Theatre (3) Directing techniques for staging literary texts not originally written for the theatre. Includes script adaptation of short stories, poetry, and non-fiction prose. Directing projects required. (Offered alternate years) PREREQUISITE: THEA 4521, or permission of instructor. THEA 6457 - Vocal Style/Performance (3) Exploration of language based characterization as it evolves from structure and style of text. PREREQUISITE: Permission of the instructor. THEA 6501 - Adv Movement Styles (3) Study in advanced physical theatre styles. Varied semester topics: solo performance, performance art; fighting styles for period weapons, physical theatre techniques for theatre teachers, choreographers and directors. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit when content varies. (Offered alternate years). PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. THEA 6503 - Creative Dramatics (3) Basic techniques and theories for the use of dramatization in elementary and secondary education; topics include socio-drama, dramatization of school subjects and daily concerns, and improvisation and creation of dramatic plays. (Offered alternate years). THEA 6514 - Theatre Renderng Technques (3) Rendering techniques for theatre and entertainment design. Materials and techniques for rendering theatrical space and scenic, costume, lighting, and properties design elements. Emphasis on pre-visualization strategies and portfolio preparation for the entertainment field. Offered alternate years. THEA 6515 - Scene Painting (3) Lecture laboratory course covering the techniques of painting scenery for the stage. Offered alternate years. THEA 6516 - Technical Direction (3) Lecture/laboratory for theatre technicians to include production organization and safety, engineering, rigging, materials control, and supply ordering. Offered alternate years. THEA 6531 - Acting Styles (3) Development of acting styles as influenced by environments of historical periods. May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours credit with change of course content. PREREQUISITE: Permission of the instructor. THEA 6532 - Mask Performance (3) Varied semester topics: Commedia dell'arte performance; creation and performance of the character mask; mask work based in physical theatre. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit when content varies. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. THEA 6548 - Musical Theatre History (3) Survey of the shaping forces, history, art and craft of American musical. (Offered alternate years) THEA 6549 - Theatre History (3) Shaping forces and theatrical forms from early civilization to the present time, with an emphasis on Western culture. Offered alternate years. THEA 6551 - Dramatic Literature I (3) Comprehensive survey of dramatic literature from the Greeks to the 20th century, with particular emphasis on problems of production. Offered alternate years. THEA 6552 - Dramatic Literature II (3) Comprehensive survey of dramatic literature from the 20th century to the present, with particular emphasis on problems of production. Offered alternate years. THEA 6554 - Visual History I (3) Design aesthetics of selected historical periods from ancient times through the Victorian era as applied to theatrical design. Offered alternate years. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. THEA 6555 - Scenic Technology (3) Lecture/laboratory using traditional and contemporary materials and scenic technologies including rigging, metals and welding, wood working, and plastics.Offered alternate years. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit with permission of instructor. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. THEA 6556 - Lighting Technolgy (3) Technical principles that support areas of theatrical lighting design; includes instrumentation and equipment, electricity and electronics, control systems, operation and maintenance principles and procedures for stage electricians. Offered alternate years. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit with permission of instructor. THEA 6557 - Costume Technology (3) Topics in costume construction techniques employing both traditional and experimental methods. Emphasis on professional entertainment portfolio development. Topics include: pattern and fit for the designer, dyeing, painting, and fabric modification costume crafts. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. THEA 6558 - Visual History II (3) Design aesthetics of selected historical periods from the Victorian era through the twentieth century as applied to theatrical design. Offered alternate years. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. THEA 6559 - Thea/African Diaspora (3) Exploration of selected playwrights and theatre practitioners of West and South African, Caribbean, and African American descent. Includes performance projects. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours when content varies. Offered alternate years. PREREQUISITE: Permission of the instructor. THEA 6571 - Playwriting (3) Theory and principles of writing plays for the stage; practice in writing either the short or long play. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours. Offered alternate years. THEA 6592 - Thtr Arch/Facilty Plan (3) Processes and techniques employed by theatre planners in design and construction/renovation of theatrical spaces and structures; includes survey of theatre forms, historical development of theatrical structures and spaces, programming methods and procedures, specification, renovation techniques, multi-use structure concepts, and consultation procedures and practices. Offered alternate years. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. THEA 6595 - Sound Technology (3) Technical principles that support areas of theatrical sound design; includes digital and analog equipment, audio signal theory and technologies, systems design, software, operational principles and procedures for theatrical sound engineers. Offered alternate years. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit with permission of instructor. THEA 6631 - Acting For Film And TV (3) Educational experience for the actor in the media of film and television. Offered alternate years. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. THEA 7440 - Sem Critial Studies (3) Advanced studies in theatre criticism, dramatic literature, and theatre history; methods of scholarly research appropriate for the dramaturg and producing artist; semester topics alternate among studies of selected authors, periods, genres, and theatre movements. Repeatable for a maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. Offered alternate years.PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. THEA 7521 - Stage Direction (3) Processes of stage direction from script interpretation to rehearsal and performance with emphasis on the collaborative interplay between stage director and designer; traditional and non-traditional theatrical modes; directing projects required. THEA 7526 - Directing Studio (3) Seminar/practicum investigation of advanced techniques of the stage director; styles of production, creative interpretation of established dramatic literature and/or creation of original work for the stage. Directing project required. Repeatable for a maximum of 9 hours. PREREQUISITE: THEA 7521. THEA 7553 - Styles Of Directing (3) Production styles and methodologies evidenced in art of major modern directorial innovators. Directing projects required. Repeatable for a maximum of 6 hours with permission of instructor. Offered alternate years. THEA 7554 - Seminar In Directing (3) Conceptual and practical studies in stage direction with emphasis on the collaborative interplay between stage director and actor. Directing projects required. Repeatable for a maximum of 6 hours with permission of instructor. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Offered alternate years. THEA 7560 - Studies Dsgn/Tech Prod (3) Individually supervised design and technical production projects in areas of scenery, costumes, lighting, and sound. Repeatable for a maximum of 9 hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. THEA 7561 - Scenic Design Studio (3) Studio explorations of creative design process and its relation to theatrical space and environment; emphasis on analysis, creative expression, and portfolio development involving two- and three-dimensional scenic design projects. Offered alternate years. THEA 7562 - Lighting Design Studio (3) Aesthetic principles and practical methodologies for design of lighting: expression of style in various theatrical forms and modes of production; includes research, criticism, project work. Offered alternate years. PREREQUISITES: THEA 6556 or permission of instructor. THEA 7563 - Costume Design Studio (3) Exploration/application of aesthetic principles and practical production concerns of costume design; special consideration to interpretation of dramatic text through design and fabrication, employing a variety of rendering processes in the studio environment. Emphasis on professional practice for the entertainment industry, and portfolio development. Offered alternate years. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. THEA 7564 - Thea Collab & Style (3) Exploration of elements of style as they pertain to concept development for theatrical production; engagement in dynamics of the collaborative process. THEA 7566 - Sound Design Studio (3) Seminar and practicum in the style and process of theatrical sound design. PREREQUISITE: THEA 6595 or permission of instructor. Offered alternate years. THEA 7571 - Advanced Playwriting (3) Continuation of theories and practice of playwriting with the objective of achieving a finished script, ready for production. May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours. Offered alternate years. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. THEA 7581 - Sem Drama Theory/Crit (3) Major documents in dramatic theory and criticism from Aristotle to present. Offered alternate years. THEA 7582 - Analysis Dramatic Lit (3) The dramatic text as basis for unified and purposeful production concept; advanced techniques of director and scenographer used to solve artistic/practical problems of specific plays. Offered alternate years. THEA 7592 - Theatre Plan & Mgmt (3) Principles of theatre planning and management for educational and regional theatres. THEA 7600 - Internship (1-6) Supervised work completed in a professional setting. Repeatable for a maximum of 6 hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of the advisory committee. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. THEA 7993 - Special Problems (1-3) THEA - Special Problems (1-3) Directed individual investigation of special research. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades A-F will be given. THEA 7995 - Production Practicum (3-6) Creative performance or production project suitable for public presentation and/or a practical application. Project to be determined in consultation with and directed by the student's supervisory committee. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. DANCE (DANC) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: DANC 6000-6029. Special Topics in Dance. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in the online class listings. May be repeated for maximum of 9 hours. DANC 6101 - Dance Repertory (3) Exploration of stylistic, technical, and expressive elements in rehearsal and performance; may include notated works, faculty, and guest artist choreography. May be repeated for maximum of 9 hours. (Offered alternate years). PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. DANC 6201 - Dance Composition (3) Investigation of movement sources and development of elements of choreographic craft; emphasis on solo and duet work. May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours with permission of instructor. (Offered alternate years). DANC 6202 - Adv Dance Composition (3) Continued investigation of movement sources and choreographic craft from concept development through rehearsal and performance; emphasis on group forms and working with music. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. (Offered alternate years). PREREQUISITE: DANC 6201 or permission of instructor. DANC 6301 - Directed Studies Dance (1-3) Individual study, research, or practicum. May be repeated for maximum of 12 hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. DANC 6402 - Dance Ed/Diverse Settng (3) Theory, methods, and materials for teaching Modern and Creative Dance in schools, dance studios, arts programs, and community settings; includes current research in aesthetic education and curriculum development. Offered alternate years. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .