#http://www.memphis.edu/indium/faculty-bowlin/
Gary Bowlin - INDIUM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. INDIUM Research Students Faculty Facilities Equipment Funding Home INDIUM Gary Bowlin Gary Bowlin Professor and Chair of Excellent Phone 901.678.2670 Email glbowlin@memphis.edu Fax Office Engineering Technology Building Room 119D Office Hours Call for hours Faculty Profile Google Scholar Profile Research Overview The Tissue Template Engineering and Regeneration Laboratory in the Biomedical Engineering department at the University of Memphis is comprised of a multidisciplinary team of engineers and scientists collaborating toward the ultimate goal of developing “ideal” engineered templates for the regeneration of a variety of functional tissues including blood vessels, bone, and cartilage to improve quality of life issues. The field of tissue engineering, under the broader umbrella of regenerative medicine is a multidisciplinary field founded upon the merging of basic principles and innovations from engineering, biology, medicine and life sciences for the enhancement, restoration or replacement of tissue/organ function. In general, this field combines cells and templates (a.k.a. scaffolds) as an artificial extracellular matrix (ECM) to maintain shape/form and more importantly, guide cellular responses and functionality in the design and fabrication of neo-tissues/organs. This basic hypothesis has been driven by the fact that every tissue or organ in the human body is composed of functional and support cells contained within an ECM (a nano-fabric composed primarily of collagens) to form a microenvironment. A great deal of the laboratory’s current focus is designing electrospun templates that can be used as acellular implants to guide and promote in situ regeneration and utilize/harness the ultimate bioreactor, the human body, to regenerate damaged or missing tissues/organs. This in situ regeneration will be guided/regulated by the innate immune response invoked immediately upon implantation. Our lab has shown that this response is a function of template composition and architecture. Dr. Gary Bowlin and colleagues have been pioneers and world-leaders in the electrospinning of nano-to-micro scale fibrous templates from biopolymers including collagen types I, II, III and IV, elastin, fibrinogen, gelatin, hemoglobin and myoglobin as well as synthetic, bioresorbable polymers (poly (glycolic acid), poly (lactic acid), polydioxanone and polycaprolactone), and various blends of all the above to utilize the strengths of each individual component in designing templates. Current Funding: Memphis Research Consortium “Novel Articular Cartilage Regeneration Template.” The major goal of this research is to evaluate a novel, electrospun cartilage regeneration template. Publications (2014 – 2015): Goonoo, N.; Bhaw-Luximon, A.; Rodriguez, I.A.; Wesner, D.; Schonherr, H.; Bowlin, G.L. and D. Jhurry. “Poly(ester-ether)s: III. Assessment of Cell Behaviour on Nanofibrous Scaffolds of PCL, PLLA and PDX Blended with Amorphous PMeDX.” J Mat. Chem. B, In Press. Rodriguez, I.A.; Saxena, G.; Sell, S.A. and G.L. Bowlin. “Mineralization and Characterization of Composite Lyophilized Gelatin Sponges Intended for Early Bone Regeneration.” Bioengineering, 1(1), 62-84, 2014. (Brand New Journal). Sheikh, F.A.; Macossay, J.; Cantu, T.; Zhang, X.; Hassan, M.S.; Salinas, M.E.; Farhangi, C.S.; Ahmad, H.; Kim, H.; and G.L. Bowlin. “Imaging, Spectroscopy, Mechanical, Alignment and Biocompatibility Studies of Electrospun Medical Grade Polyurethane (Carbothane™ 3575A) Nanofibers and Composite Nanofibers Containing Multiwalled Carbon Nanotubes.” J. Mech. Behav. Biomed. Mater., 41C, 189-198, 2014. (Impact Factor: 3.048) Xu, L.; Sheybani, N.; Ren, S.; Bowlin, G.L.; Yeudall, W.A. and H. Yang. “Semi-interpenetrating Network (sIPN) Co-electrospun Gelatin/Insulin Fiber Formulation for Transbuccal Insulin Delivery.” Pharmaceutical Research, 32, 275-285, 2015. (Impact Factor: 4.742) Maghdouri Moghaddam, Y.; Bowlin, G.L.; Lemmon, C.A. and D. Dréau. “Mammary Epithelial Cell Adhesion, Viability, and Infiltration on Blended or Coated Silk Fibroin-Collagen Type I Electrospun Scaffolds.” Materials Science and Engineering C, 43, 37-44, 2014. (Impact Factor: 2.596) Rodriguez, I.A.; Growney Kalaf, E.A.; Bowlin, G.L. and S.A. Sell. “Platelet-rich Plasma in Bone Regeneration: Engineering the Delivery for Improved Clinical Efficacy.” BioMed Research International, Vol. 2014, Article ID 392398, 15 pages, 2014. doi:10.1155/2014/392398 (Impact Factor: 2.880). Radic, M.Z. and G.L. Bowlin. “Innate Immunity Response to Tissue Engineering Templates: The Determinant.” Journal of Tissue Science and Engineering, 5:e129. Doi: 10.4172/2157-7552.1000e129, 2014. Invited Editorial (Impact Factor: 2.17) Yin, A.; Li, J.; Bowlin, G.L.; Li, D.; Rodriguez, I.A.; Wang, J.; Wu, T.; El-Hamshary, H.A.; Al-Deyab, S.S. and X. Mo. “Fabrication of Cell Penetration Enhanced Poly (L-lactic acid-co--caprolactone)/Silk Vascular Scaffolds Utilizing Air-impedance Electrospinning.” Colloids and Surfaces B: Biointerfaces, 120, 47-54, 2014. (Impact Factor: 3.554) Macossay, J.; Sheikh, F.A.; Cantu, T.; Eubanks, T.M.; Salinas, M.E.; Farhangi, C.S.; Ahmad, H.; Hassan, M.S.; Khil, M.; Maffi, S.K. and G.L. Bowlin. “Imaging, Spectroscopic, Mechanical, and Biocompatibility Studies of Electrospun Tecoflex® EG 80A Nanofibers and Composites Thereof Containing Multiwalled Carbon Nanotubes.” Applied Surface Science, 321, 205-213, 2014. (Impact Factor 2.538) Liu, S.; Wu, J.; Chen, D.S.; Bowlin, G.L.; Cao, L.; Lu, J.; Li, F. and C. Fan. “Osteochondral Regeneration Using an Oriented Nanofiber Yarn-collagen Type I/Hyaluronate Hybrid/TCP Biphasic Scaffold.” J Biomed Mater Res Part A, In Press, 2014. (Times Cited: 0; Impact Factor: 3.044) Ji, Y.L.; Liang, K.; Shen, X. and G.L. Bowlin. “Electrospinning and Characterization of Chitin Nanofibril/Polycaprolactone Nanocomposite Fiber Mats.” Carbohydrate Polymers, 101, 68-74, 2014. (Impact Factor: 3.463) Yoganarasimha, S.; Trahan, W.R.; Best, A.M.; Bowlin, G.L.; Kitten, T.O.; Moon, P.C. and P.A. Madurantakam. “Peracetic Acid: A Practical Agent for Sterilizing Heat-Labile Polymeric Tissue-Engineering Scaffolds.” Tissue Eng Part C Methods, 20(9), 714-23, 2014. (Impact Factor: 4.64) Goonoo, N.; Bhaw-Luximon, A.; Rodriguez, I.A.; Bowlin, G.L. and D. Jhurry. “Poly(ester-ether)s: I. Investigation of the Properties of Blend Films of Polydioxanone and Poly(methyl dioxanone).” Intl. J. Poly. Mat. Poly. Biomat., 63 (10), 527-37, 2014. (Impact Factor: 2.784) Goonoo, N.; Bhaw-Luximon, A.; Rodriguez, I.A.; Wesner, D.; Schonherr, H.; Bowlin, G.L. and D. Jhurry. “Poly(ester-ether)s: II. Properties of Electrospun Nanofibers from Polydioxanone and Poly(methyl dioxanone) Blends and Human Fibroblast Cellular Infiltration.” Biomat. Sci., 2 (3), 339-51, 2014. (Impact Factor: pending) Wu, J.L.; Huang, C.; Liu, W.; Yin, A.L.; Chen, W.M.; He, C.L.; Wang, H.S.; Liu, S.; Bowlin, G.L. and X.M. Mo. “Cell Infiltration and Vascularization in Porous Nanoyarn Scaffolds Prepared by Dynamic Liquid Electrospinning.” J. Biomed. Nanotech., 10 (4), 603-14, 2014. (Impact Factor: 5.256) McCool, J.M.; Rodriguez, I.; Sell, S.A.; Han, Y. and G.L. Bowlin. “A Preliminary Study on Amelogenin-loaded Electrospun Scaffolds.” Journal of Bioactive and Compatible Polymers, 29 (1), 32-49, 2014. (Impact Factor: 2.500) Yin, A; Bowlin, G.L. and X. Mo.“Cell Infiltration and Vascularization in Porous Nanoyarn Scaffolds Prepared by Dynamic Liquid Electrospinning" Journal of Biomedical Nanotechnology, 10 (4), 603-14, 2014. (Impact Factor: 4.216) Maghdouri Moghaddam, Y.; Elmore, L.W.; Bowlin, G.L. and Dréau. “Breast Epithelial Cell Infiltration in Enhanced Electrospun Silk Scaffolds.” Journal of Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine, In Press. (Impact Factor: 3.278) McClure, M.J.; Garg, K.; Simpson, D.G.; Ryan, J.J.; Sell, S.A.; Bowlin, G.L. and J.J. Ericksen. “The Influence of Platelet Rich Plasma on Myogenic Differentiation.” Journal of Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine, In Press. (Impact Factor: 3.278) Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .