#http://www.memphis.edu/anthropology/people/micah-trapp.php
Micah Trapp - Department of Anthropology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Student Life Resources People in the Department of Anthropology Faculty &amp; Staff Emeriti Faculty Faculty in Other Departments Part-time Instructors Student Directory Home Department of Anthropology People Micah Trapp Dr. Micah M. Trapp Assistant Professor Phone 901.678.4332 Email mmtrapp@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2069 Office 300 D. Manning Hall Office Hours Call for Appointment CV About Dr. Trapp Dr. Micah Trapp received her Ph.D. in anthropology from American University in 2011. Her dissertation research focused on transnational household economies, status, and the migratory experiences of Liberian refugees in light of the enduring impact of the American Colonization Society's settlement of Liberia. This research was conducted at the Buduburam Liberian refugee camp in Ghana and addressed the complex processes associated with the shifts from formal to informal aid in a long-term camp and the eventual UNHCR cessation clause of refugee status for Liberians. Dr. Trapp is currently writing about the gustatory subjectivities of Liberian refugees and the relationship between taste and the political position of the refugee. As an applied anthropologist, Dr. Trapp has worked for two refugee resettlement agencies in the US and has also worked on a USAID evaluation team. Expertise and Interests Refugees, migration, political economy of food, household food economies, humanitarianism, development, transnational class, and social inequality Research Projects In 2013, Dr. Trapp began conducting ethnographic research at grocery auctions in Southern Maryland and plans to extend this research in the Mid-South region. This research explores how vendors, auctioneers, and bidders re-construct the value of food in the secondary market. Dr. Trapp is also interested in situating this research within the broader distribution networks of our industrialized food system. As a grey economy, how do grocery auctions fit into the larger cycles of industrialized food consumption and waste? What possibilities exist for alternative economies? US Aid Advance A Cambodian Story Food and Nutrition for Refugees Selected Conference Presentations and Publications 2013 Trapp, Micah. From "Refugee Mansions" to Traveling Homes: How Transnational Constructions of Home Influence Migratory Decisions Among Liberian Refugees. International Association for the Study of Forced Migration Annual Conference. 2012 Trapp, Micah. Rice is Like Diamonds: Reconsidering Food (In)Security in Concept and Practice. American Anthropological Association Annual Meeting. 2012 Trapp, Micah. Solutions and Strategies: navigating refugee aid policy in a long-term camp. Society for Applied Anthropology Annual Meeting, Baltimore, MD. 2010 Trapp, Micah. What's on the Table: Nutrition Programming for Refugees in the United States North American Association for the Practice of Anthropology Bulletin, Special Theme Issue: Anthropological Perspectives on Migration and Health, Vol. 34. 2009 Trapp, Micah. Transnational Torborgi: tools and prospects for evaluating food insecurity in Liberia. Liberian Studies Association Annual Meeting, Monrovia, Liberia. Selected Awards 2009 National Science Foundation Doctoral Dissertation Improvement Grant 2008 American University College of Arts and Sciences Dissertation Research Fellowship Courses Cultural Anthropology (ANTH 1200) Nutritional Anthropology (ANTH 4541/6541) (co-instructor with Dr. Ross Sackett) Courses Taught Previously Developmental Anthropology (George Washington University) Contemporary Problems in Anthropological Perspective (University of Maryland Baltimore County) Anthropology of Food (UMBC) Additional Resources Farm Fresh Food Auction People in the Department of Anthropology Faculty &amp; Staff Emeriti Faculty Faculty in Other Departments Part-time Instructors Student Directory Undergrads: Declare Anthropology your major! Join the Graduate Program Learn about applied and engaged anthropology! News and Events Find out what's happening in the Department of Anthropology Contact Us Main office location and numbers, undergraduate and graduate advising Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .