#http://www.memphis.edu/bitm/about/
UofM - BIT - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Business Information and Technology Welcome About Admissions Programs Courses Faculty Research FCBE About Welcome Chair's Message Careers in BIT Advisory Council Home BIT About About BIT A Warm Welcome from the Department of Business Information and Technology! The Department of Business Information and Technology (BIT), with 17 full-time faculty members, is one of the stronger MIS departments in the country, ranked number 33 among BIT programs worldwide based on the number of research publications achieved in premier journal outlets. Dr. Robin Poston is the interim department chair and the department's degree offerings include the B.B.A. in MIS, the M.S.B.A. with a concentration in MIS, and the Ph.D. in Business with a concentration in MIS (which is the only MIS Ph.D. program in Tennessee). The department also participates in the Fogelman College's M.B.A., International M.B.A. and Executive M.B.A. programs. The BIT Department produces graduates who are prepared to enter a variety of information systems and technology management positions in modern business organizations. These include specialists in big-data business analytics, systems and business analysis, database and network administration, security analysis, software testing, and web design. The department faculty are eminently qualified to accomplish this, most have Ph.D.s from some of the top BIT departments in the country, and many have worked in senior IS positions in the business world. Among the department's professors are specialists in technology innovation, electronic commerce, systems development and testing, database management, and the management of information systems in contemporary organizations. The BIT Department is the home of the Systems Testing Excellence Program (STEP), which is the largest university-based research group in software testing in the world. STEP researchers from BIT collaborate with industry partners and the university's computer science and computer engineering faculty to conduct research on a broad range of software testing issues, offer research-based industry certification programs, and run an annual international research workshop at which the latest research in the field is presented. STEP was co-founded by its main corporate partner, FedEx, serving as its key research and training partner in software testing throughout the software development lifecycle (visit memphis.edu/step/ ). Among the Department's distinguished faculty members is Dr. Bill Kettinger, the department's FedEx Chair of Excellence in BIT, who is a senior editor of MIS Quarterly, which is one of the top two research journals in the MIS field and sees his role as serving "students and scholars in being all that they can be." Dr. Mark Gillenson with textbooks on database management and a leader of the MidSouth Chapter of the Data Management Association, who is the Fogelman College "Ranking Czar", head of certification programs for STEP, and co-developer of a new Graduate Certificate Program in Business Intelligence. Dr. Brian Janz who is the First Tennessee Professor of MIS and George Johnson Teaching Fellow and is focused on bringing design thinking and innovation concepts to Memphis, understanding the impact of IT in organizations, and improving teaching in traditional and online courses at Fogelman College. Dr. Judy Simon who brings experiential programs into class content as the departmental internship supervisor, works with PhD students, supervises our Business Information Assurance Certificate Program, and is the co-director of the University's Center for Information Assurance with grants from Department of Defense and National Science Foundation. Dr. Tom Stafford who has edited a dozen journal special issues of prominent MIS publications while serving two terms as Editor in Chief of Data Base for Advances in Information Systems, and a special issue of MIS Quarterly focused on measure development methodologies. Other scholars in the department include Dr. Wade Jackson, Dr. Jong Lee, Dr. Ted Lee, Dr. Robin Poston, Dr. Sandi Richardson, and Dr. Chen Zhang. Additional faculty support the department's Microsoft Office Specialist Certification for Excel 2010 which has seen a resurgence of interest recently, and is offered as a part of the MIS 2749 course, allowing students the opportunity to get 3 hours core credit for this class and also earn a certification. BIT faculty also support the Fogelman College Business Honors program and Peer Coaching in our classes. To view our brochure describing our certificate and degree programs in BIT, please click here. Dr. Robin Poston Papasan Family Professorship for Exemplary Leadership Professor Associate Professor and Interim Department Chair for BIT, University of Memphis Follow us and like us on facebook E-mail: rposton@memphis.edu Phone: 901-678-5739 Office Location: FAB 301A About Welcome Chair's Message Careers in BIT Advisory Council BIT News Publications, recognitions and spotlights about faculty and students of the BIT department. BIT Events Find out what's happening at the department and visit our weekly colloquium. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .