#http://www.memphis.edu/history/graduate/faqs_grad.php
Frequently Asked Questions for Graduate Students - Department of History - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of History Why History? Undergraduate Graduate Online Faculty HERC GAAAH Graduate Contact Grad Studies Director Guide Programs General Description MA Program PhD Program Focus Areas and Courses Scholarships Student Life Alumni Placement Forms and Applications FAQ Home Department of History Graduate Frequently Asked Questions for Graduate Students Frequently Asked Questions for Graduate Students What graduate degree can I get in History? How do I become a graduate History major? Do I need to have a B.A. in History to enter your M.A. program or an M.A. in History to enter your Ph.D. program? What GPA must I have to enter your program? What entrance examination requirement do you have? What kind of writing sample do you require for admission? Are there additional requirements for the admission of foreign students? What foreign-language requirements will I have to meet? How will I get advised as a History major? Will I have to meet with my advisor every semester? How many graduate History classes will I have to take to get a degree? How many graduate History classes may I take? I don't seek a graduate degree in History. May I take History courses anyway? May I audit a History class instead of taking it for credit? I don't qualify for admission to your graduate program at the moment. May I take History courses anyway? If I have earned graduate credits elsewhere, will I get credit for them if I transfer to your school? I can't take classes on your campus. Do you offer any alternatives? May I take Regents Online Degree Programs (RODP) courses? I have already been admitted to the graduate program and am trying to register in a History class, but the system tells me that the class is closed. Is there any way I can enroll in the class? What are your faculty members like? What student organizations do you have? What financial aid is available to me? If I do not choose to live elsewhere, does the university have housing for me and my family? I have lots of questions that aren't in this FAQ. Where can I find answers? What graduate degree can I get in History? At the graduate level we offer both the Master of Arts and the Doctor of Philosophy degrees. How do I become a graduate History major? If you are admitted to our graduate program, you are by definition majoring in History. If you want to concentrate in Egyptology, be aware, however, that acceptance into the department does not necessarily mean acceptance into the Egyptology program. Egyptology faculty must approve any new student wanting to take Egyptology as a concentration. Do I need to have a B.A. in History to enter your M.A. program or an M.A. in History to enter your Ph.D. program? Not necessarily, although these prior degrees are highly recommended. Students with a variety of backgrounds can excel in our programs. It is vital that an applicant's statement of purpose and writing sample demonstrate the qualities of critical thinking and argumentation that are at the heart of historical analysis. For admission to the M.A. program the department expects a minimum of 18 semester hours in undergraduate history courses from an accredited institution. We may make an exception for a student who has non-history courses sufficiently similar in content or methodology to history courses. For admission to the Ph.D. program the department expects a minimum of 24 graduate hours in history from an accredited institution. Although an M.A. in history is strongly recommended we will also consider an applicant who has an M.A. in a field other than history that is similar in content or methodology to history. What GPA must I have to enter your program? For M.A. admission, we require a minimum GPA of 3.0 on a 4-point scale in all undergraduate history courses, with a minimum of 18 semester hours in undergraduate history. For Ph.D. admission, we require a minimum GPA of 3.25 on a 4-point scale, with a minimum of 24 graduate hours of history from an accredited institution. What entrance examination requirement do you have? For M.A. admission, you must submit scores from the Graduate Record Examination or the Miller Analogies Test. We urge you to take the Graduate Record Examination, especially if you plan to work toward the Ph.D. degree. For Ph.D. admission, you must submit scores from the Graduate Record Examination. All test scores must be sent directly from the testing agency to Graduate Admissions, The University of Memphis, 100 Wilder Tower, Memphis, TN 38152. Test scores older than five years are generally not acceptable. We do not accept scores on MAT exams taken in less than 2-month intervals. What kind of writing sample do you require for admission? For M.A. admission, you must submit a writing sample, such as a paper from a course, that demonstrates your ability to write and think about history. In addition, you must submit a statement of purpose of at least 500 words, in which you should discuss your reasons for wanting to be in the history M.A. program, your major field(s) of interest, and anything else you can tell us about your interests in history. For Ph.D. admission, you must submit a writing sample, preferably a M.A. thesis, or, if this is not available, a major seminar paper, that demonstrates your ability to write and think about history. In addition, you must submit a 750-1000 word "Statement of Purpose," in which you should state your educational goals, anticipated fields of study, and general research interests. In this statement, we expect you to demonstrate familiarity with the Department of History's program and faculty and to discuss explicitly how particular faculty might be helpful to you academically. Are there additional requirements for the admission of foreign students? Yes. The Graduate School has several additional requirements for the admission of foreign students. It admits only students with the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree (16 years of formal schooling). It requires a non-refundable application and processing fee of sixty dollars U.S. (U.S. $60.00), evaluation of courses taken at foreign institutions, the Test of English as a Foreign Language, a health certificate, proof of medical insurance, evidence of financial support, and, for those who are applying for an assistantship, the Test of Spoken English. See t he requirements of the Graduate School . What foreign-language requirements will I have to meet? Requirements differ considerably for a concentration in Egyptology and other fields. For most fields, no foreign language is required for the M.A., but the M.A. in Egyptology requires either German or French. For the Ph.D. in most fields, you must demonstrate a reading proficiency in at least one non-English language as directly related to your dissertation field as possible, as determined by the dissertation director. This requirement is a minimum for all Ph.D. candidates — you must pass an examination in all languages (however many) that your Advisory Committee considers necessary for expertise in your primary area(s) of research. In most cases, students in U.S. history will need only one language, and usually it can be a language already studied. The Ph.D. in Egyptology requires both German and French, and students must take six credits of Middle Egyptian in the Art History Department or show they have successfully completed first-year Middle Egyptian elsewhere. How will I get advised as a graduate History major? The Director of Graduate Studies advises both M.A. and Ph.D. students. The Director of Graduate Studies is Dr Daniel Unowsky , 131 Mitchell Hall, 901.678.3385. Telephone or e-mail to make an appointment. Will I have to meet with my advisor every semester? Not every semester. But you must do so before you register for the first time, and at least once a year afterwards. This is necessary for you to obtain advising clearance from the Director of Graduate Studies in order to register. How many graduate History classes will I have to take to get a degree? For the M.A. it depends on whether or not you write a thesis. You must have a total of 33 credits if you decide not to write a thesis, and 30 credits if you write a thesis (24 credits of coursework, and 6 credits of thesis). For the Ph.D. you must have a minimum of 60 credits of regular graduate course work beyond the bachelor's degree, excluding dissertation credit (more than 60 hours may be required in some fields). You must have a minimum of 12 credits for the dissertation. You must distribute your credits over three fields. The minimums for these fields are difficult to explain in a few words, so please go to the section on Ph.D. fields in the Guide for Graduate Students. How many graduate History classes may I take? You may take as many History classes as you wish, but to receive a degree you must have some variety in the courses you take. For the M.A. program, you may not count more than 21 credits in a particular field toward the total of 30 or 33 hours required for the degree. For the Ph.D. program, at least one of your minor fields (minimum of 12 credits) must be in a geographical area different from that of your major field. I don't seek a graduate degree in History. May I take History courses anyway? Yes, if you have been admitted to the Graduate School you may take any graduate course for which you meet the pre-requisites. We often have students from other fields taking our courses. May I audit a History class instead of taking it for credit? Yes, if you are a registered student at The University of Memphis and you have the prior approval of the instructor and the department chair. Fees for audits will be assessed on the same basis as fees for credit courses. If you are a totally and permanently disabled Tennessee resident, incapacitated from working at an income-producing occupation, or a Tennessee resident 60 years or older, you may audit courses on a space-available basis without paying tuition charges. I don't qualify for admission to your graduate program at the moment. May I take History courses anyway? Students who do not meet all requirements of the program or applicants who apply too late for admission for a given semester are eligible to take courses as non-degree students. Up to 12 credits of this work may later be counted toward a graduate degree upon admission to a degree program. If I have earned graduate credits elsewhere, will I get credit for them if I transfer to your school? Yes, under certain conditions. For the M.A. degree, you may transfer a maximum of 12 semester hours of credit from another college or university, provided these credits are no more than 6 years old when you receive the M.A. degree and there can be no transfer of credit for grades less than B. For the Ph.D. degree, with the approval of your Advisory Committee you may count a maximum of 30 hours from your M.A. degree. (There are certain conditions for these credits for the Ph.D. that are difficult to state in a few words. Please refer to the section on transferring credits in the Guide for Graduate Students for a complete answer.) I can't take classes on your campus. Do you offer any alternatives? Yes, but the choices are somewhat limited. The online Master of Arts degree in history will enable students to complete all requirements for the degree online, but not all courses and not all fields of study listed in our graduate catalog are available online. Some of our courses that enroll both undergraduate and graduate students are taught at satellite campuses, usually during evening and weekend hours. But M.A. students are allowed only 6 credits (2 courses) of such courses (online M.A. students may take 9 credits at present) and Ph.D. students may take only 6 credits more. You may take a course through Study Abroad . For many years, Dr Dennis Laumann has taken a group of students to Ghana in the Ghana Study Abroad Program, which gives academic credit as well as cultural experience. From time to time, other courses are arranged, such as the one that Dr Laumann and Dr Daniel Unowsky conducted during the summer of 2009 in Germany, Poland, and the Czech Republic in connection with a study of genocide, Dr Laumann's study/tour of Brazil and Dr Peter Brand and Dr Suzanne Onstine's study/tour of Egypt in the summer of 2010. May I take Regents Online Degree Programs (RODP) courses? No. Regents courses are designed primarily for undergraduate students. There are a few graduate-level programs but there is not one in History. I have already been admitted to the graduate program and am trying to register in a History class, but the system tells me that the class is closed. Is there any way I can enroll in the class? Perhaps. If the class is closed because of heavy enrollment, the instructor may or may not be willing to accept more students. Some classes may be closed to students who do not meet the prerequisites for them and you may have to show that you do meet the requirements. You will find full instructions in a PDF form for requesting enrollment in a closed class . What are your faculty members like? The Department of History at The University of Memphis can give you good training. We have more than two dozen well-trained scholars with expertise in most time periods, regions of the world, and subject matter. All our full-time faculty members hold a doctorate degree. If you take courses that enroll both undergraduate and graduate students, they may be taught by teaching assistants or part-time instructors. All of our teaching assistants and part-time instructors are required to hold a master's degree; many of our part-time instructors hold a doctorate degree. Read about our faculty. What student organizations do you have? You will be associated with fine students. Both undergraduates and graduate students may join the Epsilon Nu chapter of Phi Alpha Theta, the national honorary organization for history. Graduate students must have a GPA of at least 3.5 on all courses completed for graduate credit and no failing grade on any course. Anyone is welcome to attend its pizza lunches, which are held several times a semester to hear presentations on historical subjects. All graduate students in history may become members of the Graduate History Association and the Graduate Association for African-American History. Graduate students in Egyptology may become members of the interdisciplinary Egyptology Graduate Student Association. What financial aid is available to me? The department has a limited number of assistantships, divided into grading and teaching assistantships. M.A. students normally apply for grading assistantships and Ph.D. students for teaching assistantships. Normally, grading assistants assist a professor in a large lecture section, attend the professor's lectures, grade examinations and papers, lead discussion sections, and consult with students. Teaching assistants normally grade for the first year that they have an assistantship and then teach one class the first semester of the second year. After that the normal assignment is to teach two sections of World Civilizations (History 1110 or 1120) or U.S. History (History 2010 or 2020) per semester. However, we are increasingly asking teaching assistants to grade after the first year, because we believe that doing so will leave much more time for their work. At present grading assistantships pay $7300 per academic year, plus all tuition and fees; teaching assistantships pay $8600, plus tuition and fees. In addition, in the recent past we have able to offer an additional stipend which came out on average to approximately $1000 per assistant because some assistants are eligible for government financial aid (not a loan, but pay for work as a graduate assistant), and we can spread out our savings to other assistants. In addition to assistantships, the department has several fellowships for Ph.D. students: the Ruth and Harry Woodbury Fellowship in Southern History, the Dr. William R. and Helen Lucille Gillaspie Scholarship in Latin American History, the Dr. Peggy Jemison Bodine Dissertation Fellowship, and the Belle McWilliams Dissertation Fellowship. The stipends vary from year to year because of changes in endowment earnings. Students who are ABD may apply to the department's Graduate Awards Committee for a Dissertation Research Grant for funding for research and travel that is specifically related to completing the dissertation. Annually, the department gives the Best Teaching Assistant Award and the Major L. Wilson Graduate Paper Prize for the best paper written in a departmental graduate course. Every two years, the department gives the Best Thesis and Best Dissertation Awards. The Graduate Awards Committee periodically gives the Best Prospectus Award. All of these carry small monetary awards. Beyond the department, graduate students may qualify for financial aid from the Graduate School or the federal government . If I do not choose to live elsewhere, does the university have housing for me and my family? The university has 150 apartments for graduates and married students, located about a mile south of the main campus. Read about the facilities offered by Residence Life . I have lots of questions that aren't in this FAQ. Where can I find answers? The information on our page for graduate students , especially the comprehensive Guide for Graduate Students , may be all you need. If you still have questions, send an e-mail message to Dr Daniel Unowsky , the Director of Graduate Studies — he will be glad to help you. Graduate Contact Grad Studies Director Guide Programs General Description MA Program PhD Program Focus Areas and Courses Scholarships Student Life Alumni Placement Forms and Applications FAQ History Happenings The department reports, as they occur, significant happenings that involve our faculty, students, staff, and alumni. Newsletter The department newsletter is filled with interesting articles and information about our award-winning faculty and students. Event Calendar Plan to attend events of historical interest. Contact Us Contact the Department of History at The University of Memphis. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .