#http://www.memphis.edu/uofmonline/Programs/bba_finance_irs.php
BBA in Finance - UofM Online - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UofM Online Programs Orientation Online Readiness Resources About AtoZ List Programs Undergraduate Graduate Home UofM Online Programs BBA in Finance BBA in Finance with a concentration in Real Estate The Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) offers the BBA in Finance degree with a concentration in Real Estate online. The degree requires at total of 120 credit hours and may be completed entirely online, or with a combination of online and on campus courses. A limited number of approved courses may be transferred from other institutions (see our undergraduate catalog for more information). Out-of-state students may be able to pay in-state tuition if they qualify. Details of the degree program are available here . The primary objective of the Finance degree program is to provide the basic concepts, principles and analytical tools essential for business decisions in the fields of finance.The curriculum is designed to provide a broad background for effective functioning within the discipline. The Real Estate Concentration is designed for students who desire careers in real estate and related industries. This may include mortgage banking, banking, real estate development, real estate investment, real estate valuation and assessment, government, as well as real estate sales and property management. The following FIR courses will be available online (as well as on campus) - FIR 3310 - Real Estate Principles FIR 3410 - Business Finance FIR 3720 - Financial Markets FIR 4310 - Real Estate Law FIR 4320 - Real Estate Finance FIR 4340 - Real Estate Appraisal FIR 4350 - Real Estate Investment FIR 4440 - Intermediate Managerial Finance These courses may also be used to obtain a Minor in Real Estate or a Professional Real Estate Certificate . Online classes are especially designed to have the same coverage, rigor, and follow the same time schedule as the University of Memphis. Each of these classes is offered a minimum of once a year on campus and once a year online. This degree program is offered through the Fogelman College of Business and Economics, which is fully accredited by the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), the premier accrediting body in business education. For more information on our online BBA in Finance with a concentration in Real Estate, please complete the form below: First Name Last Name Email address Phone number Mailing address City State Zip Highest degree attained Comments or questions Where did you hear about us? Programs Undergraduate Graduate UofM Online News University of Memphis Online Master's Program is Ranked Among the Best in Nation by ACO. UofM Online Undergraduate Programs Click to View the Fully Online Undergraduate Degree Programs offered at the University of Memphis UofM Online Graduate Programs Click to View the Fully Online Graduate Degree Programs offered at the University of Memphis Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .