#http://blogs.memphis.edu/libraries/category/specialcollections/
University of Memphis Libraries | Category | Special Collections Main menu Skip to content Home University of Memphis Libraries News and Events Search for: Category Archives: Special Collections News and Events Associated with Library Special Collections Mar 02 2015 The University Libraries Celebrates Women&#8217;s History Month 2015 Posted by jschnbel The University Libraries is pleased to participate in the U of M’s campus-wide celebration of Women’s History Month. See the full calendar of events here and visit the Libraries&#8217; Women&#8217;s and Gender Studies research guide for books, articles, web sites, videos, primary documents, and other resources about women&#8217;s history and feminist issues. In addition, we have created a special research guide featuring Tennessee women who dedicated their lives to activism and service and participated in national movements for equality. In honor of our new exhibition, “Woven Into Words: Tennessee Women Making History,” we will host a reception on Tuesday, March 3, 5:30-7:00 p.m. on the fourth floor of McWherter Library; Dr. Christine Eisel, Department of History, will share “Lessons Learned in the Archives.” Guests can explore several display cases which illustrate the impact of women like Roberta Church, Elizabeth Meriwether, Sister Hughetta Snowden, Cornelia Crenshaw, and Maxine Smith and highlight government documents relating to women’s suffrage and political history. Presented with the support of the Friends of the University Libraries. Then, on Wednesday, March 18, 11:30 a.m. , Jazmin Miller will present her original one-woman show, “The Journey of Truth,” about the life of abolitionist and activist Sojourner Truth in the rotunda of McWherter Library. Free and open to the public. In addition to attending programs, you can participate in Women&#8217;s History Month by responding to a writing prompt and/or recognizing a woman who has helped you weave your own story (submission sheets are also available in rotunda of McWherter Library). Posted in Events , Exhibition , Homepage , News , Special Collections , Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Dec 17 2014 Celebrating a successful semester! Posted by jschnbel The faculty and staff of the University Libraries wish you pleasant and relaxing Winter Break and a happy New Year! Congratulations to the December 2014 graduates and their families. For our interim hours, please click here . Don&#8217;t forget to visit our exhibition, &#8220; From Active Duty to Veteran: Honoring Military Service in America ,&#8221; on view in the rotunda and on the fourth floor of McWherter Library until January 16. The Libraries continues to encourage and support undergraduate research at the University of Memphis. This semester, the Libraries was part of two honors research forums taught by Dr. Pam Dennis and Cody Behles. Professor Dennis&#8217; class, &#8220;Surviving the Research Blues: A Historical Approach,&#8221; focused on local history and civil rights issues. The students consulted the Libraries&#8217; special collections and other primary resources to inform their final projects, which they presented at the December meeting of the West Tennessee Historical Society. Professor Behles introduced his students to issues concerning scholarly communication in the 21st century. The class spent time in the Memphis and Shelby County Room at the Memphis Public Library examining and mapping communication networks of Memphians throughout history. For more information about undergraduate research on campus, visit the web site of  QuaesitUM , a peer-reviewed annual publication that showcases students&#8217; work in all disciplines. Dr. Dennis and her UNHP 1100 students We&#8217;re pleased to announce we have subscribed to Browzine , an app which allows users to access our paid electronic periodical content through their mobile devices in a display that emulates physical bookshelves. Thank you to all across campus who participated in the trial; your feedback was appreciated. If you have not already, download the app and follow these instructions to start browsing the Libraries&#8217; collection of journals! Feel free to contact Cody Behles (cbehles@memphis.edu) with any questions. Finally, the University Libraries is thrilled to welcome Athena the tigress back to her home in front of McWherter Library.  Athena had been away receiving much needed repairs, and she returns to the University of Memphis as a powerful symbol of wisdom. We thank artist Pam Cobb and the Friends of the University Libraries for their generous support of her care. We look forward to serving our University of Memphis communities in 2015! Posted in Events , Exhibition , Homepage , News , Research and Instructional Services , Special Collections , Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Oct 07 2014 New Technology, Resources, and Programs Posted by jschnbel Emerging Technologies Librarian Cody Behles teaches students about 3D printing  Memphis Daily News , September 16, 2014 The University Libraries continues to connect our students with current technology to improve teaching and learning. We have added GoPro cameras (available to students for check out at Circulation) and a 3D printing lab (students can schedule a training session  here ) for the fall semester. Read more about the Libraries’ new devices in the Memphis Daily News . Great database news! University of Memphis students and faculty can use the Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Databases to conduct research across multiple business-related disciplines. Click here  for more information and to apply for a WRDS account. In addition, members the U of M community now have access to the biology module of the Journal of Visualized Experiments (JOVE) , the world&#8217;s first peer reviewed scientific video journal. The University Libraries recently acquired a collection of papers from the administration of Tennessee Governor Winfield Dunn (1971-1975). A selection of photographs, speeches, telegrams, and other materials will be on display on the first floor of McWherter Library until Tuesday, October 28. Researchers can also visit the free Internet Archive to read digitized oral histories of the Dunn administration conducted by Dr. Charles Crawford, Department of History. Join us in McWherter Library on Friday, October 17, 2:30 p.m. for the first presentation in our new University Libraries’ Faculty/Staff Research Seminar series! Historian and librarian Dr. Mark Danley will share his research on strategic thought and the history of books and reading in the eighteenth-century British army. Free and open to the public. On Tuesday, November 11, 5:30-7:00 p.m . the Friends of the University Libraries will present a special Veterans Day reception and lecture on the fourth floor of McWherter to coincide with the exhibition, “From Active Duty to Veteran: Honoring Military Service in America” (on view November 3-January 16). Dr. Mark Danley will speak on “War, Peace, History, and Memory: Military Service in the American Experience.” Free and open to the public. For additional Veterans Day events on campus, click  here . Thank you to all who attended our Banned Books Week events and visited the display in the rotunda. In case you missed it, you can view our Facebook photos here.  A special shout-out to our friends in the Loewenberg School of Nursing for allowing Professor Bones to participate! Posted in Events , Exhibition , Homepage , News , Research and Instructional Services , Special Collections , Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Aug 26 2014 A Warm Welcome from the University Libraries! Posted by jschnbel L-R: Kayron Newman, Lucille Freeman, Bess Robinson, Dr. Sylverna Ford (Dean), Dr. Pam Dennis, and Frankie Perry The faculty and staff in the University Libraries are pleased to welcome you back to campus! We look forward to supporting your research, answering your questions, and offering you a comfortable and stimulating learning environment. Our Fall Semester hours for all branches are posted here , and we will resume   online chat hours beginning September 2. In addition to our collection of more than 1.4 million books and e-books, 10 million manuscripts, 10,000+ periodicals, more than 300 databases , and over 600,000 government documents , we are happy to announce new and upcoming programs and services. To reserve spaces and sign up for most workshops and events in the Libraries, you can now use this  link ! Highlights include: RefWorks Training Workshops:  Learn how to manage your citations and format your paper and bibliography. Full schedule available here . 3D Printing Lab: Students, sign up for a ten-minute training session in the library and you&#8217;ll be ready to print in 3D for free! New Technology: Students can use the new touch-screen monitors in the Fishbowl and in the Learning Commons. Faculty members and students can reserve the Fishbowl for groups of 9-25  here . Coming soon&#8230;GoPro cameras! The Center for Writing and Communication (CWC):  The Libraries welcomes Dr. Will Duffy and his talented team of tutors to the first floor of McWherter Library. Now, when you come to the library for research help, you can also polish your writing, editing, and oral communication skills. For more information and to schedule an appointment, please visit the CWC  web site . &#8220;From Active Duty to Veteran: Honoring Military Service in America&#8221;:  The University Libraries will present an exhibition of diaries, letters, photographs, and ephemera from the Preservation and Special Collections department along with Government Publications which tell powerful stories of Americans who served in the armed forces.  Displays will be on view November 3-January 16  in the rotunda and on the fourth floor. Accompanying public programs will be announced shortly. Grab lunch or an espresso  from Einstein&#8217;s and hang out in McWherter Library. We&#8217;re here to help make your semester a success! Follow us on Facebook and Twitter for the latest program and collection updates, awesome photos from Special Collections, helpful research tips, and more. Subscribe to the University Libraries&#8217; blog to receive news and events information via e-mail. Home away from home! Posted in Branch Libraries , Events , Exhibition , Homepage , News , Research and Instructional Services , Special Collections , Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Apr 23 2014 Julia Reed, Stanton Thomas, and Melissa Hall speaking at 2014 Delta Symposium! Posted by jschnbel Now in its ninth year, The Delta Symposium has drawn hundreds of people for the day-long celebration of the history, culture, and life of the Delta region .  This year’s Delta is themed  “Two Sides of the River,” and will be held on Thursday, June 5, 2014, at the Fogelman Executive Center and Holiday Inn Ballroom on the University of Memphis campus. The Delta 2014, hosted by writer and filmmaker Willy Bearden, includes an outstanding lineup of speakers and entertainment.  The morning will begin with a continental breakfast, followed by presentations by Brooks Museum of Memphis curator Dr. Stanton Thomas on “Carroll Cloar’s Delta,” renowned author Julia Reed on “A Taste of the Delta” and Southern Foodways Alliance assistant director  Melissa Hall on “Lebanese Culture in the Delta.”  The buffet luncheon at the Holiday Inn will include humorous entertainment by John Pritchard (a shuttle service will be available between Fogelman and the Holiday Inn).  The afternoon&#8211;comprised of panel sessions held in Fogelman allowing for close interaction with our speakers&#8211;will continue with presentations on the blues, genealogy, catfish farming, and more. Every year, The Delta helps to raise funds for the University Libraries and to support our many educational exhibitions and events.  Early bird registration ($65) is available online until May 6; regular registration ($75) is available online until May 30.   Reserve your place today! The Delta has its own Facebook page! Visit us for updated information about the symposium, videos from past conferences,  and stunning photos from the Delta region! Posted in Events , News , Special Collections | 1 Comment | Mar 11 2014 Celebrate &#8220;Inspiring Women of the 1960s&#8221; on March 18 Posted by jschnbel Maxine Smith and Miriam DeCosta-Willis, 1969 Please join us on Tuesday, March 18, 11:30 a.m. -1:00 p.m. in the rotunda of McWherter Library as U of M students honor women writers, artists, and activists of the 1960s by reading aloud from speeches, letters, poems, fiction, and government documents. The event is free and open to the public. Highlights include Betty Friedan&#8217;s &#8220;The Problem That Has No Name,&#8221; Shirley Chisholm&#8217;s &#8220;The 51% Minority,&#8221; Joan Baez&#8217;s anti-war letter to the IRS,  Nikki Giovanni&#8217;s poem &#8220;For Saundra,&#8221; and Daisy Bates&#8217; speech during the 1963 March on Washington. The program will conclude with a tribute to this year&#8217;s MLK Human Rights Award recipient Dr. Miriam DeCosta-Willis and the late activist Mrs. Maxine Smith. Dr. Aram Goudsouzian, chair of the Department of History and author of Down to the Crossroads: Civil Rights, Black Power, and the Meredith March Against Fear ( Farrar, Straus, and Giroux, 2014), will serve as emcee. The event is co-sponsored by the University Libraries (with support from the Friends of the University Libraries), the Department of English, the Department of History, and the Center for Research on Women (CROW). Special thank you to Dr. Beverly Bond, Dr. Peggy Caffrey, Dr. Ladrica Menson-Furr, Dr. Sarah Potter, and Dr. Lynda Sagrestano for their scholarly contributions. &#8220;Inspiring Women of the 1960s&#8221; was created in celebration of Women&#8217;s History Month and inspired by the &#8220;The Civil Rights Act of 1964: How Far Have We Come?&#8221; exhibition on view on the first and fourth floors of McWherter Library until June 15. For more information, please visit the Libraries&#8217; online  research guide . Posted in Events , Exhibition , News , Special Collections | Leave a comment | Feb 19 2014 Exhibition: The Civil Rights Act of 1964: How Far Have We Come? Posted by mathphobic   The University Libraries commemorates the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 with an exhibition of historical documents, newspaper clippings, and photographs from our collections. Displays on the first floor focus on the struggle for civil rights in the Mid-South, and the fourth floor display highlights the history of African American newspapers in Memphis with original digital collages of headlines from the year 1964. “The Civil Rights Act of 1964: How Far Have We Come?” will be on view in the rotunda and on the fourth floor of McWherter Library until June 15, 2014. Free and open to the public. Presented with the support of Friends of the University Libraries.  For additional resources, please visit our online research guide at   . &#8220;The Civil Rights Act of 1964: How Far Have We Come?&#8221; Reflection Project We encourage you to reflect on the failures and triumphs of the tireless struggle for civil rights in the mid-20th century. How far have we come? Please comment on this post or message  the   Libraries&#8217; Facebook page . You can also visit the reflection tables located near the first and fourth floor displays in McWherter Library. Any comments you make may appear in the University Libraries&#8217; publications and/or on the Twitter Feed, digital repository, and digital sign located in the rotunda of McWherter Library. Thank you for participating! Posted in Events , Exhibition , News , Special Collections | Leave a comment | Search for: Recent Posts New to the Libraries Maymester at the Libraries Extended Library Hours During Exam Week The University Libraries Hosts Faculty Scholarship Week, April 13 &#8211; 17 The University Libraries Celebrates Women&#8217;s History Month 2015 Archives September 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 Categories Alerts Branch Libraries Events Exhibition Homepage News Research and Instructional Services Special Collections Trial Resources Uncategorized Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS blogs.memphis.edu &copy; University of Memphis Libraries Skip to toolbar University of Memphis University Home Memphis Blogs Blogging Help Log In Search