#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/cas/aerospace.php
Aerospace Studies - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Aerospace Studies Aerospace Studies The Department of Aerospace Studies provides a four-year program of instruction for all qualified U.S. citizens, male and female, divided into two phases, each of two years duration. The first, termed the General Military Course, offers instruction in the foundation of leadership and Aerospace-age citizenship. The second, termed the Professional Officer Course, builds upon these foundations in developing upperclassmen who are to become Air Force officers and serve on active duty upon graduation and commissioning. Instruction in Aerospace Studies has been an important phase of the curriculum at the University of Memphis since 1951. Active duty Air Force personnel, approved by the University president, are detailed by the Department of the Air Force to administer the instructional program. Air Force officers serve under appointment by the University as Professor or Assistant Professor of Aerospace Studies. THE GENERAL MILITARY COURSE (GMC) The two-year (4 semesters) General Military Course consists of one hour a week of classroom instruction and two hours a week in Leadership Laboratory. Textbooks are furnished by the Air Force without charge. Air Force uniforms are furnished and must be properly worn and kept in good condition. Cadets who successfully complete the GMC may apply for admission to the Professional Officer Course. THE PROFESSIONAL OFFICER COURSE (POC) The Professional Officer Course provides instruction and systematic training to selected eligible students who desire to qualify as officers in the United States Air Force while pursuing their academic studies at the University. Successful completion of the requirements for the POC and for a baccalaureate degree leads to a commission in the United States Air Force as a Second Lieutenant. To be eligible for selection to the POC, a student must have at least two undergraduate years remaining at the University. Final selection is based on academic standing, leadership potential, percentile score on the Air Force Officer Qualifying Test, and physical qualifications. LEADERSHIP LABORATORY This lab is designed around a microcosm of the U.S. Air Force. It gives the cadets the opportunity to develop their leadership potential while allowing the staff to make evaluations based on actual managerial and leadership situations. AIR FORCE ROTC COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM Scholarships paying full tuition and fees, book allowance, and a tax free subsistence allowance of $350.00 per month are available to entering freshmen and University students who are competitive academically and will enroll in the Air Force ROTC program. Details concerning qualifications and applications can be obtained from the Department of Aerospace Studies. NOTE: Several loan funds are also available to students enrolled in AFROTC. For more information, contact the department staff. FIELD TRAINING Field Training is offered during the summer months at selected Maxwell Air Force Base in Montgomery, Alabama. Students in the four-year program participate in four weeks of Field Training (AERO 3211), usually between their sophomore and junior years. Students applying for entry into the program with less than four years must successfully complete five weeks of Field Training (AERO 3212) prior to enrollment in the Professional Officer Course. AEROSPACE STUDIES MINOR Upon successful completion of 16 semester hours in Aerospace Studies with a minimum grade of C, a cadet may apply for a minor in Aerospace Studies. College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .