#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/Univ_college/disability.php
Disability Studies and Rehabilitation Services - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Disability Studies and Rehabilitation Services Disability Studies and Rehabilitation Services Advising guidelines for the Bachelor of Professional Studies (B.P.S.) degree with a concentration in Disability Studies and Rehabilitation Services are designed for students seeking to be academically and professionally grounded in a thorough understanding of the social, psychological, economic, physical, medical, and other environmental problems faced by individuals seeking disability services. The history, philosophy, legal issues, ethical issues, and agencies/facilities are also addressed through the courses within these guidelines. Students will also be exposed to the theme of employment – including vocational adjustment and appropriate job placement – and independent living outcomes as reaffirmed in the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992. Rehabilitation depends heavily upon communication between both the consumer and professional and among various professionals; consequently, communication will be stressed, as well as an understanding of the potential influence of cultural diversity and individual lifestyle choices. Courses will also enable students to understand the methods used in disability services to solve consumer problems and how to utilize available resources to improve consumer access, quality of services, and decision making. Finally, a well-supervised field experience component will provide students the opportunity to integrate classroom principles and develop entry-level skills in a work setting. Program Summary A. General Education (35-41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. Students who have completed one year of American History in high school are exempted from the six credit-hour History General Education Program requirement; otherwise, students will have to meet the History requirement. B. Coordinated Study (58-59 hours) Professional Core (19 hours) COUN 4901 Principles and Techniques of Rehabilitation Counseling COUN 4913 Medical and Psychosocial Aspects of Rehabilitation COUN 4921 Vocational Development &amp; Occupational Information Service SWRK 3902 Human Behavior &amp; Social Environment SWRK 3903 Social Work Practice I Choose one: SWRK 2010 Social Work Profession and Practice SWRK 2911 Social Response to Human Need Statistics and Research Methods (6-7 hours) 1. Statistics (select 1) PSYC 3001 Psychological Statistics SOCI 3311 Social Statistics 2. Research Methods (select 1) PSYC 3000 Introduction to Psychological Research SOCI 3322 Methods of Social Research Rehabilitation Delivery (12 hours) COUN 4611 Introduction to Counseling COUN 4781 Strategies for Crisis Intervention COUN 4783 Alcohol and Drug Abuse Services PADM 4207 Health Politics and Policy PETE 3308 Exceptional Learners in Physical Education PSYC 3512 Health Psychology SLS 3905 Leisure and Recreation for People with Disabilities SWRK 3920 Social Welfare Policies &amp; Programs: Theory &amp; Application THEA 4503 Creative Dramatics Management Services (9 hours) ACCT 2010 Fundamentals of Accounting I MGMT 3110 Organization and Management MGMT 3215 Management of Human Resources PADM 3601 Public Administration PADM 4226 Introduction to Nonprofit Organizations PADM 4227 Issues in Nonprofit Administration Communications (6 hours) 1. Professional Communications (3 hours) MGMT 3510 Business Communications ENGL 3601 Technical &amp; Professional Writing ENGL 3604 Persuasive Writing COMM 3342 Communication and Leadership COMM 4011 Communications in Organizations 2. Interpersonal Communications (3 hours) COMM 4012 Health Communications COMM 4373 Interracial Communications COMM 4375 Intercultural Communications COUN 4621 Human Interactions Development and Aging (6 hours) EDPR 2111 Development Across the Life Span HPRO 2100 Wellness Concepts and Practices HMSE 4305 Problems in Human Movement Sciences &amp; Education LEAD 3350 The Adult Learner NUTR 2202 Nutrition SOCI 3112 Contemporary Social Problems SOCI 4541 Sociology of Aging SOCI 4851 Medical Sociology SOCI 4852 Sociology of Mental Illness SOCI 4923 Social Institutions and the Life Cycle SPED 2000 Issues Human Diversity UNIV 4527 The Developing Adult C. Internship (3 hours, Optional) UNIV 2110 Field Experience UNIV 4110 Internship UNIV 3900 Advanced Experiential Learning Persons with prior experience in the disability services field may apply for credit through the Experiential Learning process. For information, visit: D. College Requirements (10 hours) Thematic Studies (6 hours ) Any UNIV 3500-3599 or UNIV 4500-4599 Students complete a total of 6 hours in a University College thematic studies course(s) of their choosing. These courses are designed to broaden a student's knowledge of significant themes in social, political, and religious history. Only specifically designated courses will meet this requirement. For a complete list of courses: Senior Project (3 hours) UNIV 4995 Senior Project The Senior Project is a student's culminating experience or capstone designed to synthesize and integrate the content of a students program of study. The senior project is intended to fuse together the two or more academic areas that comprise your coordinated study (major) into an academically-relevant example of scholarship. Students will complete a thesis, task based or artistic project on a topic of their choice with approval of their Senior Project instructor. Students must select a topic by the end of their Junior year. UNIV 4990 must be completed before UNIV 4995. The Senior Project is completed during a student's final semester. UNIV 4990 and UNIV 4995 can not be taken during the same semester. For more information on the Senior Project and to request a registration permit, visit this website: E. Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120 with a minimum of 42 upper-division hours. Students who have earned the “Home Manager” technical certificate from Southwest Tennessee Community College can receive 15 hours of credit to be applied to the concentration as follows: 12 hours in Rehabilitation Delivery and 3 hours of Internship. Students who hold this certification need to inform their advisor in University College in order for the hours to be posted to the students' University of Memphis transcript. Typical 4-Year Disability Studies and Rehabilitation Services Concentration Sequence Freshman Year ENGL 1010 3 ENGL 1020 3 Social/Behavioral Sci.* 3 Social/Behavioral Sci.* 3 MATH* 3 Humanitie/Fine Artss* 3 Humanities/Fine Arts* 3 Group F (Lower Division) 3 Elective 3 COMM 2381* 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 15 hrs Sophomore Year ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 Natural Science* 4 Natural Science* 4 Group B-2 3 SWRK 2010 or 2911 3 Group C 3 Group B-1 3 Group E-1 3 Elective 3 Group F 3 Semester Totals 16 hrs 16 hrs Junior Year SWRK 3902 3 COUN 4913 3 COUN 4901 3 SWRK 3903 4 Group D 3 Group B 3 Group E-2 3 Group C 3 Elective 3 Group D 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 15 hrs Senior Year COUN 4921 3 UNIV 4995 3 Group C 3 Elective 3 Group D 3 Thematice Studies 3 Thematics Studies 3 Group C 3 Elective** 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 12 hrs Total Hours: 120 Total Hours Required for Graduation: 120 *Must satisfy University General Education Program Requirement **Students may opt to do an internship in place of a general elective in their senior year. An internship is not required to meet degree requirements. College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .