#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT7270001.pdf
Course Syllabus MGMT 7270 Venturing Building Sustaining Successful Enterprises Fall 2015 3 credit hours Instructor: Associate Professor Frances Fabian Phone1: 901 - 347 - 3574 Phone2: 662 - 778 - 2342 E - mail: ffabian@memphis.edu Office: FCBE Office 211 Skype ID: frances.fabian4 Lin kedIn: Frances Fabian URL: Office Hours: T Th 3:30 - 5:30 Course Overview: The field of business venturing, which emphasizes the start - up phases of entrepreneurship, is a popular and growing area of the business curriculum. This course is designed to accomplish the fundamental objectives of learning how to design, implement, and sustain a business around a new business idea. This course provides a foundational introduction to the process of venturing for MBA students. Required Text: The Lean Entrepreneur by Brant Cooper, Patrick Vlaskovitz ISBN - 10: 111829534X ISBN - 13: 978 - 1118295342 Wiley Business model generation: a handbook for visionaries, game changers, and challengers Osterwalder, Alexander, and Yves Pigneur.. Wiley. com, 2010.BMG Articles will also be assigned through the elearn interface. Location of Course Materials: Beyond the textbook, all of your required materials will be found here on the elearn site in the content section. You are responsible for reading the weekly modules and keeping up with assignments. Course Objectives: 1. Accurately define the types of business forms for entrepreneurial startups. 2. Understand the role of f ormulating a business plan and its ingredients.. 3. Practice and explain the customer discovery process as the key precursor to succesful entrepreneurship. 4. Identify lessons from successful entrepreneurs. 5. Explain the three key activities of networking, learn ing, and persisting through failure. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree es.pdf Course Description This course introduces you to concepts and ideas about how new ventures are started and born. We will learn from the issues faced by localentrepreneurs, readings that introduces materials, and a simulation to •practice† management skills. You will ask to •blog† about a proposed venture throughout the semester, practice the simulation, read the materials, write - up insights on entrepreneurs,and present a venture in the last class. Attendance and Preparation Expectations Entrepreneurship is taught as an activ e learning course - lecture discussions and exercises, and even more importantly, speakers, are all central to the format. This is the opportunity to draw on the varied backgrounds of our class, and class attendance not only helps your learning but helps your peers as well. Thus, attendance is expected for every class, and we begin promptly. Absences might be excused when explained in advance. More than two unexcused absences will impact your participation (and in turn, course) grade by 10%. You cannot pass this course if you have more than three unexcused absences. I will also expect you to be ready for class. Again, if you can attend but will not be properly prepared, you will want to notify me at the beginning of class, but attend the class anyway. To be prepared, you need to have read all of the required readings, updated your blog, and be prepared to discuss the topic. Professional behavior is expected in the classroom. You should arrive on time. Do not hold side conversations during cla ss (if you do, I will most likely join in). You may use your computer for taking notes or reading notes during class. Do not read outside materials or surf the web entertainingly during the session (if I see something interesting on your computer screen, I may stop and surf with you during class). I will also answer your phone calls for you. Academic Integrity Code: I could go for some length about the importance of maintaining academic integrity, but suffice it to say that I will not consider any extenu ating circumstances. There is no reason to cheat. You can brush up on plagiarism at the link here . I will follow through with the fullest penalty available. Please note, I have at my disposal a few places to turn your assignments in to check for plagiarism. Special Accommodations: If you require special accommodation because of a disability, please advise me immediately -- reasonable and appropriate accommodations will be provided to students with disabilities who present a memo from Disability Resources for Students (DRS). IMPORTANT NOTE:The course schedule is tentative and is subject to change. All changes will be announced in class. Course Assignments and How They Are Evaluated Class Participation Are you there? Are you prepared? Do you participate? Do you participate constructively? 15% Simulation in Pairs 15% Speaker Paragraphs 15% Web blog Page of Entrepreneurial Firm 20% Attendance at a small business meeting 10% International Case analysis 10% Final Business Planand presentation 15% Class Participation - 15% of the grade Above are four questions that roughly equal a 1 - 4 point scale per session grade for class participation. Participation requires y ou to stay up with readings Attendance is especially important for our guest speakersIn addition, you will need to make sure you turn in any additional exercises/assignments from any internet sessions. transition Simulation in Pairs You have received an e mail from Interpretive Solutions on how to enroll in our Entrepreneurship simulation. The •skill† you are working onis understanding a more holistic view of the day to day ambiguity, but needed action, in the entrepreneurial context. All of my past simul ations have been very insightful and educational, and your peers have really enjoyed them, so hold your judgment to the end. You will be working in pairs for this assignment, and will want to interact in a Discussion forum area, or you can choose to wo rk by email,skype, a wiki, etc. The important thing is you will be rated by your peer at the end of the semester, and you will be writing a short paper -- 3 to 4 double space pages -- on what you learned from the simulation experience. You will have to b e concrete about the strategy you used for your company. Paragraphs 15% We have approximately eight to nine speakers throughout the semester. After each speaker (before the Sunday of that week), you need toplace one paragraph (3 - 5 sentences) in the associated dropbox on the best insight you gained from the speaker's presentation. For your memory, you may want to make a quick note identifying who they are, and what they do. It needs to be specific to that speaker for full credit. Web Blog Page of En trepreneurial firm -- 30% of the grade You will turn in a blog address (provide a link by e - mail) that will be available for your own musings. You are to put together a "business plan/model" as the final project. On the way, you are going to post on your web log material about how the readings we cover affect your decisions for the final business plan/model. Each week as we cover new material, I'd like to see an addition to your blog about how that firm has addressed the subject of the readings. The goal is to get you "out there" putting your ideas down so that I can evaluate your progress.. Attendance at an Entrepreneurship or Small Business Meeting On my homepage, you will see a link called "Emphasis on Memphis." I would like you to attend one meeting at one business group sometime before December 1, and write up what you did /learned on your blog. If you know a good group I have not covered, contact me, I'll possibly add it. I suggest you contact the group before going to get p ermission to attend. If you would like, I'll call ahead for you. International Case Analysis - 10% You will be turning in a 3 page paper on ONE of the cases provided in class . You will compare the obstacle s these entrepreneurs overcame with the kinds of issues an entrepreneur in the United States faces, and offer ways domestic entrepreneurs can learn from these cases. Final Business Plan 15% The final project is a business plan/model that you will write up (at least 25 pages) and you will present it before the class in powerpointform. We should be able to get 4 - 5 presentations per class with the 15 students we have (at 15 minutes per presentation), during the last three classes. Date Session Assig nment Tuesday Aug 25 1 WHAT IS A STARTUP? Getting a new idea: Brainstorming business ideas. Introductions, go over syllabus, mini - Lecture Thursday Aug 27 2 MYTHS AND DEFINITIONS TLE: Chapter 1 BMG: Definition of a business Model Read Canvas to page 44 of Business model Generation Watch Youtube: HYPERLINK " outube.com/watch?v=QoAOzMTLP5s Download/understand map of mom & Tuesday Sep 1 3 CREATIVITY BMG: Design Watch you tube: HYPERLINK " outube.com/watch?v=zDZFcDGpL4U Getting a new idea: Brainstorming business ideas. TURN in your blog address. Blogs will be posted in Resources section. Thursday Sep 3 4 CREATIVITY exercises Tuesday Sep 8 5 FEASIBILITY ? or EFFECTUATION? TLE: Chapter 2 BMG: PATTERNS Watch video: HYPERLINK " - E" - E Do your blog Thursday Sep 10 6 SPEAKER: Mike Hoffmeyer, Director for Crews Venture Lab Tuesday Sep 15 7 DON‡T THROW AWAY THE BUSINESS PLAN The SBA guidance on HYPERLINK " - structure/starting - managing - business/starting - business/writing - business - plan" the business plan Watch this HYPERLINK " 6_6UbprFw" youtube from John Ellis BMG: Design 126 - 180 Do your blog Thursday Sep 17 8 SPEAKER: Tuesday Sep 22 9 CUSTOMERS. WHO WILL BUY? Do watch the • HYPERLINK " es.html"filter bubble† TLE: Chapter 3 Do your blog Thursday Sep 24 10 SPEAKER: Tuesday Sep 29 11 CUSTOMERS:HOW WILL WE GET THEM? Do watch • HYPERLINK " ot_awards.html" design for people† BMG: p212 - 232 TLE Chapter 4 TSOM Chapter 4 Do your blog Thursday Oct 1 12 SPEAKER: Tuesday Oct 6 13 CUSTOMERS: IT‡S ALL ABOUT (inter)ACTION TLE: Chapter 6&7 Do your blog HYPERLINK " Internet%20session%2013.html" Thursday Oct 8 14 SPEAKER: Oct 13 Tuesday is Fall Break Thursday Oct 15 15 SPEAKER: FF - Youtubers and technology cascades T uesday Oct 20 16 ROLLING OUT THE IDEA TLE: Chapter 6 & 7 Do your blog Thursday Oct 22 17 SPEAKER: Tuesday Oct 27 18 WHERE IS THE MONEY? NO CLASS ON CAMPUS Watch • HYPERLINK " How to pitch to a VC† Business Plan Financials series HYPERLINK " n_276582&feature=iv&p=2EB5F632CA4A889D&src_vid=MO35 8 - notation_276582&feature=iv&p=2EB5F632CA4A889D&src_vid= MO358 - VGuYE"HERE G etting over the basics: Do your blog … Talk about the financials. What holds you back from taking a shot? Is there really a cheaper option to market and launch … a little brainstorming here. Thursday Oct 29 19 SPEAKER: Work Project: Outline fo r your powerpoints and business plan. Turn it in to the dropbox. Tuesday Nov 3 20 NOW WHAT? Validating and Evaluating BMG: p 244 - 262 TLE: Chapter 8 Do your blog Thursday Nov 5 21 SPEAKER: Tuesday Nov 10 22 Final Class review Do your blog - This is the last round. What is the number one reason your venture might not succeed. Detail a bit on this and then surf out a couple of firms that have succeed Thursday Nov 12 23 Speaker: Tuesday Nov 17 24 Last seminar of class ideas and review of course material. Thurday Nov 19 25 Discussion of International Cases Tuessday Nov 24 26 Last class Final Presentations Nov 28 Thanksgiving Break Tuesday Dec 1 27 Last class Final Presentations For Final Exam Week by Dec 10 Final Business Plan Due Electronically Simulation paper peer feed SUMMATION OF READINGS BY SESSION: Date Topic BMG (Business Model Generation) TLE (Lean Entrep) Tuesday Aug 27 WHAT IS A STARTUP? Thursday Aug 29 MYTHS AND DEFINITIONS Canvas to page 44 Chapter 1 Tuesday Sep 3 CREATIVITY Design Tuesday Sep10 FEASIBILITY ? or EFFECTUATION? Patterns Chapter 2 Tuesday Sep 17 DON‡T THROW AWAY THE BUSINESS PLAN Strategy p.200 - 212 Tuesday Sep 24 CUSTOMERS … Who will buy? (segment) Chapter 3 Tuesday Oct 1 CUSTOMERS … How will we Get Them? (development) Chapter 4 Tuesday Oct 8 CUSTOMERS: IT‡S ALL ABOUT (inter)ACTION Strategy P 212 - 232 Chapter 5 Tuesday Oct 22 ROLLING OUT THE IDEA Chapter 6 & 7 Tuesday Oct 29 NOW WHAT? Process p244 - 262 Chapter 8 Tuesday Nov 5 Validating and Evaluating Tuesday Nov 12 CHANGING WITH THE TIMES Chapter 9 & 10