#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/acct/2015FACCT3130502.pdf
Course Syllabus COURSE: ACCT 3130 THE LEGAL,SOCIAL,POLITICAL ENVIRONMENT OF BUSINESS TERM: Fall 2015 SECTIONS: 502 CREDIT HOURS 3 Instructor: Dr. LARRY MOORE Phone1: 901 - 678 - 462 E - mail: lmoore2@memphis.edu E - mail2: lmoorel@yahoo.com Note ecourseware email is not logged into the university email system. So if you send me a email on ecourseware, it may never reach me in a timely manner. Please use either email above. Office: BB Room 205 Home Page Office Hours: Mon, Tue, Wed 1:00 2: After class 10:35 11:00 & by appointment Required Texts (and Related Materials): Volume 1 by Moore & Morgan The Textbook is mandatory as it includes an access code for online quizzes. Important information about the online material should be read first and is at: extbookPlusCustom.pdf Class Code is BDE600 1. Course Overview This course will use the traditional lecture, Socratic questioning and essay test method of teaching and testing. These techniques have been historically and repeatedly tested and proven to be effective not only in the transfer of information but also for teaching and developing the skills of critical thinking, critical analysis, and persuasive writing skills. These techniques further insuring long term retention and learning of facts and information. Unlike most courses taught in a professional school tha t teach skills and techniques, this the student a legal knowledge base of informa tion to guide and use with the business skills that they have been taught in the operation or management of a business. 2. Course Policies After the first week of class, students are expected to read text assignments before class and take the quiz for th at chapter The student should be prepared to discuss issues raised in the text. Each student will be responsible for class participation. Class Attendance Failure to attend class will be treated as non participation and result in a loss of up to 20 point s from final grade. Allowable absences MW 7 absences You do not have to email the Professor to notify him of class absence. As long as you are within your class limit you are ok. If an emergency pushes you over the limit, then you should contact me with your documentation of the emergency at the end of the course. Absences for which there is a university approved excuse will not be counted against class attendance. All other excuses, including medical excuses, may be considered, but will not prevent a st udent from losing points for excessive absences. Students will begin to loose points off their final grade equal to one [1.5] points per HOUR of class missed after 7 in MW class, and [4] points after 3 in M class: The professor will only tabulate attendan ce after the final exam. EACH STUDENT WILL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR KEEPING HIS or HER OWN ATTENDANCE RECORD. Academic Integrity and Cheating: Any student found with unauthorized notes, copying from other students, or any other act of cheating will given a grade of F and will be reported to the Dean' office. Expectations for academic integrity and student conduct are described in detail on the website of the Office of Student Judicial and Ethical Affairs ( ). Please take a look, in particular, at the sections about "Academic Dishonesty" and "Student Code of Conduct and Responsibilities." I expect students to be aware of these guidelines and to conduct themselves accordingly. Reference the FCBE page on academic integrity: ). This section should also include the following re quired text: Office of Student Conduct website ] 3 . Grading and Evaluation Criteria and Final Course Grades : There is no final exam, the students grade will be based upon class quizzes, a midterm and an end of term essay exam , plus bonus points and will be calculated as follows . Quizzes 90 Intro Bonus Introduction 5 Video Bonus Discussion 5 Exams 200 Total Possible Points 300 Your final grade will be determined taking your final point total and dividing by 3 as follows: A = 90 - 100 B = 80 - 89 C = 70 - 79 D = 60 - 69 F = Below 60 I DO NOT USE A +/ - GRADING SCALE. Exams: There will be two exams worth 100 points each. Quizzes: Will be due prior to the class lecture on the chapter. The quizzes are at: ht Go to this site and enter the code which you will be given when you buy your textbook. The quizzes will open and close on the dates shown on the site. You must take the exams during this period. Bonus: I want to get to kn ow as many of my students as possible. It also maximizes your online experience if you learn about each other. In the forum during the first week of class I would like you to briefly write something about yourself. Explain what your major is, your future p lans, etc. in the forum. You will get 5 bonus points for writing about yourself in the forum. This must be done by October 17, 2015 . An important aspect of the learning experience is classroom interaction and discussion. In an online class, this is accomplished through the discussion in the Forum area. The Forum is also where you should ask questions about chapter assignments, etc. and assist other students. It is also where you will discuss your assignment answer. Video A video link will be placed in the Forum and will be viewed in connection with chapter 8. The student will watch the video and then post on the forum a brief discussion of some aspect that you found interesting or did not know. It should be at least four lines in length. You will get an additional 5 points for this . You may also start a line or respond to a line. THERE ARE NO PRE - EXAM REVIEW OR STUDY SHEETS Review and t he creation of notes is the sole purpose of class attendance and will be done on a daily bases. The student is strongly encouraged to ask questions or make comments immediately as they arise in class as others may have that same issue in mind. Makeup Exams and Penalties Makeup exams or reopening of quizzes will be given only for major medical or personal emergencies at the instructor's discretion. There will be only one makeup given for all classes and the student must arrange to take the exam at that time. Failure to take the makeup with result in a grade of zero for that test. 10 points will be deductive from any makeup exam grade and 2 points from any late quiz. 4 . Course Topics First Exam Topics Chapter 1. Foundations of Ethics and Modern Societ " 3. U.S. Constitution " 4. Constitutional Law and Business Regulations " 5. Administrative Law and Governmental Regulations Second Exam Topics " 10. Environmental Regulations " 11. Security Regulations " 12. Torts, Introduction and Intentional Torts " 13. Negligence and Strict Liability " 17. Franchises 5 . First and Final Exam Schedule 1 st Exam October 26, 2015 2nd and last Exam December 2, 2015 6 .Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree BBA omes.pdf BBA ACCT earningOutcomes.pdf 7 . Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: A prerequisite and upper division check will be done once the first class roll has been issued. You must meet the following requirements to be in any 3000 - 4000 level business course: Any student seeking a degree in the Fogelman College of Business must: (1) have completed all required lower division Business Administration courses with a minimum grade of "C" in each. (2) have a minimum quality point average of 2.25 (ACCT majors 2.5) in all required lower division courses and Math 1312. (3) have accumulated 55 hours of course work including the required 9 semester hours of English. Non - business majors must have junior or senior s tanding and have been permitted to take this course by their department or college. If you have not met these requirements, it is your responsibility to correct the situation during the official add period. If you have not met these require ments and have not corrected this situation, you may be administratively dropped . FEDERAL FINANCIAL AID NOTICE A major change has been made within the Federal student financial aid system. Beginning Fall 2011, a new federal law requires that students rece iving financial aid who are registered for any classes on the first day of classes are considered to be attending classes and will have their financial aid award debited for those classes. 8. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about: Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance