#http://www.memphis.edu/et/accreditation/
Accreditation - Engineering Technology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Engineering Technology Future Students Current Students Research People About Accreditation Accreditation Home Engineering Technology Accreditation Accreditation The undergraduate program in Engineering Technology accredited by the Engineering Technology Accreditation Commission of ABET, . Program Educational Objectives: The program educational objectives (PEO) of the Engineering Technology program are to produce graduates who, within five years of graduation, are prepared with the depth of knowledge, breadth of experiences, and an attitude of professionalism that will enable them to: Attain gainful employment in a related technical field providing personal and professional growth; Pursue professional development such as additional formal education, certifications and workshops; Attain increasing levels of responsibility and leadership in their own chosen field; Apply a depth of knowledge and ability to manage, design, develop, analyze, and/or implement technical projects, demonstrating a quality of performance necessary to succeed in engineering technology careers. Student Outcomes: a. Students will be able to demonstrate an appropriate mastery of the knowledge, techniques, skills, and modern tools in the industrial application of computers, electronics, or manufacturing principles. b. By progression through required coursework, students will demonstrate the ability to effectively use information acquisition tools, implement technology, and incorporate emerging technology into problem solutions as they adapt to new methods and techniques presented in the coursework. c. Through coursework and laboratory exercises, students will develop the ability to conduct experiments as appropriate to the Engineering Technology program. These exercises require the collection and analysis of data pertinent to exercise objectives, and further interpretation and application of the experimental results to the improvement of practical systems, devices, and processes. d. Creativity and innovation comes from the free association of ideas to solve problems that have not been solved by following current methods. The student will demonstrate the ability to apply systematic methods and techniques to generate original solutions. e. The ability to work effectively in multidisciplinary groups; can identify the different roles group members can fulfill, recognize and respect different personality styles, display leadership qualities, and reconcile differences. f. The ability to apply a systematic approach to the solution of problems. This includes the ability to identify and analyze a problem from various perspectives and concisely define its scope; propose alternative solutions and techniques; assess viability of potential solutions; and to anticipate the impact of proposed problem solutions. g. The ability to produce effective written documents, deliver effective oral presentations, develop, prepare and interpret effective visual information and communicate effectively with a specific audience or client. h. The ability to develop and pursue a plan for further professional development and a pursuit of learning activities to achieve depth of knowledge in chosen field of work. Is able to engage in self-directed learning and able to self-assess their learning. Develops an increasing knowledge of current and emerging technologies. i. Understanding of the expectations and responsibilities of a technologist employed in the public or private sector. Identify the professional and ethical standards that apply to the field of engineering technology. j. Understand the impact of technologies on society through examination of various legal, international, social, and commercial issues. Understands and values cultural diversity; is aware of international variations in approaches, and globalization of business. k. Understands and can apply fundamental principles and processes of contemporary quality management techniques. Understands and can apply the concepts of continuous improvement, and the importance of timeliness. Enrollment and Graduation Data: (Fall 2014 Semester Census) Full Time / Part Time 111/57 Number of Graduates in 2013-14 Academic Year 38 Fall 2013 Semester Census) Full Time / Part Time 119 / 65 Number of Graduates in 2012-13 Academic Year 28 Accreditation Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/29/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .