#http://www.memphis.edu/aleks/about/
UofM - ALEKS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Assessment and Learning in Knowledge Spaces About Take Exam Interpret Your Results Learning Module Home ALEKS About About the ALEKS Assessment Your ALEKS score will indicate the course you are eligible to take. However, you may enroll in a lower level math course after talking with your advisor. What is the ALEKS Assessment? The ALEKS Assessment covers material from basic math through precalculus and will take approximately 90 minutes to complete. This is an assessment, NOT A TEST. The difference is that an assessment is designed to determine what you know. At the end of the ALEKS Placement Assessment, you will have a much better sense of your strengths and weaknesses in math. You will then have a chance to work on those weaknesses. There is really no penalty for incorrectly answering a question on the assessment. The most important thing is that you take the assessment seriously and give it an honest effort so that the assessment truly reflects your level of knowledge and math preparedness. IS THERE A PRACTICE TEST FOR THE ALEKS ASSESSMENT? ALEKS will begin with a brief tutorial before your placement begins. WHO MUST TAKE ALEKS? All incoming first-year students must complete the ALEKS placement assessment. All incoming transfer students with no prior college-level coursework in math must take the ALEKS assessment. All students enrolling in an entry level math course must take an ALEKS assessment if they have not successfully completed a prerequisite course with a C- or better in the 6 months before the first day of the semester for which they are enrolling If the score on the assessment indicates a lack of preparedness for the desired course, the student may take another ALEKS assessment. However, it is highly recommended that students use the free ALEKS Prep and Learning Module to build their math knowledge prior to taking another assessment. WHEN DO I TAKE ALEKS? Entering freshmen must complete the ALEKS assessment before attending New Student Orientation. Students who need to enroll in a math course must complete the ALEKS assessment prior to being advised. HOW LONG DO I HAVE TO COMPLETE THE ALEKS ASSESSMENT? The ALEKS assessment must be completed within 72 hours after you log into the assessment. Placement assessments require approximately 90 minutes to complete, but the amount of time will vary by student. There will be a maximum of 30 questions. How long will it take to complete the ALEKS assessment? Be sure you are ready to take your assessment prior to logging on. Set aside at least a 90-minute block of time in which to complete the assessment. The length of the assessment varies by student, but there will be a maximum of 30 questions. HOW MUCH DOES THE ALEKS ASSESSMENT COST? Students are allowed to take the ALEKS assessment free of charge. IS THERE A PRACTICE TEST FOR THE ALEKS ASSESSMENT? ALEKS will begin with a brief tutorial before your placement begins. How long is my ALEKS assessment score valid? Your placement result is valid for 6 months. Math is a discipline that requires practice. After 6 months, students who have not taken a college-level math course need to retake the ALEKS assessment so that they can be sure to take the math course that is best for their skills and knowledge. Where do I take the ALEKS assessment? Students take the ALEKS assessment from home by logging into the myMemphis portal. Please enter your UofM user name and your password. The username corresponds to the letters appearing before "@memphis.edu" in your University of Memphis email address. After logging into the myMemphis portal, click on the "Student" tab to locate the ALEKS channel. What other special directions do I need to follow when taking the ALEKS Assessment? Placement is a process that attempts to help ensure the student's success. Not doing your best can place you too low and delay your progress into other courses. Using outside assistance to simply achieve a higher score may cause you to be placed in a course you are not prepared for and result in a poor grade or failure which can delay your progress even more and may cause problems with financial aid and scholarships. You need to take the assessment yourself and do your best so that the assessment reflects your knowledge and skills. At the beginning of the ALEKS assessment, you will go through a brief tutorial that will introduce you to the ALEKS system and interface. You will be shown how to enter different types of answers, how to use the ALEKS calculator, and how to graph something by hand. Although the interface is reasonably intuitive and the tutorial is very helpful, there may be times when you need help using the ALEKS system; in these situations, click on the "Help" button at the top of the screen. Sometimes you might have to use new tools to submit your answers during the ALEKS Assessment. When this happens, Quick Help will be available, and will show you how to use these tools. Don't rush through the assessment. Although we prefer that you take the assessment in one sitting, there may be situations in which you must leave your computer. If that is the case, just close the ALEKS window. When you log on again later, ALEKS will bring you to the point at which you left off. What if my computer crashes while taking the assessment? If you have computer problems, you should be able to log back into the ALEKS assessment and resume testing. When you log on again, ALEKS will bring you to the point at which you left off. What type of computer do I need to use? The ALEKS assessment requires a browser that is Java-enabled, and you must install the ALEKS plug-in described below. The assessment may be taken on a PC (Windows) or Mac (OS10 or higher), using any of the following browsers: Explorer 7.0 or higher, Firefox 3.0 or higher, Chrome 4.0 or higher, or Safari 3.0 or higher. Additional information is online at: Do I need to install any plug-ins prior to taking the ALEKS Assessment? Yes. Go to the main ALEKS web page at: Press the DOWNLOADS link at the upper right. Follow the instructions to install the necessary software on your computer. After installation of the ALEKS plug-in, you may be directed to close all browser windows and restart your browser or to reboot your computer. After that you can go to your myMemphis account,log in, and access the assessment. ALEKS is cross-platform accessible. If there is difficulty installing the plug-in see: For troubles related to Next Generation java, see How do I access the ALEKS assessment from a University of Memphis TigerLan computer? Click on the Start Menu. Click on the "All Programs" section. Click on the "UMware" folder. Click on the sub directory entitled "Aleks Math Placement Assessment." Click on the link entitled "Aleks Testing." Clicking on the "Aleks Testing" link will launch Internet Explorer with the ALEKS placement plugin pre-installed. You will be directed immediately to the myMemphis web portal where you can initiate the ALEKS placement testing as previously dictated. How many questions are on the test? Students complete a maximum of 30 questions. None of the questions are multiple-choice. Once I answer a question, can I go back and change my answer? Once you submit an answer, you cannot change it. You should keep this in mind while testing. May I use a calculator while using ALEKS? ALEKS will provide an on-screen calculator if you need one to complete a particular problem. Otherwise, you may not use a calculator. May I use other resources during a placement assessment? You may only use a pen or pencil, paper and the resources provided by ALEKS. You may not receive assistance from friends, family, other websites, textbooks, or any other resource not provided by ALEKS. Using outside resources may lead to improper placement and ultimately course failure. How is my score calculated? Your placement result is your percentage mastery on the highest assessment. Course placement is determined as follows: Pie chart ALEKS chooses each question on the basis of a student's answers to all the previous questions. Each student, and therefore each set of assessment questions, is unique. It is impossible to predict the questions that will be asked. By the time a student has completed the assessment, ALEKS has developed a precise picture of his or her knowledge of the course, and has identified which topics in the course the student has and has not mastered. An overview of how ALEKS works is available online at: How can I find out what score I need on the ALEKS Assessment? After you have completed the ALEKS Assessment, check with your advisor regarding the appropriate course for your major. Please refer to the chart below for course placement. ALEKS Score Courses That Can Be Taken Based on Major 0 - 13 Students must complete the ALEKS Learning Module. A minimum score of 14 is required to enroll in a math course at the University of Memphis. 14 - 29 MATH 1100 Combo MATH 1420 Combo 30 - 45 MATH 1710 Combo MATH 1420 46 - 60 MATH 1710 MATH 1530 MATH 1480 61 - 75 MATH 1720 MATH 1730 MATH 1830 76 and above MATH 1910 How can I find my ALEKS score after taking the assessment? Immediately after completing the ALEKS Assessment, you will be shown a pie chart which indicates your placement result score on the ALEKS Assessment. The percentage score above the pie chart area is your ALEKS score (Placement Result: 93%). You can log back in to the ALEKS math placement website to view the pie chart (View Previous Results) at a later time. Clicking on the subject headings will allow you to view topics you are ready to learn. Will my ALEKS assessment score be posted to my academic transcript? Your ALEKS score will not appear on your academic transcript. If I take the ALEKS assessment more than once, which score will be used for placement in a math course? The highest ALEKS score will be used for math placement. What if I do not place into the course I wanted? After 48 hours, you can take another ALEKS assessment. However, it is recommended that you use the Prep and Learning Module to review and learn, and then take another placement assessment to improve your placement result. I DID NOT PLACE INTO THE CLASS I WANTED. CAN I TAKE IT ANYWAY? No, you must achieve the minimum placement result to take each corresponding class. What can I do if I am not satisfied with my score? Students receive four assessments after the initial one. The second assessment may be started 48 hours after the first assessment. However, we encourage students to spend several hours in the Prep and Learning Module before taking another assessment. Most students do not improve their score until they utilize the Prep and Learning Module to work on their math skills. Before the third ALEKS assessment, students must work in the Learning Module for 3 hours. Between the third and fourth assessment, students must work in the Learning Module for at least 3 hours. After the fourth assessment, students must work at least 3 hours in the learning module before they can take the fifth assessment. WHAT IS THE PREP AND LEARNING MODULE? After the assessment, a targeted Prep and Learning Module is available for you to review and learn material, and to improve placement and eventual course outcomes. All students are strongly encouraged to spend several hours using the ALEKS Prep and Learning Module. Even if you have achieved placement in your desired course, time spent in ALEKS will better prepare you for your upcoming course and ultimately lead to better grades. Students must begin the Learning Module within 6 months of completing the initial ALEKS assessment. HOW LONG CAN I USE THE PREP AND LEARNING MODULE? Once students log into the Prep and Learning Module, they may use it for up to 6 months. Students using the learning module should check the email account provided to ALEKS for reminders about the amount of time remaining in the learning module. Once the 6 month period is up, students cannot receive additional time in the learning module. DOES PROGRESS IN AN ALEKS PREP AND LEARNING MODULE COUNT TOWARD PLACEMENT? No, you must complete a new placement assessment to change your placement result. Click on the Placement tab on the upper right of the page from within ALEKS. Only your placement assessment results will be used for course placement. What if I placed into the class I wanted? Congratulations! Continue to use your Prep and Learning Module to improve your chances for success. The placement result above is the minimum preparation required for your course! Take advantage of the targeted review and learning features in ALEKS to get a better grade in your class. Technical Support How do I get technical support for ALEKS? Disability Related Services Who to contact for accomodations. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .