#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/acct/2015FACCT3310M50.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus Cost Accounting - ACCT 3310 M50 20158091709 Cost Accounting Fall 2015 3 Credit Hours Last updated: 8 / 2 1 /2015 Instructor: Dr. Charles Bailey , Professor of Accountancy Phone : (901) 678 - 5614 E - mail: cbailey2@memphis.edu Office: #212 Fogelman College of Bus iness and Economics Office Hours: Wednesday 4:00 5:30 and 6:00 7:00 p.m. or by appointment Course Overview Cost systems, including job order, process, and standard, as management information systems for planning and control. Allocation of indirect costs , preparation of variable budgets, and determination of standard co st variances and their meaning. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: Prerequisite : ACCT 2020 Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : Fundamentals of Cost Accounting 4 th edition, by Lanen, Anderso n and Maher. Publisher McGraw - Hill. The ISBN of the book itself is 9780078025525, but it is packaged with Connect Plus at the bookstore under a special ISBN (9780077729837). o Note: Do not let anyone mislead you that you can do without the book. While that m ay have been feasible (although undesirable) in the past, it no longer is. If you purchase the textbook elsewhere, rent the textbook, or buy the textbook used , you will need to go to the McGraw - Hill website for the book to purchase Connect. Please go to - bailey - fall - 2015 - online - cost to purchase Connect. o How do Connect and Connect Plus differ? ronic version of the textbook. With Connect Accounting Plus , you also get 24/7 online access to an eBook an online edition of the text to aid you in successfully completing your work, wherever and whenever you choose. 2 Location of Course Materials : The class home page will be located at: . This page will contain all the instructions for this class. To log on, you need your University of Memphis UUID and password. If you have trou ble logging on, first try to see if you can fix the problem. If not, call 901 678 - 8888 or go to Computer Services on the first floor of the Administrative building. The textbook material with homework and exams i s at - bailey - fall - 2015 - online - cost . Course Objectives : You will learn to generate and cr itically analyze cost accounting information for decision purposes. Cost Accounting is the field of accounting that measures, records, and reports information about costs. Although it plays a part in financial reporting, the primary focus is on se of such data for decision making . Because the managers make decisions just for their own organization, the information need not be comparable to similar information in other organizations. Instead, the important criterion is that information be relevant for the decisions of managers operating in a particular business environment with a particular strategy. If you hope to become a successful investor or manager, or simply want a better understanding of your own financial situation, the concepts in the cou rse will help improve your decision - making. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree BBA ACCT ingOutcomes.pdf Course Methodology This is an Internet - based, distance learning course. Online computer - assisted learning is asynchronous (i.e., takes place outside the classroom). If this is your first on - line course, it is completely alter your mindset as to your role as a student and my role as your instru ctor. Your role as a student in this course is to be an active learner. This is different even from other, more traditional modes of non - passive learning such as group partici pation or discussion seminars. Active learning in thi s context entails aggressively seeking and assimilating the packets of knowledge. My role as instructor is to guide, focus, and critique your learning experience. I do this by assigning projects, discussions, and quizzes that test your reading comprehensio n and direct your attention to specific accounting issues identified in the textbook. As an active learner, you seek out the information you need to address the issues. As in a traditional classroom, chapters must be completed according to the sch edule. 3 The quizzes, homework and projects all have specific start and close dates , and are listed in chronological order on the Content page of the class and included in the class Calendar . See the Summary of Deadlines on the last page of this Syllabus . Most projects will be completed in Excel and uploaded to the appropriate dropbox. If you are not confident with Excel, there is an Excel 2010 video tutorial on my eCoursew are Content page to help bring you up to speed. Homework assignments must be completed in McGraw - Hill Connect. Once an assignment closes, it normally will not be opened again and, if missed, will result in a zero for that assignment. What are the main reas on students fail in an online course? Some students lack the self - discipline required to complete an online course. You should class. Then you need to set asi de an additional three to six hours a week for the assignments and reading time again, just as you would if you were taking a traditional lecture class. Most importantly, pay attention to the timeline . Other students do complete the pro jects and homework assignments on time, but do not understand the underlying ideas so that they can apply them on the exams, where they must earn 108 points (60%) to pass the course; see details below). This is a sad case, but is possible to submit correct answers to assignments without really understanding, by access to test banks, discussions with students, etc. While it may be satisfying to see Correct! appear when you enter a number in a project spreadsheet, if you got the answer by random trial or from someone else, you have learned nothing. So, as the next section emphasizes, please be sure that you understand why you are doing whatever is involved in an assignment. Grading and Evaluation Criteria On eCourseware, you will find your scores under the fo llowing specific headings: Possible Points Quizzes (under Quizzes on eCourseware) 90 Discussions (on eCourseware) 12 Homework (on Connect) 140 Projects (on eCourseware) 140 Exams (on Connect; 3@ 60 points) 180* Total Points 562** * The total of the exams must be 108 points (60%) or above to pass! If not, you will make an F in the course REGARDLESS of the point system listed above. This is School e exceptions . No extra credit can compensate for exam grades. Excel skills are crucial for accountants, so the more you can learn during your coursework, the better. Excel has a huge number of capabilities, and I hav e found that a way exists to do almost anything you may need to do. While I know a lot about Excel, I learn new tricks and skills almost every week . This course does not require advanced skills, but the project submissions must include formulas in the spre adsheets for any cell that represents the result of a calculation . For example, do not calculate a sum of cells A1 through A3 on your calculator and type it into a cell ; use a function 4 **Note that 12 bonus in this same section . Your final grade will be determined based on the total points earned, as follows: A 506 to 562 D 337 to 392 B 450 to 505 F 332 to 336 C 393 to 449 I will not apply the +/ - grading scale. Q uizzes: The 1 8 quizzes are worth 5 points each, for a total of 90 points. Quizzes consist of one covering the syllabus and code of ethics; one c overing each of the 14 chapters ; and a You will have two chances to take the quiz. Incorrect answers are listed after the quiz is submitted, and the highest score is recorded. The quizzes have stated start and end dates and will not be available after the end date. All quizzes are due by 11:59 p.m. on the due date. You may use the text and any other legitimate resource to answer the quizzes. Projects: Projects consist of Excel spreadsheet problems from the book that are to be downloaded from Course Content for each chapter. (Very important: Do not copy or share these Excel file on penalty of plagiarism. See more below.) There will be an assignment listed under eCourseware for ea ch chapter. The projects must be uploaded to the dropbox by 11:59 p.m. on the due date . Do not email them to me. Exams: There are three exams on Connect, each covering a third of the book. The exams are on McGraw - Hill Connect. There are practice exams (Moc k Exams) to go with each one. The exam can be taken at any time over a pre - set period; however, once you begin the exam, you cannot stop it . The exams are timed. Once the time expires, the exam is automatically submitted. You have only one chance to comple te the exam, so be absolutely certain you are ready to begin and have uninterrupted time before starting. Discussions: I want to get to know as many of my students as possible. It also maximizes your online experience if you learn about each other. In the discussion area ( Discussions on right - hand top of eCourseware page next to Email ) there is a forum that asks you to write something about yourself An important aspect of the learning experience is classroom interaction and discussion. In an online class, this is accomplished through the discussion 5 area. The discussion area has four Forums set up for you. (Forums 1, 3, and 4 are eligible for credit; see grading details.) Forum 1 is for you r introduction . Explain what your major is, your future plans, etc. in the forum. To get you off to a good start, you will receive 5 points for writing about yourself in the forum by September 1 st ! . Forum 2 is where you should ask me questions about chapter assignments, etc., and view responses to questions other students have asked . Forum 3 is the area for you to interact with other students to discuss or debate specific assigned topics. These topics cover ethical dilemmas or other current issues. You can receive up to 5 points for each topic, so t o earn full credit (12 points), yo u must select at least three topics to research and comment on. You may answer someone else's comment, or start your own thread; however, the comment should be well - thought out and must add to the topic presented (as judged by the instructor) . The availabl e times to participate in the topics are from about 8 am on the day the topic opens until 11:59 pm on the day the topic closes. I will announce these dates with s ome lead time. You are expected to earn 12 points. Additional points earned will count as extra, bonus credit. I will be generous in allowing c introducing yourself, as explained above), but points beyond 12 will have to be for rigorous and well - researched contributions . The extra points will be limited to another 12 points. Fo rum 4 is to report any errors you discover in the textbook, homework, or Excel projects. The textbook authors (and, yes, even your professor!) make mistakes, and I want to reduce confusion by spotting them as early as possible. The first person to point ou t a specific mistake, by first posting it in this forum and then emailing me , will receive a two points of extra credit. The time of posting in the forum will determine which individual receives credit. As explained above, the expected , points for forums is 12, but 12 more potential points are available. These cannot substitute for the minimum required exam score . Final Course Grades [ See Grading and Evaluation Cri teria , above ] Course Topics Although I reserve the right to adjust the content of the course, I expect to cover the following topics (14 chapters) : Chapter 1; Cost Accounting: Information for Decision Making Chapters 2; Cost Concepts and Behavior Chapter 3; Fundamentals of Cost - Volume - Profit Analysis Chapter 4; Fundamentals of Cost Analysis for Decision Making Chapter 5; Cost Estimation Chapter 6; Fundamentals of Product and Service Costing Chapter 7; Job Costing Chapter 8; Process Costing Chapter 9; Acti vity - Based Costing Chapter 11; ABC Management Service Department 6 C hapter 12; Fundamentals of Management Control Systems Chapter 13; Planning & Budgeting Chapter 14; Business Unit Chapter 16; Fundamentals of Variance Analysis Final Exam Schedule The final exam is the third exam , which will be due on the last day of the final exam period, Thursday, December 10 , 2015. Note that the official final exam schedule is at the academic calendar website . Course Policies E - MAIL: The best way to contact me is by email at cbailey2@memphis.edu . I normally respond quickly. Attendanc e: No on - campus attendance is required . Academic Integrity: What d The Fogelman College of Business (FCBE ) has established a standard set of guidelines for all students taking courses or pursuing a degree through the college. You should take the time to review the information on the Fog elman College Academic Integrity website and follow up with your course instructor if you have any questions. Why is it important in the Fogelman College? Honesty and inte grity is an important aspect to being successful in business and industry and the Fogelman College of Business strives to produce graduates who provide the highest level of knowledge and competence in their field, but do so ethically and by not cutting cor ners. The greatest reward for being honest in your academic work is not by avoiding getting You get that professional reward by investing the necessary effort to succe ed based on individual performance. Not only is that the right thing to do from an academic perspective, but it also helps you be even more prepared for professional success outside the classroom. How Academic Integrity is reinforced and achieved in this c ourse: In this course, you will be assessed on your knowledge of the content in a variety of ways. Specific expectations of academic honesty will be reinforced this semester as follows: Quizzes To be completed on your own Written assignments submitted vi a the dropbox [See Special Notice below.] 7 Misconduct in Online Classes Just as in a traditional classroom setting, students in fully online classes in the Fogelman College of Business are expected to behave in a professional and collegial manner. Inappropr iate behavior in an online learning space can be just as disruptive to the learning experience as in regular classroom situation. Therefore, online students are required to adhere to the same professional, legal and ethical standards of conduct online as o n campus. sending e - mail, posting comments to the discussion board, and while participating in other means of communicating online. The Fogelman College of Busines guidelines at Special Notice from Professor Bailey: As defined at , plagiarism ur own work that is copied from another person or source is plagiarism. This is particularly relevant to the Excel Projects and Exams in this course. It is appropriate that you have access to the book and notes while taking your exams . The answers are to be your own work, of course. Methods are available to detect patterns of or the Solutions Manual . Several codes are imbedded in the Excel files for your Projects that will prove whether the file is the origi nal file that you downloaded this semester or was copied. Do not copy If it is copied, both the individual submitting the copied file, and the individual it came from, will be charged wit h plagiarism and will have two choices: Challenge the decision after seeing my digital trail of evidence; or Sign a statement admitting plagiarism and receive a maximum of course. The statement will be forwarded to the Office of Student Conduct. Late Assignments: Assignments normally will not be accepted after the deadline, but I will attempt to accommodate your needs in case of emergency, Extra Credit: None beyond the points described under Grading and Evaluation Criteria will be allowed. The Fogelman College appropriately requires the following statement : Should your take steps as described on the campus Office of Student Conduct website 8 Stude nt Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Advising Services for Fogelman Students Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Technical Assistance Summary of Deadlines I have tried to keep the schedule consistent and eas y to remember, so you c an keep track the deadlines: The materials through Ch . 1 (including a quiz on the Syllabus) are due by September 1 (Tuesday) . This allows you a littl e longer in this start - up phase. Assignments for future chapters are due on Sunda y of each week ( starting Sept. 6) . The three exams are a vailable on the following dates (with practice exams available a few days ahead : Exam 1 : Oct. 1 through Oct. 4 Exam 2 : Nov. 2 through Nov. 8 Exam 3 : Dec. 7 through Dec. 10 Discussion topic s will be announced by email during the course .