#http://www.memphis.edu/indium/faculty-fujiwara/
Tomoko Fujiwara - INDIUM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. INDIUM Research Students Faculty Facilities Equipment Funding Home INDIUM Tomoko Fujiwara Tomoko Fujiwara Associate Professor, Chemistry Phone 901.678.3447 Email tfjiwara@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.3447 Office SM 409 Office Hours Call for hours Department of Chemistry Profile Fujiwara Research Group Research Interest Smart polymers Research Overview Fujiwara group develops polymeric materials that possess "smart" properties and functions. We design and synthesize stimuli-responsive polymers for use as biomaterials, sensors, and other application materials. Also a variety of polymer "nano-architectures" such as nanoparticles, micelles, nanofibers, and nano-porous membranes are prepared and the structure-property relationship is studied. Stimuli-responsive biodegradable hydrogels: The aim of this project is to understand the gelation mechanism of the thermo-responsive hydrogels and to apply for injectable drug/gene delivery systems. We have developed novel 'hybrid' injectable hydrogel systems from micelle Functional nano-porous membrane preparation. blends of enantiomeric polylactide-poly(ethylene glycol) block copolymers, PLLA-block-PEG and PDLA-block-PEG. We use various techniques such as liquid/solid state NMR, Rheology, atomic force microscopy (AFM), light scattering (DLS/SLS), and synchrotron SANS and SAXS, to study the mechanism and nanostructures. The nanoparticles encapsulating gene in the core have shown promising performance, and their hydrogel system has also been applied. Functional nano-porous polymeric membranes: This project controls nanoscale morphologies using block copolymers and different functional groups. We prepare nano-phase separated membranes from block copolymers including degradable polymer block(s). Degradation of one phase of the membranes results in controlled nanoporous membrane template. These membrane templates are ready for further functionalization to create various types of pore properties that serve for separation applications and specific ion channels. Current Funding NSF-EPSCoR, Millhorn (PI), 9/10-7/15, Tennessee Solar Conversion and Storage using Outreach, Research and Education (TNSCORE), Role: subcontract co-PI FedEx Institute Technology, Haggard (PI), 1/13-12/15, Smart Multiple Stimuli-Responsive Biomaterials For Local Drug Delivery, Role: Co-PI ZAF-University of Tennessee Knoxville, Zawodzinski (PI), 7/2013-6/2015, Anion Exchange Membrane Development for Zinc-Air Batteries, Role: Co-PI FedEx Institute Technology, Bumgardner (PI), 4/2014-3/2015, In vivo Evaluation of Chitosan Guided Bone Regeneration Membranes, Role: Co-PI Publications since 2014-2015 (out of 48) 1. Watkins DL, Fujiwara T. Bis-spironaphthooxazine based photochromic polymer materials. Journal of Materials Chemistry C. 2013;1(3):506-14. doi: 10.1039/c2tc00098a. 2. Ajiro H, Takahashi Y, Akashi M, Fujiwara T. Surface control of hydrophilicity and degradability with block copolymers composed of lactide and cyclic carbonate bearing methoxyethoxyl groups. Polymer. 2014;55(16):3591-8. doi: 10.1016/j.polymer.2014.06.011. 3. Akagi T, Fujiwara T, Akashi M. Inkjet Printing of Layer-by-Layer Assembled Poly(lactide) Stereocomplex with Encapsulated Proteins. Langmuir. 2014;30(6):1669-76. doi: 10.1021/la404162h. PubMed PMID: 24460124. 4. Nakajima M, Nakajima H, Fujiwara T, Kimura Y, Sasaki S. Nano-Ordered Surface Morphologies by Stereocomplexation of the Enantiomeric Polylactide Chains: Specific Interactions of Surface-Immobilized Poly(D-lactide) and Poly(ethylene glycol)-Poly(L-lactide) Block Copolymers. Langmuir. 2014;30(46):14030-8. doi: 10.1021/la503294v. PubMed PMID: 25365934. 5. Takemura K, Ajiro H, Fujiwara T, Akashi M. Oil gels with a chemically cross-linked copolymer of a trimethylene carbonate derivative and L-lactide: preparation and stereocomplex formation within gels. Rsc Advances. 2014;4(63):33462-5. doi: 10.1039/c4ra05341a. 6. Abebe DG, Kandil R, Kraus T, Elsayed M, Merkel OM, Fujiwara T. Three-Layered Biodegradable Micelles Prepared by Two-Step Self-Assembly of PLA-PEI-PLA and PLA-PEG-PLA Triblock Copolymers as Efficient Gene Delivery System. Macromol Biosci. 2015; online published. doi: 10.1002/mabi.201400488. 7. Takemura K, Ajiro H, Fujiwara T, Akashi M. A Novel Substrate for Testosterone: Biodegradable and Biocompatible Oil Gel. Polymer Journal. 2015; in press. 8. Kogame C, Kida T, Fujiwara T, Akashi M. Unique Cation Binding Capability of Cyclic Oligo(L-lactic acid) (L-COLA). Tetrahedron Letters. 2015; online published. doi: 10.1016/j.tetlet.2015.02.037. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .