#http://www.memphis.edu/dualenrollment/pdfs/faq_juniors_2015_2016.pdf
Dual Enrollment Grant 2015 - 2016 Frequently Asked Questions 2015 - 2016 Juniors 1) If I am a Junior during the 2015 - 2016 academic year and I take my first dual enrollment course , how much grant money can I receive? Juniors who take their first dual enrollment course and who have been a Tennessee resident for 12 months prior to the date of application will be eligible to receive up to a $500 dual enrollment grant. 2) If I am a Junior during the 2015 - 2016 academic year and I take my second dual enr ollment course , how much grant money can I receive? Juniors who take their second dual enrollment course and who have been a Tennessee resident for 12 months prior to the date of application will be eligible to receive up to a $500 dual enrollment grant. 3) How much will I receive if I take my first and second dual enrollment courses in the same semester? Juniors who have a minimum 21 ACT Composite (980 SAT) or a minimum 3.0 High School G.P.A. have the opportunity to take a second dual enrollment course in t he same semester. Juniors who take their first and second dual enrollment grant courses in the same semester may receive up to $1,000 (up to $500 for each course) . Home school students must have a minimum 21 ACT Composite (980 SAT) in order to take a se cond dual enrollment grant course in one semester and may receive up to $1,000 (up to $500 for each course) . 4) H ow much dual enrollment grant money will I be eligible to receive for my third dual enrollment course ? When you take your third dual enrollment course, you will be eligible to receive up to a $200 dual enrollment grant as long as you maintain a minimum 2.75 college G PA. 5) How much dual enrollment grant money will I be eligible to receive for my fourth dual enrollment course? You wil l not be eligible to receive any dual enrollment grant money for your fourth dual enrollment course. 6) In my junior year, w hat is the maximum amount of grant money that I will be eligible to receive each academic year? Students may receive up to $1,200 each academic year , provided the student has met the HOPE eligibility requirements to do so. 7) After I take four dual enrollment courses , will I be eligible to receive dual enrollment grant money? Y es, you will be eligible to start borrowing from your HO PE Scholarship beginning with your fifth dual enrollment grant course . This will allow you to receive up to $100 per credit hour . Funds received for the fifth through eighth courses will be deducted from your HOPE Scholarship on a dollar for dollar basis until the funds are repaid. As mentioned in question two, s tudents who have met the continuing GPA requirement and have a minimum 21 ACT Composite or 3.0 High School GPA may take a second course . This will allow the student to receive the award for two courses (up to $600 per semester). Home school students must have a 21 ACT Composite (980 SAT) in order to receive funding for a second dual enrollment grant course . 8) If I am a Junior, can I use all $1,200 of my allotted dual enrollment grant within the same semester? No. Juniors may use up to $1,000 of the dual enrollment grant during one semester if they take their first and second courses in the same term . The $200 dual enrollment grant for the third dual enrollment course may be used the following semester. 9) How do I maintain dual enrollment grant eligibility semester to semester? Students must maintain a minimum 2.75 college GPA for continued grant eligibility. 10) If I am a Junior and I take one dual enrollment course during the fall semester of my Junior year and one dual enrollment course during the spring semester of my Junior year, how much dual enrollment grant money will I be eligible to receive for my third dual enrollment course during the fall semester of my Senior year? You will be eligible to receive up to a $200 dual enrollment grant for your third course. You will not be eligible for any dual enrollment grant assistance for your fourth dual enrollment cou r se. 11) If I use $1,000 of dual enrollment grant funding academic year since dual enrollment students can use up to $1 ,200 of dual enrollment grant each academic year? You will receive up to a $200 dual enr ollment grant for your third dual enrollment course and you would not receive any funding for your fourth course. You will be allowed to start borrowing from your HOPE scholarship beginning with your fifth dual enrollment c ourse as stated in question # 7 . 12) If I take my first dual enrollment course during my Junior year and then take my second dual enrollment course during my Senior year, how much grant money will I receive per class? You will receive up to $500 for the first course if you meet the Tennessee residency requirements. You will receive up to $500 for the second course i f you maintain a minimum 2.75 college GPA.