#http://www.memphis.edu/bursar/fees/deadlines.php
Fee Payment Policies - Bursar's Office - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Bursar's Office Staff Directory Fees Calendars Students Parents Campus Card Fees Fee Charts Fee Payment Policies Deadlines, Refunds &amp; Important Dates Fee Payment Methods Installment Payment Plan Explanation of Fees Financial Assistance/ Sponsorships General Info Fee Discounts &amp; Waivers Fee Adjustment (Refund) Policy Home Bursar's Office Fees Fee Payment Policies Fee Payment Policies for All Students IMPORTANT NOTICE YOU are responsible for compliance with the following policies. Please read before registering. FEE PAYMENT POLICY: Deletion of classes for non-payment will be before the first day of class for the semester. Carefully review the registration dates and the corresponding fee payment/deletion deadlines on the Bursar Calendar . FEE WAIVERS (Special Programs): ATTENTION STATE EMPLOYEES WHO USE PC-191/PC-1047 AND STUDENTS WHO USE THE SENIOR CITIZEN AND DISABLED FEE WAIVER PROGRAMS: Please refer to the Bursar Calendar and select the appropriate term for the official registration date prior to registering for courses under these special fee waiver programs. Registration for courses under these programs prior to the date listed on the Bursar calendar will not be eligible for the fee waiver program. For more information regarding these programs, see Fee Payment Methods . COURSE DELETION: Registration is subject to deletion if fee payment requirements for enrollment fees are not satisfied by the appropriate fee payment deadline listed in the Bursar Calendar . Unless your financial aid, scholarship, and/or third party assistance covers 100% of your enrollment fees, you MUST pay the remaining balance due after awards are applied by the appropriate fee payment deadline. INSTALLMENT PAYMENT PLAN (IPP): The IPP is available for the Fall and Spring Terms. A required initial 50% down payment of the remaining balance of enrollment fees plus a $50 plan enrollment fee is due at the time of sign up on TigerXpress. Please check the Installment Payment Plan Guidelines for more details. IPP is NOT available for the Summer Terms. FEE INVOICES: Students are notified via their UofM email account when an electronic invoice is available online on TigerXpress . Students remain responsible for completing the fee payment process by the fee payment deadline, even if they do not receive a fee invoice. CHECK PAYMENTS: Payments mailed to the Bursar's Office must be received in the Bursar's Office by the appropriate fee payment deadline, regardless of the post mark date on the envelope. Please allow 5-7 days for processing. The University of Memphis processes paper checks electronically. When you provide a check as payment (in-person, by mail, or through our drop box) you authorize the use of information from your check to make a one-time electronic funds transfer from your account. In certain circumstances, such as for technical or processing reasons, we may process your check as a check transaction. For your reconciliation purposes, these checks will appear on your monthly bank statement as an Electronic Debit. If a check/draft or credit card payment used to satisfy enrollment fees is returned dishonored by your financial institution, you will be assessed a $100 Late Payment Fee, in addition to a $30 Returned Check Fee, and your registration may be deleted. WITHDRAWALS: DO NOT wait for the University to delete your registration due to nonpayment. Students are responsible for their own enrollment status. If you register and decide not to attend, you MUST withdraw from all classes prior to the first day of classes on myMemphis Student Self Service to ensure that you will not owe fees and receive an "F" grade. After the first day of class, if you decide not to attend or drop a course(s); you must drop that course(s) from your schedule. Your fees for dropping courses maybe adjusted based on the refund policy in effect on the date you drop. Withdrawals by Students Receiving Financial Aid: Dropping your last course (totally withdrawing) after the first day of class and before 60% of the term has been completed will reduce your aid eligibility and may result in your having to REPAY FUNDS to the University and/or the Department of Education. For detailed information, please visit Financial Aid website . NON-ATTENDANCE: Students will not be dropped from classes for failure to attend. If you register and decide not to attend, you MUST withdraw on myMemphis Student Self Service before the beginning of classes for the term to avoid owing significant fees, receiving "F" grades, and being liable for repayment of financial aid funds. REINSTATEMENTS: Students whose classes are deleted for non-payment after the late registration fee payment deadline and whose request to be reinstated for all parts-of-term courses is approved must prepay all fees in full (IPP is not available), including the assessment of a $100 Late Registration Fee and a $100 Late Payment Fee prior to being reinstated. Please Note: Students whose classes are deleted for non-payment prior to the official first day of class for the semester will reregister on myMemphis Student Self Service and may be assessed a $100 Late Registration Fee. REGISTERING AFTER LATE REGISTRATION: Students who receive permission to register after Late Registration from the Dean of their major must prepay all fees in full (IPP is not available), including the assessment of a $100 Late Registration Fee and $100 Late Payment Fee prior to being registered. The University reserves the right to make changes to the schedule as necessary to be consistent with Tennessee Board of Regents policies and procedures. Fees Fee Charts Fee Payment Policies Deadlines, Refunds &amp; Important Dates Fee Payment Methods Installment Payment Plan Explanation of Fees Financial Assistance/ Sponsorships General Info Fee Discounts &amp; Waivers Fee Adjustment (Refund) Policy TigerXpress View your statements and pay fees online in TigerXpress. Tuition Estimator How much will your courses cost? Get an estimate online! Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the U of M Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/8/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .