#http://www.memphis.edu/indium/faculty-huang/
Xiaohua Huang - INDIUM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. INDIUM Research Students Faculty Facilities Equipment Funding Home INDIUM Xiaohua Huang Xiaohua Huang Assistant Professor Phone 901.678.1728 Email xhuang4@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.3447 Office SM 209 Office Hours By Appointment Department of Chemistry Profile About Dr. Huang We are working in an interdisciplinary area crossing chemistry, material science, biology and medicine. Our research interests are primarily in the development of novel inorganic nanomaterials and their bioconjugates for cancer detection and treatment. Of particular focuses are colloidal metallic nanoparticles such as gold nanorods (Figure 1A) and dual functional hybrid nanoparticles such as magnetic-plasmonic core-shell nanoparticles (Figure 1B) for cancer detection and treatment. Current projects include: (1) Shape-controlled synthesis of iron oxide-gold core-shell nanoparticles; (2) Capture and detection of circulating tumor cells in whole blood with iron oxide-gold core-shell nanoparticles; (3) Photothermal-chemotherapy of cancer using drug-loaded gold nanorods; and (4) Photothermal-photodynamic therapy of cancer using iron oxide-gold core-shell nanoparticles. A. B. Figure 1: Transmission electron microscopic image of gold nanorods (A) and iron oxide-gold core-shell nanostars (B). Current Funding: FedEx Institute of Technology Innovation Fund Project Title: Capture and detection of circulating tumor cells in whole blood using hybrid nanoparticles and microfluidic devices Duration: 2/1/2014 – 6/30/2015 Amount: $122,919 Role: PI Publications: 1. S. Bhana, Y. Wang, and X. Huang. Nanotechnology for enrichment and detection of circulating tumor cells. Nanomedicine, accepted. Invited review. 2. Y. Wang, Q. He, J. Guo, H. Wei, S. Bhana, X. Huang, Z. Luo, T. Shen, K. Ding, S. Wei, and Z. Guo. Carboxyl multi-walled carbon nanotubes stabilized palladium nanocatalysts with improved methanol oxidation reaction. ChemElectroChem , ASAP. 3. F.R. Madiyar, S. Bhana, L. Swisher, C. Culbertson, X. Huang, and J. Li. Integration of nanostructured dielectrophoretic device and surface enhanced Raman probe for highly sensitive rapid bacteria detection. Nanoscale 2015, 7, 3726-3736. 4. H. Wei, Y. Wang, J. Guo, X. Yan, R. O'Connor, X. Zhang, N.Z. Shen, B.L. Weeks, X. Huang, S. Wei, and Z. Guo. Electropolymerized polypyrrole nanocoatings on carbon paper for electrochemical energy storage. ChemElectroChem. 2015, 2(1), 119-126. 5. E. Chaffin, S. Bhana, R.T. O'Connor, X. Huang, and Y. Wang. Impact of core dielectric properties on the localized surface plasmonic spectra of gold-coated magnetic core–shell nanoparticles. J. Phys. Chem. B. 2014, 118(49), 14076-14084. 6. Y. Wang, Q. He, H. Qu, X. Zhang, J. Guo, J. Zhu, G. Zhao, H.A. Colorado, J. Yu, L. Sun, S. Bhana, M.A. Khan, X. Huang, D.P. Young, H. Wang, X. Wang, S. Wei, and Z. Guo. Magnetic graphene oxide nanocomposites: nanoparticles growth mechanism and property analysis. J. Mater. Chem. C. 2014, 2, 9478-9488. 7. C. Xu, B. Qiu, X. Yan, H. Wei, X. Huang, Y. Wang, D. Rutman, D. Cao, S. Bhana, S. Wei, and Z. Guo. Synergistic interactions between activated carbon fabric and toxic hexavalent chromium. ECS J. Solid State Sci. Technol. 2014, 3, M1-M9. 8. S. Bhana, S.R. Mishra, Y. Wang, and X. Huang. Capture and detection of cancer cells in whole blood with magnetic-optical nano-ovals. Nanomedicine 2014, 9(5), 593-606. 9. F. Ren, S. Bhana, D. Norman, J. Johnson, L. Xu, D.L. Baker, A.L. Parrill, and X. Huang. Gold nanorods carrying paclitaxel for photothermal-chemotherapy of cancer. Bioconjugate Chem. 2013, 24, 376-386. 10. S. Bhana, B.K. Rai, S.R. Mishra, Y. Wang, and X. Huang. Synthesis and properties of near infrared-absorbing magnetic-optical nanopins. Nanoscale 2012, 4, 4939-4942. 11. E.C. Dreaden, A.M. Alkilany, X. Huang, C. Murphy, and M.A. El-Sayed. The golden age: gold nanoparticles for biomedicine. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2012, 41, 2740-2779. Invited review. (Times Cited: 281) Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .