#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/acct/2015FACCT4211M50.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus ACCT 4211/6211 M50 Advanced Financial Reporting Fall Term , 2015 3.0 Credit Hours (Last updated: 8 / 10 / 2015) Instructor: James M. Lukawitz, PhD CPA Phone : 901.678. 3030 E - mail: jlukawtz@memphis.edu Office: FCBE # 226 Office Hours: Monday & Wednesday 12 :30 - 2:00 and 3:45 - 5:00pm and by appointment Course Overview : Business combinations; accounting methods for consolidated financial statements; foreign transactions and accounting for foreign subsidiaries; partnership accounting Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: A CCT Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : Advanced Accounting 12 th Edition by Hoyle, Schaefer and Doupnik, published by McGraw - Hill Connect: On - line Homework Manager (includes e - version of the text so you can simply get Connect if you choose) url for Connect: - lukawitz - advanced - accounting - fall - 2015 Most assignments are to be completed online within Connect, a w eb - based assignment and assessment platform. With Connect Accounting, I will deliver assignments online. You will be given opportunities to practice important skills at your own pace and on your own schedule. With Connect Accounting Plus, you also get 24/7 online access to an eBook an online edition of the text. p. 2 Connect comes free with all new copies of the textbook purchased through the University bookstore and many other sources. A n access code is included that you wi ll need to register with Connect. used text or a new text from certain other sources, it will not include Connect and you will need to purchase an access code from the bookstore or from t website. Here are code to register at the site below: Follow these instructions to register with your section and Connect: Go to the following Web address a nd click the "register now" button: Online Section: m/class/j - lukawitz If you need help with Connect, here are three sources: ( 800 ) 331 - 5094, option 2 Student video tutorials for help embedded within Connect Location of Course Materials : This is a fully online course and all course materials (lectures, discussion topics, news, etc.) are located on the eCourseware web site . The Internet class home page is located in eCourseware at: . This page contains all the instructions for this class. To log on, you need your University of Memphis UUID and password . If you have trouble logging on, first try to see if you can fix the problem. If not, call 678 - 8888 or go to Computer Services on the first floor of the Administrative building. Once logged o n and at the Course Homepage, go to Course Content . To successfully Read the chapter. While reading, take notes of the important items covered. Pay particular attention to the learning objectives listed at the beginning of the chapter. Rework examples in the chapter to make sure you understand the concepts covered. Expect to spend 3 h ours per chapter reading. Answer the Quizzes . Quizzes are attached to the 7 chapters in eCourseware. Be sure to pay attention to the schedule because the quiz questions will open and close at the approximate times the chapters are covered. You will hav e two opportunities to take each quiz. Incorrect answers are listed after the quiz is submitted, and the highest score is recorded. The quizzes have stated start and end dates and will not be available after the end date! All quizzes are due by 11:59 pm on the due date. You should be able to find the answers to all quiz questions in the text, but you may use any legitimate source in doing so. However, do not collaborate with any other person. Do your own work! Watch and download PowerPoint Tutorials fr om the course Content and print. The slides should be reviewed and added to your notebook. Your notebook should contain the printed slides, notes, and problem solutions by chapter. The notebook will assist you with reviewing and preparing for the midterm and final exams. p. 3 To download, simply click on the file name and select Open or Save. You can save to jump drive or your computer. To print the file: 1. Open the file in PowerPoint. DO NOT CLICK THE PRINT ICON ON THE TASK BAR. 2. From the menu bar at the top of the screen, click on File. 3. On the drop - down menu, select Print. 4. Next to Print What: Select Handout and either 3 or 6 per page . 5. Click OK to print Solve Assignments in Connect. Open the Connect website, log in and select the current chapter. Go first to the PRACTICE SET for the chapter. Work a minimum of 5 problems. You should print the problem and solve it on paper. You can input the answers on Connect having difficulty solving the problem, submit it. This will allow you to see the answer and work the problem out correctly. Once you have worked the practice problems, open the required proble ms in Connect and solve them. You may work the problems as many times as you like up until the close date. The highest grade will be used. The problems selected are algorithmic (each time they are worked, there will be different numbers). All of the re quired assignment problems are also included in the practice assignment problems except the numbers are different. Expect to spend 2 3 hours working each Solve the Project for the chapter from the Course Content and save it to y our computer and read the instructions. Solve the problem using the spreadsheet. When you have completed the spreadsheet, upload it to the indicated DROPBOX in eCourseware. If you a re having difficulty completing the problem, see if there is a narrated slide offering tips, find the practice problem in Connect like the project and work it out, and go to Discussions to find assistance from your classmates or from me. Please try these approaches before emailing me with questions . Interact in the Discussion Area. eCourseware contains a DISCUSSION AREA with which you should become familiar and use frequently. The discussion area is a means of contacting other students in the class and is an appropriate place to discuss homework problems, ask non - personal questions , etc. I will be monitoring the discussion board every day and will intervene with comments and corrections as necessary. I encourage you to help your classmates if you know the answer to their question. It is not appropriate to share entire solutions he re. For more information, go to the Discussions heading under Grading belo w: Course Objectives : After completing this course you should: 1. Describe in general the various methods of accounting for an equity investment p. 4 2. Prepare the journal entry to consolidate the accounts of a subsidiary whether dissolution takes place or not. 3. Identify and describe various methods available to a parent company in order to maintain its investment in subsidiary account in its internal records . 4. Describe the valuation p rinciples underlying the acquisition method of accounting for the noncontrolling interest. 5. Understand why intra - entity asset transfers create accounting effects within the financial records of affiliated companies that must be eliminated or adjusted in pr eparing consolidated financial statements. 6. Describe a variable interest entity, a primary beneficiary and the factors used to decide when a variable interest entity is subject to consolidation 7. Compute taxable income and deferrerd tax amounts for an afflia ted group whether they file consolidated or separate tax returns 8. Understand concepts related to foreign currency, exchange rates, and foreign exchange risk 9. Explain the theoretical underpinnings and the limitations of the current rate and temporal methods. 10. investment 11. Prepare a proposed schedule of liquidation based on safe capital balances to determine an equitable preliminary distribution of available partnership assets. Fogelm an College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the BBA or MS degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with th e overall learning objectives as a student in the BBA or MS ACCT p rogram : comes.pdf Student's Expectations of the Professor : In my role as your instructor, there are certain things you can expect from me including: well - organized and engaging learning experience, r esponse to emails within ONE business day, and feedba ck on all work submitted within 5 - 7 calendar days. Grading and Evaluation Criteria Over the semester, you will have a variety of opportunities to earn points towards your final (overall) letter grade in this course. This section of the syllabus describes the assessed work you will be doing and how overall (final) letter grades will be computed. Final Course Grades Your grade this semester will be determined on the basis of the total points you earn: Exam 1 1 5 0 points Exam 2 150 points Discussions 12 po ints p. 5 Quizzes (found in Connect) 55 points Homework (Found in Connect) 110 points Final Exam (optional) 15 0 points Excel Projects (Ecourseware) 60 points Total 5 37 points NOTE: I will count your two best exams hence the final is optional, but it is comprehensive, if taken it can replace one of your other exams ONLY. IT CANNOT replace any other assignment Percentage Letter Grade 100% - 90% A 89.9% - 80% B 79.9% - 70% C 69.9% - 60% D Below 60% F The grading scale applied to the points for the course represents the guaranteed minimum number of points required to earn any given grade . ** The total of the two exams you keep must be at least 18 0 points (60%) or above to pass! If not, you will earn an F in the course REGARDLESS of the total point s earned ! Periodic Exams The first two exams during the semester will test your knowledge and understanding of the material in the chapters indicated. These exams will consist of multiple - choice questions primarily problems similar to the homework exercises and problems which can be found in C onnect and problems which are in Ecourseware. The multiple choice of the exams are timed, and must be done individually. Although you will have your study materials available to you, because the exams are timed to assume you know the material, you wil l be unsuccessful if you rely on your study materials. Prepare as if you were in a classroom without the aid of those materials. You will not have time to look up answers you do not know. The problems can be done in a group and are untimed. Final Exam The final exam will cove r all chapters. It will follow the same format as the other exams with multiple choice done individually and timed with problems allowed to be done in a group and untimed. Quizzes There is a quiz attached to each of the chapters in Connect . Each set of questions is worth 5 points (for a total of 55 points). Be sure to pay attention to the schedule because the quiz questions will open and close at the approximate times the chapters are covered. You will p. 6 have two op portunities to take each quiz. Incorrect answers are listed after the quiz is submitted, and the highest score is recorded. The quizzes have stated start and end dates and will not be available after the end date! All quizzes are due by 11:59 pm on the d ue date. You should be able to find the answers to all quiz questions in the text, but you may use any legitimate source in doing so. However, do not collaborate with any other person. Do your own work! Projects Projects consist of Excel spreadsheet pro blems from the book that are to be downloaded from Course Content for each chapter. Projects ar e listed under eCourseware . The projects should be uploaded to the dropbox by the due date. Projects will not be graded until after the dropbox closes ; do not email them to me! All projects are due by 11:59 pm on the due date. Each project counts 10 points with me counting your 6 best for a total 60 possible Project points. Homework (called Required Assignments in Connect) There is homework assigned for every chapter. Note the homework is NOT equally weighted per chapter Tenative Schedule: The schedule for the class can be found in a separate file in Final Exam Schedule Since this is an on - line class there is not traditional final schedule. It will be available during the dates listed in the agenda Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all o fficial course correspondence through this email account. ability to r eceive incoming mail in a timely Adding / Dropping : I f you have questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to th is page on the . Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. Note that using a Solutions Manual is considered c heating. p. 7 Should your professor have evidence that using a Solutions Manual has occurred, he/she may take steps Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Student Services Ple ase access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance