#http://www.memphis.edu/libraries/administration/staff.php
Staff - Libraries - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Libraries About Services Resources Instruction Special Collections Technology Administration About Us Staff Hours and Location Library Faculty and Staff Portal Libraries Standing Committees Libraries Organizational Chart Home Libraries Administration Staff Dr. Sylverna Ford, Dean of University Libraries Professor sford@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-2201 Office: McWherter Library: RM 203A Responsibilities: Provides leadership and vision for the centralized system of libraries that serves the information needs of the students, faculty, and staff of the University and the residents of the region. The dean has administrative responsibility for planning, budgeting, and decision making in support of the programs and services of the University Libraries. She represents the University Libraries on campus, in the community, and on the state and national levels. Research Interests: Library cooperation, organizational effectiveness, organizational change, program assessment. Jill Green, Administrative Associate jdgreen6@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-8219 Office: McWherter Library: RM 203H Responsibilities: Provides administrative support to the Dean of University Libraries. T.J. Jackson, Mail Clerk tjjacksn@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-5436 Office: McWherter Library: RM 126B Responsibilities: Oversees University Libraries shipping, receiving, deliveries, and mail services. Shanika Jones, Business Officer II snjones8@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-2209 Office: McWherter Library: RM 203E Responsibilities: Oversees the overall budget of the University Libraries as well as specific project related budgets. Nancy Massey, Personnel Associate nmassey@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-4484 Office: McWherter Library: RM 203G Responsibilities: Provides leadership in personnel matters for the University Libraries. James Singleton, Coordinator of Building Management jesngltn@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-8202 Office: McWherter Library: RM 206 Responsibilities: Supervises the physical maintenance of the McWherter Library building. Anna Swearengen, Community Outreach Associate mswrngen@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-2744 Office: McWherter Library: RM 203F Responsibilities: Provides administrative assistance to the Friends of the University Libraries, the Associate Dean of University Libraries, the Assistant to the Dean for Community Engagement, and the Administration Office. Meg Buchanan, Departmental Support Associate mszpltal@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-4310 Office: McWherter Library: RM 207 Responsibilities: Provides administrative assistance to the various Department Heads and the Administration Office. Administration About Us Staff Hours and Location Library Faculty and Staff Portal Libraries Standing Committees Libraries Organizational Chart My Library Account Review your library account for due dates and more. Interlibrary Loan Request books, articles, and other research materials from other libraries. Reserve space Group study and presentation spaces available in the library. Ask-a-Librarian Got a question? Got a problem? Ask Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .