#http://www.memphis.edu/indium/faculty-mishra/
Sanjay R. Mishra - INDIUM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. INDIUM Research Students Faculty Facilities Equipment Funding Home INDIUM Sanjay R. Mishra Sanjay R. Mishra Dunavant Professor, Director INDIUM Phone 901.678.3115 Email srmishra@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.4733 Office MN 226 (Lab in MN 120 Office Hours Call for hours Department of Physics Profile Research Overview Magnetic Materials: Our research group is actively engaged in developing novel energy-dense and high Curie temperature permanent magnets and oxide magnets. The efforts is towards understanding subtle structure-property relationship in these materials so that novel futuristic materials can be engineered. In achieving these goals, bulk to nanomaterials are synthesized and investigated in our laboratories. Various synthesis processes such as arc melting, high energy ball milling, electroplating, electrodeposition, hydrothermal, and various wet-chemistry methods are employed to engineered novel single phase and nanocomposite magnetic materials. Biomaterials: Our effort in the field of biomaterials is directed towards developing novel iron-oxide nanoparticle-Chitosen composites for drug delivery and wound healing applications. Novel silver loaded CaP nanoshells are developed for bone cancer treatment and bone damage. Supercapacitance Materials: Novel high surface area oxide nanomaterials such as Co3O4, NiCo2O4, etc. and graphene nanocomposites are synthesized and studied towards developing high efficiency supercapacitors. These systems are studied using electrochemistry in our laboratory. Current Funding: NSF-TNSCORE: Acquisition of FTIR, $50,000, 2015, PI NSF-CBET: MRI: Acquisition of field-emission scanning electron microscope (FESEM) for teaching and research, Co-PI, $693,617.00, 2013-2014 FIT: Dual Action Coating for Implants, Co-PI: $95,182. 2013-2015 FIT: Capture and Detection of Circulating Tumor Cells in Whole Blood Using Hybrid Nanoparticles and Microfluidic Devices, Co-PI: $122,91, 2014-2015 FedEx Institute of Technology: "Smart" stimuli responsive Biomaterials, Co-PI, $525K, 2013-2015 FedEx Institute of Technology: Funds to purchase high Frequency Dielectric Analyzer for developing novel Ferrites, $28K, 2013 Publication: 2014-2015 (out of 120) Time-Resolved SANS Analysis of Micelle Chain Exchange Behavior: Thermal Crosslink Driven by Stereocomplexation of PLA-PEG-PLA Micelles, Daniel Ghirmay Abebe; Kwei-Yu Liu ; Sanjay R Mishra, Tomoko Fujiwara, Polymer Chemistry, Submitted July 2015 Engineering of Photosystem I Complexes with Metal-Oxide Binding Peptides for Bioelectronic Applications."Authors: Simmerman, Richard; Zhu, Tuo; Baker, David; Wang, Lijia; Mishra, Sanjay; Lundgren, Cynthia; Bruce, Barry, Bioconjug Chem 2015 Aug 24. Epub 2015 Aug 24. Synthesis of Aluminum doped CoFe2-xAlxO4: Static and dynamic studies, B. Kunar, S. R. Mishra, L. Wang, D. DelConte, D. Neupane, V. Veerakumar, Z. Celinski, Materials Research Bull., Submitted 2015 Near Infrared-absorbing Gold Nanopopcorns with Iron Oxide Cluster Core for Magnetically Amplified Photothermal and Photodynamic Cancer Therapy, X. Huang, S. Bhana, L. Wang, S. Mishra, ACS Applied Materials and Interfaces, Accepted 2015 Time-Resolved SANS Analysis of Micelle Chain Exchange Behavior: Thermal Crosslink Driven by Stereocomplexation of PLA-PEG-PLA Micelles, Daniel G. Abebe, K. Yu, Wei, S. R. Mishra, A. Wu, and T. Fujiwara, Submitted, Macromolecues, 2015 Ultrathin Porous Hierarchically Textured NiCo2O4/Graphene Oxide Flexible Nanosheets for High-Performance Supercapacitors, E. Mitchell, R.K. Gupta, B.K. Gupta, P.K. Kahol, M. Shahabuddin, S.R. Mishra, ACS Nano, Accepted 2015 Structural, Magnetic, and Mossbauer studies of Al3+ substituted Ni0.75Zn0.25Fe2-xAlxO4 nanoferrites. L. Wang. B. K. Rai, and S. R. Mishra, Materials Research Bulletin, Accepted MRB 2014 Surfactant assisted synthesis of aluminum doped SrFe10Al2O19 hexagonal ferrite, D. Neupean and S. R. Mishra, Accepted Journal of Applied Physics, 2015 Synthesis and magnetic properties of SrFe12-x-yAlxCoyO19 nanocomposites prepared via autocombustion technique J.N. Dahal, L. Wang, S.R. Mishra, V.V. Nguyen, J.P. Liu, Journal of Alloys and Compounds, 595 (2014) 213–220 High frequency study of core–shell reusable CoFe2O4–ZnO nanospheres, Bijoy K. Kuanr, V. Veerakumar, S. R. Mishra, Armh3 M. Wilson, Alka V Kuanr, R. E. Camley, Z. Celinski, Journal of Applied Physics, 05/2014; Synthesis and Magnetic Properties of hard-soft SrFe10Al2O19/NiZnFe2O4 nanocomposite Ferrites, B. K. Rai, L. Wang, S. R. Mishra, V. V. Nguyen, and J. P. Liu, Journal of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology, Vol. 14, 5272–5277, 2014. A capture and detection of circulating tumor cells in whole blood with magnetic-optical nanoovals, Bhana, S; Chaffin, E; Wang, Y, Mishra, S. R., and Huang, X, Nanomedicine 2014 Apr;9(5):593-606. doi: 10.2217/nnm.13.77. Department of Physics and Materials Science Profile Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .