#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/acad_reg/cares.php
Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Academic Regulations Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services The academic progress of students at the University of Memphis is monitored at the conclusion of each term enrolled to determine their academic status. Students’ overall combined grade point average AND term grade point average are considered in determining status. There are four progressive levels of academic status: (1) Good Standing (2) Academic Warning (3) Academic Probation (4) Academic Suspension Good Standing Students are in Good Standing at the University of Memphis unless placed on Academic Warning, Academic Probation or Academic Suspension. If a student has never been on Academic Warning, Academic Probation or Academic Suspension… Þ The student remains in Good Standing as long as the overall combined GPA is 2.00 or above AND the term GPA is not lower than 1.00. If a student has been on Academic Warning, Academic Probation or Academic Suspension… Þ The student is expected to maintain a minimum overall combined GPA of 2.00 AND a minimum term GPA of 2.00 in order to remain in good standing. Academic Warning Students can be placed on Academic Warning ONLY ONCE during their enrollment at the University of Memphis. After completing seven (7) hours of coursework, students will be placed on Academic Warning when their overall combined GPA is below 2.00 OR the term GPA is below 1.00. Once students receive an Academic Warning, they must maintain Good Standing or they will be placed on Academic Probation or Academic Suspension. Students who have earned 0-29 semester hours and are placed on Academic Warning must: Successfully complete a workshop and pass the related quiz; Meet with an Academic Coach every other week in the following semester of enrollment; and Submit a Conditional Enrollment Agreement with the Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services, and satisfy the requirements in the Agreement. Students who have earned 30 or more semester hours and are placed on Academic Warning must: Successfully complete an online workshop and pass the related quiz: and Submit a Conditional Enrollment Agreement with the Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services, and satisf the requirements in the agreement. The Academic Warning workshop is available online at . Failure to satisfy these requirements may lead to administrative withdrawal from all classes for any future terms. Academic Probation Any student who has ever been placed on Academic Warning status will be placed on Academic Probation if: Their overall combined GPA is below 2.00, OR The term GPA is below 2.00. NOTE: Students who have regained Good Standing after an Academic Warning are placed on Academic Probation, if, in any subsequent term, their combined GPA falls below a 2.00 OR the term GPA below 2.00. First Academic Probation: All students placed on Academic Probation for the first time will be required to enroll in and complete ACAD 2200: Student Success Seminar (1 semester hour) in the following semester of enrollment. Subsequent/Continuing Probation: Students will remain on Academic Probation if the term GPA is 2.00 or higher but the overall combined GPA remains below 2.00. Students who are placed on Academic Probation more than one time must complete a Conditional Enrollment Agreement with the Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services (CARES) and meet weekly with a CARES counselor. Students on Academic Probation will be required to have an overall combined GPA of at least 2.00 OR a term GPA of at least 2.00 in order to continue enrollment at the University of Memphis. Failure to satisfy these requirements may lead to administrative withdrawal from all classes for any future terms. Academic Suspension Students on Academic Probation will placed on Academic Suspension in the following term if the overall combined GPA is below 2.00 AND the term GPA is below 2.00. Students on Academic Suspension can apply for readmission only after the following minimum periods: For the first Academic Suspension, one regular term (fall or spring) For the second Academic Suspension, one calendar year After a second Academic Suspension, a student may be ineligible for further enrollment at the University of Memphis. Students on academic suspension can apply for readmission only after the following minimum periods: For the first suspension, one regular term (fall or spring). For the second suspension, one calendar year. After a second suspension, a student may be ineligible for further enrollment at the University of Memphis. Students on Academic Suspension who apply for readmission must participate in a readmission interview with a CARES Counselor. Coursework taken at another accredited college or university will be used in determining eligibility for readmission. Students who left the university on Academic Suspension must fulfill all previously attempted high school deficiencies and remedial and developmental coursework requirements before they will be considered for readmission. Students readmitted after Academic Suspension must complete a Conditional Enrollment Agreement, meet weekly with a CARES counselor, and follow all requirements established by the Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services. Failure to follow these requirements may lead to administrative withdrawal from all classes. The Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services, 500 Wilder Tower, is responsible for the administration of this policy. Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .