#http://www.memphis.edu/cas/pdfs/degree-second_major_explanation.pdf
Degrees and Majors When students have completed an undergraduate program at the University of Memphis (UM) , they earn a degree. S everal degrees can be earned at the University of Memphis, and in the College of Arts and Sciences, there are 3: Bachelor of Arts (BA) Bachelor of Science (BS) Bachel or of Science in Chemistry (BSCh ) Bachelor of Arts (BA) ma jors in Arts and Sciences: Bach elor of Science (BS) majors in Arts and Sciences: African and African American Studies Biology Anthropology Chemistry Criminology and Criminal Justice Computer Science Earth Science Mathematical Sciences Economics Physics Foreign Language History Bachelor of Science in Chemistry (BSCh) International studies Chemistry Philosophy Political Science Psychology Social Work Sociology nts that students must meet General Education courses, college or degree requirements, major requirements, and electives to total 120 hours. General Education courses: mphis.edu/ugcatalog/graduation/gened.php Arts and Sciences majors and requirements : Upon graduation, the diploma includes the degree (e.g., Bachelor of Arts) th at students earned, but not the major or majors. The official transcript will show the majors /minors/concentrations a student has earned, as well as the degree. Students with two or more majo rs receive two diplomas only if their majors fall under two different degrees. For example, English and History are included under the BA degree, so a student in those majors would receive just one diploma. A student with a major in Mathematical Science and a major in English would receive 2 degrees/diplomas BS and BA. Special Second Majors earning one degree : A few majors in the College of Arts and Sciences and in the Herff College of Engineering offer a special second major with more streamlined requirements since the two majors are closely related. Students who choose these options receive only one degree, and both majors are listed on the official transcript. These programs are as follows: Computer Science - 2014 and earlier catalogs: Second Major in Co mputer Science for Engineering Majors (33 hours) Second Major in Computer Science for Majors in Biology, Chemistry, Mathematical Sciences, and Physics (34 hours) 2015 catalog: Second Major for students in any other major: Mathematical Sciences - Second Major in Mathematical Sciences for majors in Chemis try, Computer Science , Engineering, and Physics (29 - 30 hours) Physics - Second Major for Engineering Students (29 hours beyond PHYS 2110/2111 and 2120/2121 ) Second Major for the Bachelor of Science Degree (29 hours beyond PHYS 2110/2111 and 2120/2121 ) For the majors in the C ollege of Arts and Sciences with these special second major options (Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Mathematical Sciences, and Physics), students earn only one degree Bachelor of Science since all of these majors are encompassed by that degree. Majors in the College of Engineering who add one of these special second majors will earn one degree in Engineering (Bachelor of Science in Biomedical Engineering, Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering, etc.). S tudents in Engineering majors/degrees may choose to complete the regular major and degree requirements (rather than the S pecial S econd Major options listed above) for Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Mathematical Sciences, or Physics, and then will earn both degrees the Bachelor of Scie nce and the Engineering degree (Bachelor of Science in Biomedical Engineering, Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering, etc.) . Graduated Students R eturning for a Second Major: I f a student completes a BA degree at the University of Memphis with a major in English and returns to complete a major in History, the student will not receive another diploma or degree, only degree already earned. These students do not walk in another Commencement ceremony since they do not receive an additional diploma/degree. Because they have completed the degree requirements and the General Education requirements, students earning a second major complete all major requirements for the additional major as listed in the Undergraduate Catalog. Graduated Students Returning for a Second Degree: I f a student completes a BA degree at the University of Memphis with a major in English and returns to complete a major under another degree, such as Physics , the student would receive another diploma or degree because Physics majors earn a Bachelor of Science (BS) degree. These students can choose to walk in a Commencement ceremony because they do earn another diploma/deg ree. To earn this second degree, the student must complete all major requirements stated in the Undergraduate Catalog as well as the degree requirements based on the Undergraduate Catalog. Details can be found at this link: Students with a degree from another institution: I later completes a University of Memphis , he or she would earn a degree and receive a diploma from U of M . For example, a student with a BS degree from some other institution who then completes a major in Chemistry at UM will receive a Bachelor of S cience (BS) from the University of Memphis. These students could choose to participate in the Commencement ceremony upon completion of the degree. To earn this second degree, the student must complete all major requirements stated in the Undergraduate Ca talog as well as the degree requirements based on the Undergraduate Catalog. Details can be found at this link: