#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/research/
Research @ FCBE - FCBE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty &amp; Staff Research News Home FCBE Research Research @ FCBE Faculty in the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics are involved in a variety of research disciplines. Listed below are research domains and faculty names that represent our expertise. David Allen Retaining Your Most Valuable Employees Website Design and Attracting Job Applicants Mehdi Amini Supply chain design and configuration in the age of socially networked consumers Integrated closed-loop supply chain design for new and reconstructed products Status of corporate sustainability Emin Babakus Management of service quality in health care, financial services and the hospitality industry Measurement and management stress in frontline service jobs Managing customer and employee engagement Applications of conjoint analysis and perceptual mapping for new product development Using marketing research for competitive advantage Charles Bailey Effects of incentive pay Auditors' and accountants' professional judgment Ethical judgment and behavior Learning-curve forecasting Lloyd Brooks FCBE Providing Statewide Industry Certification Program Alan Bush Improving Salesperson Performance Improving the Effectiveness of Sales Force Technology Douglas Campbell Experimental evidence of the effects of an early intervention program on economics student performance The effect of municipal drug fund revenues on crime rates Interjurisdictional effects on crime rates of public safety spending On the distribution of personal bankruptcy filings: where (and why) Chapter 13 dominates Chapter 7 Cyril Chang Tracking and analyzing potentially avoidable hospitalizations Understanding non-urgent use of hospital emergency departments Tracing and analyzing the effects of the Affordable Care Act Conducting cost-benefit and cost-effectiveness analyses ROI analysis of health programs George Deitz Application of neurometric (.e.g., EEG) and biometric (e.g., facial expression recognition, GSR, eye tracking) measurement approaches in investigating consumer and managerial response to marketing stimuli Managing the growth of frontline employee service climate within retail, customer service, and sales settings Consumer response to "other-experienced" service failures and recoveries as depicted in online reviews Impact of vocal prosody and use of affective language in creating viral online content Frances Fabian Entrepreneurship Strategic Decision Making Corporate Strategy Andrew Hussey Economics of higher education and MBAs Earnings inequality and gender disparities in the labor market Pankaj Jain Financial Market Design Financial Regulation Market Microstructure High Frequency Trading Short Selling Institutional Investments and Trading Frictions Brian Janz Implementing human-centered design across organizations The role of innovation and design in entrepreneurism Understanding the consequences of adopting healthcare information systems High performance teams in software development Examining Technology Acceptance in Hospitals Benwari Kedia Examining the Impact of Offshore Outsourcing Examining Emerging Economies David Kemme Constructing Macroeconometric Models: The Case of Kazakhstan Empirical Measures to Guide Monetary Policy Makers Forecasting Macroeconomic Activity in Countries with Limited Data Bill Kettinger Assessing Organizational Information Management Competence Designing Digital Business Strategy Encouraging Open Innovation and Open Data Business Models Measuring IT Departments' Service Quality and IT Service Recovery Evaluating IT for Humanitarian Supply Chains Balaji Krishnan Consumer Behavior and Pricing Joonhyung Lee Globalization and its impact Understanding the role of multinationals in the global economy Satish Mehra Productivity Improvement Programs; How to? Just-in-Time and Lean Manufacturing; Key aspects Quality Orientation Adoption and TQM Implementation Processes Chuck Pierce Workplace Romance and Sexual Harassment in Organizations Managerial ethics &amp; ethical decision making in organizations Employee staffing decision making; test bias &amp; discrimination in employee selection Organizational Research Methods Robin Poston Decision Support Systems Web-Based Knowledge Management Applications Internet-Based Dissemination of Information System Testing Managementt Zabihollah Rezaee The Impact of Sarbanes Oxley on Accounting Firms and Financial Markets Judith Simon Recruitment of women and disadvantaged groups into Cyber Security careers Business program management issues and solutions in federated organization structures Managing business issues regarding insider threats to security, both intended and unintended The effect of personality type on likelihood to meet organizational security compliance requirements Trust in social media: The role of informed consent William Smith Economic Growth Asset-Pricing Behavior Under Uncertainty Jamin Speer Gender gaps in occupational choice College majors and career outcomes Effects of labor market conditions on workers' career outcomes Charlene Spiceland Accounting in the Nonprofit Arena Healthcare Accounting Research in Accounting Education David Spiceland Accounting Textbooks Accounting Education Research Marla Stafford Environmental marketing and green advertising Health communication; health messages in advertising Direct to consumer advertising and nutritional supplement advertising Social marketing Advertising message and media strategies Services advertising Jeff Thieme Innovation management Integration of sustainability in marketing strategy Peter Wright Corporate Risk Taking and Reward Structures Chen Zhang Open innovation and open data High-tech startups and entrepreneurship IT ecosystems and product compatibility strategy Strategic value of information and business analytics Mobile applications Open source software development Apply to our Undergraduate Programs &gt; Enroll at the university and engage yourself with our six different departments, student enrichment, and more. Apply to our Masters Programs &gt; Earn your degree with one of our six MBA tracks or with one of our four specialized Masters programs! Apply to our Doctoral Programs &gt; Interested in a Ph.D.? Start the journey towards your Ph.D. here! Contact Us &gt; Have questions? Call or email today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .