#http://www.memphis.edu/indium/faculty-skalli/
Omar Skalli - INDIUM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. INDIUM Research Students Faculty Facilities Equipment Funding Home INDIUM Omar Skalli Omar Skalli Director, Integrated Microscopy Center Phone 901.678.4233 Email oskalli@memphis.edu Fax Office 103A Life Science Building Office Hours By Email Appointment Department of Biological Sciences Profile Integrated Microscopy Center Research Interest Cell Nanomaterial Intereaction 1. Research Interests 1A. Contribution of cytoskeletal proteins to the motility and proliferation of astrocytoma cells. The cytoskeletal proteins on which we focus include the intermediate filament proteins synemin and vimentin as well as alpha-actinin, an actin filament bundling protein. We are also examining the mechanisms by which intermediate filament proteins, and synemin in particular, affect P13K/Akt signalling in astrocytoma cells. Figure to the right shows U373 MG astrocytoma cells stained by immunufluorescence for the intermediate filament protein vimentin (in red) and the nuclear intermediate filament lamin (in green). DNA is stained with DAPI and fluoresces in blue. 1B. Changes in cytoskeletal and plasma membrane dynamics during uptake of nanoparticles by cancer cells. Figure to the left shows HeLa cervical carcinoma cells incubated with carboxylated polystyrene beads (red). Cell membrane was stained with fluorescent wheat germ agglutinin and fluoresces in green, while is stained with DAPI and fluoresces in blue. 1C. Improving microscopy methods to image cytoskeletal proteins and nanoparticle uptake in astrocytoma cells growing in 3D culture models. 2. Current funding 09/01/2014 to 08/31/2017: NSF Instrument Development for Biological Research (IDBR) grant, PI: Dr. Preza; co-PI: Dr. Skalli. "Improving 3D resolution and reducing sensitivity to spherical aberration in live, thick sample cellular imaging using novel methods in optical sectioning microscopy". Amount awarded: $464,800. 3. Publications : 2014-2015 Pekny, T., Faiz, M., Wilhelmsson, U., Curtis, M.A., Matej, R., Skalli, O., Pekny, M. 2014. Synemin is expressed in reactive astrocytes and Rosenthal fibers in Alexander disease. APMIS 122:76-80. Skalli, O., Boykins, L., Coons, L. Electron microscopy. 2014. Chapter in: "Biofouling Methods". Dobretsov, S., Williams, D.N., and Thomason J. Edts. Wiley Blackwell publisher. Pages 26-43. Hamill, K.J., Colburn, Z.T., Hiroyasu, S., Ventrella, R.V., Hopkinson, S.B., Skalli, O., and Jones, J.C.R.. Alpha actinin-1 regulates cell-matrix adhesion organization in keratinocytes: consequences for skin cell motility. J. Invest. Dermatol., in press. Quick, Q., Paul, M., and Skalli, O. Roles and Potential Clinical Applications of Intermediate Filament Proteins in Brain Tumors. Sem. Ped. Neurol. In press Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .