#http://www.memphis.edu/law/alumni/student-class-gift.php
Student Class Gift - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Alumni Law Alumni Chapter Support Memphis Law How to Give to Memphis Law Areas for Giving Dean's Strategic Initiative Awards &amp; Scholarships Priority Program Student Class Gift Planned Giving Impact of Giving How to Give to Memphis Law ML-Memphis Law Magazine Career Services Alumni Home School of Law Alumni Student Class Gift STUDENT CLASS GIFT Many thanks to the class of 2013 who joined together and continued the strong tradition of philanthropy. As the first class that experienced Memphis Law with all three years in the downtown location, they have truly made their mark. Those who made a gift of $50 or more were recognized with their name on the wall in the student lounge. The 2014 committee members are: Jasen Durrence Jennifer Provost Caroline Sapp Kaleigh Thacker Megan Warden Now it's time for the Class of 2014 to make their mark too! Benefits Recognition. Each Class of 2014 member who makes a gift by April 4, 2014, will be recognized in the Commencement Program, a piece of memorabilia that is sure to be saved by all of us. We will also list each member on this web page, so be sure to check it out to see who has made a donation. Make your mark. More good news. Those members of the Class of 2014 who make a 2 year pledge of at least $50 will have the opportunity to have his or her name inscribed on the wall in the Student Lounge. We are continuing the tradition. Our hope is that each 3L class will follow our lead and continue to award a class scholarship for an incoming student and be inspired to have their name on the wall when they graduate. Ways to Give 1. Make a gift online . It's 3 clicks - use it! 2. Write a check payable to the University of Memphis Foundation or provide credit card information on THIS FORM Print out the form and bring directly to Holly Hazlett, Director of Development, Room 270, Administration Wing. Class of 2013 Donors Sarah Atkinson Salwa A. Bahhur Rebecca Blair Beaty Emily L. Blow Jessee E. Bundy Natalie M. Bursi Nathan D. Cate Falen M. Chandler Chelsea N. Conn Patricia A. Crowell Jenna C. Dillier Becky S. Dykes Libba Fyke Jamie K. Galiata Caroline Giovannetti Angela Harris Stephen C. Harris Jake A. Kasser Jane Marie Lewis Natalie F. Malone Christopher Martin Randal E. Martin Jason O. Perryman Shalonda G. Pickford Robert Todd Pinckley Bheerendra R. Prasad Laura Elizabeth Pratt Ryan D. Rich Jonathan J. Ring Elizabeth J. Rogers Zoe K. Sams Gavin A. Smith Jeffrey S. Smith Emily Stotts Roger D. Sumpter, II Henry Talbot William C. Terrell, II Erin Scott Wadlington Kenneth M. Walker, II Brigid C. Welsh Thomas C. Williams Alumni Law Alumni Chapter Support Memphis Law How to Give to Memphis Law Areas for Giving Dean's Strategic Initiative Awards &amp; Scholarships Priority Program Student Class Gift Planned Giving Impact of Giving How to Give to Memphis Law ML-Memphis Law Magazine Career Services Alumni Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .