#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/herff/tech.php
TECH - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions TECH (TECH) TECHNOLOGY Department of Engineering Technology Scott Southall, M.S.E.T., Chair Room 203, Engineering Technology Building In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: TECH 4990-98. Special Topics. (1-3). Topics are varied and in online class listings. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. TECH 1010 - Computer Applications in Tech (3) Introduction to computer applications using PC's networked; file management; spreadsheets; presentation graphics; Internet application in technology. TECH 1211 - Computer Programming (3) (CETH). Computer usage in engineering technology; emphasis on use of computer programming in solving technical problems. Two hours lecture; 3 hours lab per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1010. TECH 1411 - Introduction to Technology (1) Emphasis on engineering technology programs relative to content and opportunities upon graduation; professionalism and ethics technical careers; communication in technical careers; activities related to various technological disciplines; approaches to basic research techniques and problem solving. TECH 1521 - Graphics/Descriptive Geometry (3) Orthographic projections, sections, pictorials; drafting with instruments, sketching, and introduction to computer aided drafting. Auxiliary views and revolutions, profiles, vector graphics and developments. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. TECH 1711 - Manufacturing Process I (3) (METH). Metal manufacturing processes, including traditional machining, computer numerical control, and thermal metal cutting/joining; measurement, layout, and inspection techniques as applied to integrated manufacturing systems; coverage of threads, fasteners, and geometric dimensioning and tolerancing. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. TECH 1811 - Electronic Circuit Technology (3) (EETH). Introduction to fundamental electronic theory and devices, circuit and network theorems. Laboratory emphasis on basic electrical measurements and proper use of instruments. Three lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1730, TECH 1010. TECH 2251 - Adv Programming Technology (3) (CETH). Principles of computer programming applicable to engineering technology; algorithmic problem solving, coding in a structured, object oriented, high level language, subprograms and parameters, control structures, I/O, complex arithmetic, and double precision operations emphasized. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1211. TECH 2261 - Data Structures (3) (CETH). Application of high speed digital computer to problems associated with storage and retrieval of numeric and non-numeric data in engineering systems; representation and organization for storing of data, searching and sorting techniques, decision tables, and file maintenance techniques. Database applications. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1211. TECH 2812 - Basic Industrial Cntrol Device (3) (EETH). Theory and applications of devices commonly used in modern industrial control; including transistors, operational amplifiers, thyristors, and solid-state logic. Applications and characteristics of motors and control system I/O devices. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1811. TECH 2813 - Industrial Control Systems (3) (EETH). Theory and operation of logic control systems: including relay ladder logic, solid-state logic, and programmable logic controllers. Emphasis on practical industrial applications. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2812. TECH 2821 - Solid State Technology (3) (EETH 2821). Theory of solid-state devices with application in power supplies, amplifiers, and other basic electronic circuits. Solid-state diodes and bipolar junction transistors emphasized. Three lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1811. TECH 2822 - Circuit Analysis (4) (EETH 2820). Circuit analysis methods in modern electronics engineering technology; laboratory confirmation of mathematical solutions to problems involving direct and alternating currents. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1811. TECH 2831 - Advanced Solid State Tech (3) (EETH). Theory of field effect transistors and operational amplifiers. Emphasis on practical applications, including amplifiers, filters, and oscillators. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2822, 2821, MATH 1910. TECH 3044 - Analysis for Engineering Tech (4) Application of mathematical, scientific, and engineering principles to solution of technology problems, using a variety of examples from various major areas in Technology; analyze and provide acceptable solutions to ascending order of well designed problems using language and techniques or related technological disciplines and selected areas of mathematics, such as algebra, trigonometry, calculus, applied industrial statistics, and differential equations. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1910, PHYS 2010, and TECH 2822. TECH 3232 - Digital Technology (4) (CETH). Numbering systems and codes, logic gates, Boolean algebra, Combinational logic, TTL circuits, and memory devices. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1811. TECH 3233 - Microprocessor Technology (4) (CETH). Computer history and architecture; microprocessor and microcomputer operation; fetching and executing instructions; microprocessor registers; memory addressing modes; assembly-language instructions; assembler operation. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1211 and 3232, TECH 2821. TECH 3241 - Internet Technology (3) (Was TECH 4241, CETH 3241, CETH 4241). Internet services and protocols; covering the top three layers of the OSI model; session presentation, and application layers. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2251. TECH 3251 - Assembly Language Program (4) (CETH). (TECH 4251). Microcomputer programming using assembly language instructions, DOS function calls, and BIOS functions. Microprocessor architecture. Using an assembler to create executable files from assembly language programs. Text and graphic displays using assembly language programs. Application programs for input-output devices. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3233. TECH 3281 - Computer Aided Circuit Design (4) (CETH). Utilization of commercially available software for electronic circuit documentation, analysis and design; schematic capture, printed circuit board design, and circuit simulation. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2831, TECH 3232. TECH 3386 - Occupational Safety (3) (METH). Hazards and safety procedures for general industry and construction. TECH 3401 - Strength of Materials (3) (METH). Force systems and their solution; that branch of mechanics dealing with forces and effects of forces including stress strain and deformation of bodies at rest; analysis of frames and mechanisms. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1910, PHYS 2010/2011. COREQUISITE: TECH 3044. TECH 3408 - Industrial Materials (3) (METH). Material properties and the methods/standards used in testing these properties for metals, ceramics, polymers, and composites; emphasis on their mechanical properties; reinforced by testing in the laboratory, library and internet research, spreadsheet applications, written reports, and oral presentations. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3401, 3462. COREQUISITE: TECH 3421. TECH 3421 - Manufacturing Process II (4) (METH). Processes and techniques used to fabricate industrial materials into useful products; techniques covered include casting and molding, forming, separating, conditioning, assembling, finishing; CNC programming concepts and process design and control. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1711. TECH 3440 - Project Plan/Cost Evaluation (3) (METH). Concept of project management and engineering economy; impact of economics in evaluation of alternatives and decision making; spreadsheet development of economic concepts; interest rate compounding effects; present and future valuation; cash flow analysis; application of project management methods and techniques including planning, organizing, leading and controlling of projects. Team projects include case discussions, written reports and oral presentations, and use of project management software. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1910, COMM 2381, ENGL 3603. TECH 3462 - Industrial Statistics (3) (METH). Procedures for collecting, describing, presenting and statistically analyzing industrial data; basic probability theory; hypothesis testing and basic concepts of analysis of variance; introduction to Taguchi methods; spreadsheet software used for statistical analysis. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1710 or higher, and TECH 1010. TECH 3573 - Dynamics/Design/Automation (3) (METH). Analysis of rectilinear and curvilinear motion; kinematic analysis of mechanisms; design of mechanical systems; pulleys, gears, belts, motors. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3044 and 3401, PHYS 2010/2011. TECH 3691 - Construction Estimating (3) Fundamentals of commercial and light frame estimating; emphasis given to conducting a quantity survey, including unit and overhead costs. TECH 3811 - Electronic Communication (3) (EETH). Principles of analog communications; harmonics; noise, active filters, signal generation; A.M., single side band transmission and reception and F.M. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2831 and 3044. TECH 3812 - Adv Electronic Comm Technology (3) (EETH). Principles of digital electronic communications; data transmission and modulation/demodulation techniques such as ASK, FSK, Qpsk; quantization error; channel bandwidth; pulse code modulation; satellite communication system principles; optical communication principles. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3811, TECH 3232 and PHYS 2020. TECH 3821 - Industrial Electronics (3) (EETH). Electronic circuits and systems in industry; principles of signal conditioning, DC and AC motors and drives, sensors; process control and PLcs; theory and application of devices such as unijunction transistors, silicon controlled rectifiers, diacs, triacs. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2831 and 3044. TECH 3822 - Programmable Logic Control (4) (EETH). Theory and operation of programmable logic controllers; emphasis on practical industrial applications and programming techniques. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3232 and 3821. TECH 3841 - Electrical Power/Motor Control (3) (EETH). Generation and utilization of AC and DC electrical power; applications and operating characteristics of motors, generators and transformers with emphasis on three-phase power systems. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3821. TECH 3940 - Analysis/Public Fire Protect (3) Systems analysis and its use and limitations in fire protection and other problem areas; illustrated with case studies and models using the systems approach to fire suppression and prevention. PREREQUISITE: admission restricted to students seeking B.P.S. degree in Fire Administration or Fire Prevention Technology. TECH 3942 - Fire Related Human Factors (3) Dynamics of human behavior in fire incidents related to building design, codes and ordinances, and other fire prevention practices. PREREQUISITE: admission restricted to students seeking B.P.S. degree in Fire Administration or Fire Prevention Technology. TECH 3944 - Fire Protect Struc/Sys Design (3) Design principles involved in protection of structure from fire involvement empirical tests and prediction procedures; control detection, and suppression system design practices; fundamentals of hydraulic design of sprinkler and water spray systems with recent innovations. PREREQUISITE: admission restricted to students seeking B.P.S. degree in Fire Administration or Fire Prevention Technology. TECH 3945 - Fire Investigation/Analysis (3) Procedures and techniques for collection, comparison, and analysis of physical evidence related to fire origin; principles of evidence of ignition phenomenon and propagation variables; legislative, economic, psychological, and sociological variables of incendiary fire, role of insurance and government programs. PREREQUISITE: students of B.P.S. degree in Fire Administration or Fire Prevention Technology program. TECH 3946 - Fire Dynamics (3) Fire propagation phenomenon in both fuel and air regulated phases; variables in pre- and post-flash over fire development; geometric, material, gaseous, fluid flow, and thermodynamic parameters; compartment and building fire models. PREREQUISITE: student of B.P.S. degree in Fire Administration or Fire Prevention Technology program. TECH 3947 - Application of Fire Research (3) Fire research and its application; transfer and implications of available research results for fire prevention and protection programs; national and international studies and research developments. PREREQUISITE: student of B.P.S. degree in Fire Administration or Fire Prevention Technology program. TECH 3948 - Managerial Issues/Hazard Mtrl (3) Examination of federal regulatory issues, hazard identification and vulnerability analysis, multi-agency contingency planning, response personnel, multi-agency response resources and systems; discussion of agency policies, public education and emergency information systems, health and safety issues, command post dynamics, strategic and tactical considerations, recovery and termination procedures. PREREQUISITE: enrollment in B.P.S. degree in Fire Administration or Fire Prevention Technology program. TECH 4234 - Microproc Interface Technology (4) Analysis and design of microprocessor based systems utilizing serial and parallel input/output as well as analog to digital and digital to analog converters. Programs are developed to verify operation of the interfacing hardware. Team projects and written reports. Three lectures, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2831, 3233 and 3440. TECH 4242 - Client Application Technology (3) (CETH). Hypertext Markup Language (HTML), XML, and script languages. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3241, or permission of instructor. TECH 4262 - Modern Programming (3) (CETH). Application of modern programming languages to problems from selected area of engineering technology; data collection, modeling techniques, constraints, program development and validation. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2251 or equivalent. TECH 4263 - Server Application Technology (4) (CETH). Java exception handling, multithreading, files and streams; JDBC, Servlets, JSP, and JavaBeans server side software. Team projects include written reports. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3440, 4262, or permission of instructor. TECH 4272 - Operating Systems (4) Operating system structure, memory management (physical, virtual memory), process management (processes, threads, scheduling, synchronization, deadlocks), device management (driver, buffers, queues), file management (implementation, abstraction), installation and configuration of services within UNIX/LINUX operating system, and performance. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3232 or equivalent. TECH 4281 - Computer Network Technology (4) (CETH). Local area networks; covering the bottom four layers of the OSI mode; physical, datalink, network and transportation and application. Extensive laboratory coverage of the installation, configuration and administration of routers, switches and other networking devices. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2822, 3232 and 3241 or equivalent. TECH 4381 - Principles of Supervision (3) (METH). Practical approach to supervisory management including functions of planning, organization, staffing, employee motivation; coverage of contemporary issues including legal aspect of supervision as well as other regulatory concerns, such as occupational safety, health and labor relations. TECH 4401 - Science/Technology/Society (2) Relationship between science, technology and society is investigated through research, reading, discussions, and reports; conditions will be studied that have promoted development through science and technology; evaluation of social, global, political, environmental, cultural and economic effects of those technologies; ethics, impact, and control issues within society. Written essays and team debates. Two lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 4381 TECH 4460 - Work Design/Improvement (3) (METH). Analytical techniques and concepts for work methods improvement, lean operation for production and distribution; performance measurement and evaluation; continuous improvement; fundamentals of human factors and ergonomics; work measurement using time study, predetermined time study systems, work sampling and development of standard data. TECH 4462 - Quality Improvement (3) (METH). Statistical methods for quality analysis and improvement; control charts for variables and attributes, industrial sampling; defect prevention using the Poka-Yoke System; reliability; acceptance sampling; Quality standards, continuous improvement; use of computer software for data analysis and presentation. Two hours lecture; 3 hours lab per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3044. TECH 4463 - Quality Systems (3) Investigation and application of quality subjects and techniques used to ensure proper quality outcomes; quality standards (ISO, etc.), TLS; process validation including CAPA, GD&T, CMM, metrology and gage R&R. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 4462. TECH 4464 - Production Control Systems (3) (METH). Functions of planning and controlling production and distribution operations; concepts of JIT, MRP, MRPII, ERP, and Japanese manufacturing techniques; analytical techniques and concepts for line balancing, production and process control, demand management and project management. COREQUISITE: TECH 4460, or permission of instructor. TECH 4466 - Facility Design (3) (METH). Integrated approach to design and layout for production and distribution facilities with respect to workstation design, material handling, project and resource planning, production control; use of Computer Aided Design, scheduling and analytical software. Team projects, written reports and oral presentations. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3440, 4460 and 4464, or permission of instructor. TECH 4472 - Computer Aided Design (3) (METH). Overview of CAD technology, hardware and software options; parametric solid modeling principles; applications to produce computer generated models, assemblies, photo-realistic renderings and working drawings. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1521, 1711, 3401. TECH 4474 - Automation and Robotics (3) (METH). Concepts of automation applied to production, distribution, and industrial robotics. Team project including written report. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1811, 3440 and PHYS 2010. TECH 4476 - Computer Aided Manufacturing (3) (METH). Computer numerical control programming by manual data input and distributed numerical control by computer assistance; system assessment of CNC machines; components, controls, and tooling for integrated manufacturing environment. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1730, TECH 1711, 3421, and 4472 . TECH 4510 - Construction Planning/Schedule (3) Principles of planning, scheduling, organizing, and controlling construction projects; studies in critical path method (CPM) and PERT, with resource leveling and financial scheduling; computer applications in CPM and PERT emphasized. TECH 4571 - Tool Design (3) (METH). Design of tooling and work holding systems for the integrated manufacturing environment; geometric dimensioning and tolerancing, fast change-over techniques, hydraulic and pneumatic circuits, achieving world class quality through design. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3401, 3421, 4472. TECH 4821 - Microwave Technology (4) (EETH). Transition line principles for coax, waveguide and fiber; use of Smith Charts for impedance matching; principles of microwave generation and propagation; measurements such as impedance, antenna gain and VSWR; antenna types, characteristics; radiation patterns. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3811, PHYS 2020. TECH 4823 - Adv Programmable Logic Control (3) (EETH). Advanced applications of programmable logic controllers, including analog I/O techniques and computer interfacing. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3440, 3822, or permission of instructor. TECH 4943 - Senior Project Plan Seminar (1) Methodology related to solving problems in engineering technology culminating in an integrative experience through individual and/or team projects and technical proposal with technical presentation. One lecture hour per week. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 3603, TECH 3440, students must be within two semesters of graduation, and permission of instructor. TECH 4944 - Senior Thesis (3) (CETH, EETH, METH). Study and research in specific area culminating in an integrating experience through individual and/or group projects and technical reports. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3440 and either ENGL 3601 or 3603, and senior with two semesters of graduation. Permission of department required. TECH 4945 - Senior Project (2) Individual and/or team effort in study and implementation of integrative technical project culminating in technical report and technical presentation. Permits issued to students who have taken the senior exit exam and applied for graduation within the previous 12 months. Two lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 4943, student must be within two semesters of graduation, and permission of instructor. TECH 4995 - Automatic Identification Apps (3) Methods and systems used to automatically identify objects; keyless data entry; bar coding, radio frequency identification; voice data entry. TECH 4999 - Engineering Tech Projects (1-3) Independent investigation of engineering technology problems in consultation with instructor. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: senior standing. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .