#http://www.memphis.edu/drs/about/faqs.php
FAQs - Disability Resources for Students - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Disability Resources for Students About Access Accommodations Technology Policies Career Programs Faculty About DRS Office DRS Staff FAQs Important Terms for DRS Home Disability Resources for Students About FAQs FAQs I'm not sure what college I want to attend. What services will DRS at the University of Memphis provide? In addition to the disability-related accommodations a student needs, DRS can provide students with additional services such as math tutoring, one-on-one assistance with paper writing and study skills, as well as executive functioning and time management skills through Weekly Academic Coaching Meetings with a Coordinator or Graduate Assistant. What are the admissions requirements for SWDs? There are no separate admissions criteria for people with disabilities. The admissions criteria of the University of Memphis must be met by each person who applies. Are there any scholarships for students with disabilities? There are two scholarships for students with disabilities at the University of Memphis: the Exchange Club Shackelford Scholarship and the William P. Roberts Scholarship. Both are primarily for students who are deaf or hard of hearing. More information may be found on the website: In addition, some students may qualify for tuition assistance through Vocational Rehabilitation. For more information on Tennessee Vocational Rehabilitation, please visit their website: Students from others states should contact a vocational rehabilitation office in their state. Does the University have accessible rooms in the residence halls? Physically accessible rooms are available. Requests are made through Residence Life, but students requesting accessible rooms must be registered with Disability Resources for Students. Additional information may be obtained through their website: I don't have a physical or visible disability. Can I still register with SDS? DRS assists students with a variety of disabilities. Some students have hearing, visual and mobility impairments, while other students have psychological, cognitive, or emotional disorders. The largest population the office assists is students with ADHD and/or learning disabilities. What is the cost for services at DRS? The University of Memphis is fortunate to offer all services, including tutoring and coaching services, to students registered with DRS at no additional cost. Do you work with a lot of students with ADHD? Do you work with a lot of students with chronic illness? Do you work with a lot of students with psychiatric disorders? During the 2013-2014 academic year, there were 485 students registered in the LD/ADHD/ASD Program. About 80% of those students were diagnosed with ADHD. There were 213 students registered with DRS who identified as having psychiatric disorders and 105 students identified as having chronic illnesses. What kinds of accommodations are available? Accommodations are decided on a case-by-case and course-by-course basis. One student's needs may not be the same as another student; similarly, what is reasonable and appropriate in one course, may not be in another. With specific documentation and a meeting with a staff member, DRS will be able to determine what is reasonable or appropriate. My best friend and I both have the same diagnosis, but he gets note takers, and I don't. Why can't I have them, too? Accommodations are as varied as the students registered with DRS, so what is needed to ensure equal access of one student has may not be the same as another. Each student has accommodations based on his or her own specific needs, the nature of the course that is being taken, and the documentation he or she has on file with the office. To find out more, check with the Coordinator and see what accommodations might be appropriate. Can I use my laptop for note taking? Can I take my test on a computer? Students are encouraged to meet with their Coordinator to determine if the use of laptops or computers are reasonable or appropriate accommodations based on their documentation and the essential requirements of the class. I just got diagnosed with ADHD and I've never used accommodations, not even in high school. Can I still get accommodations in college? It is possible that accommodations are appropriate, even without a history of accommodation usage. Speak with the LD/ADHD/ASD Coordinator about what information will be needed to register with DRS. I haven't been successful in learning or completing a foreign language. I have an LD, so I can get out of that, right? While not all majors at the University of Memphis require a foreign language, some do. If the foreign language requirement is essential for the degree, the student will have to take the foreign language. If the student wants to pursue a foreign language substitution, he or she should meet with the appropriate Coordinator to discuss the process of requesting a foreign language substitution. After the meeting, DRS may recommend a foreign language substitution to the Dean of the College or School in which the student is enrolled. The Dean then makes the final decision and will provide a list of classes that should be taken in lieu of a foreign language. Can you make my math requirement go away? The University of Memphis considers math to be an essential general education requirement for all degree programs. I need extra time on the (GRE, TEAS, PRAXIS, LSAT, MCAT, etc). Is that possible? Applications for standardized tests are typically done online; however, students who need testing accommodations may need to submit a paper application. Be advised that some processes for approving accommodations can take as long as TWO MONTHS. It is important that the student makes sure his or her information is up-to-date before submitting the application. For the applications needing verification from DRS, the student will need to set an appointment with the appropriate Coordinator to discuss the accommodations needed and additional information DRS may need to complete for the application. If a letter is required, DRS will write it and give it to the student to be included with the application. I don't really need accommodations. I really just need someone to help me stay on track and accountable. Is that okay? Many students say they get the best help from DRS through Weekly Academic Coaching Meetings. Students are invited to schedule an appointment any time to discuss important issues, or they can set Weekly Academic Coaching Meetings with their Coordinator or a Graduate Assistant. I don't want anybody to know I'm registered with DRS. Is that okay? DRS places great emphasis on maintaining the confidentiality of students; however, there may be some instances in which the student would want others to know. For example, if the student wants to use accommodations on tests, he or she will need to speak with the professor and present him or her with a memo from DRS. These memos let the professor know that the student is registered with DRS and outline any approved accommodations. These memos are for information purposes only and do not include a student's diagnoses, unless the student requests that information to be included. DRS will make every effort to maintain the confidentiality of all students registered with the office. Only those faculty or staff with a need to know will be informed of a student's registration with DRS. Will my transcript/diploma indicate that I was registered with DRS or used accommodations? There will be no identifiers on transcripts or diplomas that a student was registered with DRS, used accommodations, or utilized services through DRS. I'm afraid my professors will grade me harder if I use my extended time. Professors may not grade any student on a scale different from other students. Accommodations are not "extra help", they are like a step-ladder one might use to change a light bulb. They are tools a student uses in an academic environment. Accommodations are not designed to give a student an edge over other students. In fact, the accommodations should make the student's experience an equal one to that of his or her peers. I have a reading disorder. What should I major in? I have a math disorder and want to major in engineering. Can I do that? A student with a disability should approach career choices based on personal interests and values, skill levels, likes and dislikes. No person should be advised out of a major or career path they have chosen simply because of a disability. DRS will, however, talk with students frankly about the field in which they want to work, the practicalities of majoring in that field, the coursework involved and the nuances of working in that field. We will work with each student on appropriate accommodations and make sure they are structuring enough study time, and working with tutors, when appropriate. I need a handicapped parking placard. Where do I go? "Designated accessible parking areas are available to persons with physical disabilities who have a registered University of Memphis parking permit and a valid disabled parking permit issued to the student or employee by a State Department of Safety. No additional fee will be assessed to STUDENTS for physically disabled parking permits. The priority parking permit fee will be assessed to FACULTY/STAFF for physically disabled parking permits. This permit authorizes the permit holder to park in accessible parking spaces in priority parking lots and in other non-reserved, general permit parking spaces on campus." (from the University of Memphis Parking Services website) Do you provide on-campus transportation between classes for SWD? DRS does not transport students between classes, but students may utilize The Blue Line campus shuttle around campus, across the Southern Avenue train tracks to the Campus Recreation Intramural Services Center (CRIS), and to and from the Park Avenue campus. The Blue Line is accessible for students who use wheelchairs or have other mobility issues. Will DRS find and hire a personal attendant for me? If the personal attendant is needed to perform specific tasks in the classroom as a disability-related accommodation, DRS will provide a classroom attendant. Typically, the student should provide for his or her own attendant to assist with personal, daily activities. Requests for and questions about personal attendants should be discussed with the student's Coordinator. What is "Assistive Technology"? Assistive Technology (or AT) is any tool used to help people become more self-sufficient. Two examples of assistive technology are text-to-speech and speech-to-text software. To create text-to-speech, DRS can scan documents and materials into a computer and the computer will read the text to the student. With speech-to-text software, students talk into a microphone and the information is typed into a computer document. AT reduces the need for another person to assist a student with whatever task they have, making the student more independent. I am pregnant. What can DRS do to help me? A student who is pregnant is not considered to be a person with a disability; however, a student who is experiencing health complications due to pregnancy may be eligible for disability-related accommodations. These actions are determined on a case-by-case basis. Students who are pregnant are covered under Title IX and are served by the Office of Institutional Equity. English is a second language for me, and I do not fully understand my instructors. Will you provide me with note takers or extended time on exams? Students who are English language learners (aka ELL or ESL), are not typically eligible for services or accommodations through DRS, unless they are also a person with a disability. About DRS Office DRS Staff FAQs Important Terms for DRS Contact DRS DRS Announcements Student and Faculty Awards Thanks to Our Volunteer Note-takers! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .