#http://libguides.memphis.edu/activedutytoveteran
For Veterans - From Active Duty to Veteran: Honoring Military Service in America - LibGuides at University of Memphis Libraries University Libraries LibGuides From Active Duty to Veteran: Honoring Military Service in America For Veterans From Active Duty to Veteran: Honoring Military Service in America: For Veterans Fall 2014 exhibit highlighting materials from the Preservation and Special Collections Department and Government Publications Department. For Veterans Revolutionary War Civil War Spanish American War World War I World War II Korean War Vietnam War Gulf Wars Government Publications GI Bill Books in the Library What It Is Like to Go to War by Karl Marlantes ISBN: 9780802119926 Publication Date: 2011-08-30 Life after the Military by Janelle Hill; Cheryl Lawhorne; Don Philpott ISBN: 9781605907406 Publication Date: 2011-06-16 Serving America's Veterans by Max A. Bergmann; Sean E. Duggan; Peter M. Juul; Lawrence J. Korb ISBN: 9780313355264 Publication Date: 2009-08-01 Library of Congress' Veterans History Project Resources for Tennessee Veterans Veterans Resource Center @ U of M Tennessee Department of Veteran Affairs U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Pension and Benefits Search U of M Libraries From Special Collections The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States The Armed Forces of the United States ‹ › National Veterans Crisis Line The Veterans Crisis Line is a confidential toll-free hotline, online chat, or text that Veterans or their loved ones can use 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. For chat services click here . For text message send a text to 838255 to recieve confidential support. Past Library Veteran's events Government Publications The University Libraries is proud to serve as one of Tennessee&#39;s Federal Depository Libraries. Click the above link to be redirected to the Government Publication&#39;s Department. Wounded warrior regiment handbook Discover Other Exhibit Libguides Next: Revolutionary War &gt;&gt; Last Updated: Oct 14, 2015 10:33 AM URL: Print Page Login to LibApps . Report a problem . Subjects: Government Publications , Special Collections Tags: Airman , Army , Marine , Seaman , Servicemen , Soldier , Veteran