#http://www.memphis.edu/libraries/cataloging/staff.php
Staff - Libraries - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Libraries About Services Resources Instruction Special Collections Technology Cataloging Staff Resources By Format Resources By Activity Abbreviations &amp; Acronyms Tennessee NACO Funnel Classification Aids Catalogs for Cataloging Home Libraries Cataloging Staff Elizabeth McDonald, Head of Cataloging Department/Catalog Librarian Associate Professor emcdnld1@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-8237 Office: McWherter Library: RM 303J Responsibilities: Provides leadership in the development of cataloging and classification policies and procedures; and makes available training opportunities. Creates original or adapts complex cataloging records for monographic, serial, and microform formats; corrects and upgrades cataloging and item records; assigns LC Classification numbers; serving as an LC Rules Interpretation specialist; serves as the Library Liaison for the Civil and Electrical Engineering Departments in the Libraries' Collection Development program . Research Interests: Serials cataloging issues. John Barnett, Library Assistant III jbarnett@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-1536 Office: McWherter Library: RM 303 Responsibilities: Catalogs newly received monographic material from cataloging records created by the Library of Congress; imports authority records; corrects and updates cataloging and item records; transfers material between collections. Dr. Linde M. Brocato, Catalog Librarian Associate Professor lmbrcato@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-4288 Office: McWherter Library: RM 303J Responsibilities: Provides leadership in the development of cataloging and classification policies and procedures; and makes available training opportunities. Creates original or adapts complex cataloging records for monographic, serial, and microform formats; corrects and upgrades cataloging and item records; assigns LC Classification numbers; serving as an LC Rules Interpretation specialist; serves as the Library Liaison for the Civil and Electrical Engineering Departments in the Libraries' Collection Development program . Research Interests: Late medieval Spanish literature and culture; comparative literature; the relationship of visual and verbal texts; bibliography and codicology; book history; historical and local constructions of gender and sexuality; knowledge organization and dissemination; cataloging graphic novels and rare materials. Connie Carlin, Library Clerk ccarlin@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-2318 Office: McWherter Library: RM 303 Responsibilities: Material processing, labeling, ownership identification, distributing material to appropriate locations within the University Libraries; and correcting item records. Dr. Mark H. Danley, Catalog Librarian Associate Professor mdanley@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-8236 Office: McWherter Library: RM 303I Responsibilities: Creates original and complex adaptive cataloging for monographs and other materials. Assigns LC subject headings and classification numbers. Provides leadership in authority work. Performs bibliographic file maintenance as needed. Research Interests: History of books and reading, especially in eighteenth-century Britain; cataloging and access issues in special collections materials; military history; British history. Gloria Fitzgerald, Library Assistant II gftzgrld@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-1538 Office: McWherter Library: RM 303 Responsibilities: Catalogs newly received added volumes of serial material from records created by the Library of Congress and OCLC member libraries; imports authority records; corrects and updates cataloging and item records; transfers material between collections; and withdraws superceded material. Lucille Freeman, Library Assistant II lfreeman@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-1569 Office: McWherter Library: RM 303 Responsibilities: Catalogs newly received monographic material based on cataloging records created by the Library of Congress and OCLC member libraries; imports authority records; corrects and updates cataloging and item records; transfers material between collections; and supervises student assistants. Terry D. Martin, Library Assistant I tdmartin@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-8245 Office: McWherter Library: RM 303 Responsibilities: Catalogs newly received monographic material from cataloging records created by the Library of Congress; imports authority records; corrects and updates cataloging and item records; transfers material between collections; and serves as a Departmental Service Provider for computer hardware and software issues. Serves on the WebTeam useing computer language to maintain and update the webpages of the Cataloging Dept. Making sure all links are appropriately connected to their designated websites. Lee Louise Slack, Library Assistant III lslack@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-2181 Office: McWherter Library: RM 303 Responsibilities: Catalogs newly received music books, sheet music, compact discs, audiocassettes, and phonodiscs from cataloging records created by the Library of Congress and OCLC member libraries; corrects and updates cataloging and item records; imports and upgrades authority records; and transfers material between collections Cathy Swearengen, Library Assistant III cswearen@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-1567 Office: McWherter Library: RM 303 Responsibilities: Catalogs monographic and serial material using complex electronic records from the OCLC database; corrects and updates complex cataloging and item records; prepares procedures for various cataloging tasks; plans use of cataloging software programs; trains new departmental employees; and serves as a Departmental Service Provider for computer hardware and software issues. Joann Waddell, Library Assistant III jwaddell@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-2106 Office: McWherter Library: RM 303 Responsibilities: Catalogs Pre-1976 government publications. Corrects and updates cataloging and item records; transfers material between collections; and withdraws superceded material. Send questions/comments/suggestions to Elizabeth McDonald Cataloging Staff Resources By Format Resources By Activity Abbreviations &amp; Acronyms Tennessee NACO Funnel Classification Aids Catalogs for Cataloging My Library Account Review your library account for due dates and more. Interlibrary Loan Request books, articles, and other research materials from other libraries. Reserve space Group study and presentation spaces available in the library. Ask-a-Librarian Got a question? Got a problem? Ask Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .