#http://www.memphis.edu/indium/faculty-wang/
Yongmei Wang - INDIUM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. INDIUM Research Students Faculty Facilities Equipment Funding Home INDIUM Yongmei Wang Yongmei Wang Dunavant Professor Phone 901.678.2629 Email ywang@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.3447 Office 419 Smith Chemistry, Memphis, TN 38152 Office Hours Call for Appointment Department of Chemistry Profile CV Research Interest Theoretical and computational approaches to investigate underlying molecular processes in macromolecular systems and in nanomedicine. Research Overview Our group is interested in developing and applying theoretical and computational approaches to investigate underlying molecular processes in macromolecular systems and in nanomedicine. Over the years, we became involved in several different projects. Below gives a short summary of each project on how we began and what we have achieved and what we are currently focusing on. Plasmonic Properties of Metallic Colloidal Particles Metallic colloidal nanoparticles such as gold or silver have very interesting plasmonic properties and have many interesting applications such as sensing or imaging. We became involved in this area of study mostly because of Dr. Xiaohua Huang who joined us here as a faculty member at Memphis. Dr. Huang worked with Prof. Mostafa El-Sayed during her Ph.D. training at Georgia Tech and she developed bioconjugated gold nanorods to kill cancer cells with photothermal therapy. Research activities in her group focuse on the use of these novel metallic nanoparticles in biomedical applications, and we are intriqued in understanding the plasmonic properties of these metallic nanoparticles. Together, we hope to establish a better structure-property relationship of these metallic colloidal nanoparticles, particuarly those anistropic core-shell structured nanoparticles. Polymer Based Gene delivery Polymer are often used as delivery vehicles in gene and drug delivery systems since polymer chemists are capable of synthesizing and tailoring their srucutres in many different ways. When gene therapy became possible since early 1990's, polymer was sought after as a substitute of viral-based delivery vector since viral based delivery vector poses unknown immune responses. The strucutral aspect of how cationic polymers complex with nucleic acids and how these polymer cations assist in the successful gene delivery is what we aim to get a fuller understanding. We have been working in this area since 2008. Learn more about what we have achieved so far in this project by following the link. Current funding: A) NSF Tennessee solar conversion and storage using outreach, research and education (TN-SCORE), NSF Epscor award (1004083), UT is the leading Institute, amount award to UM is $1.2 million for a total of five years (UM team members: Wang, Fujiwara, Zhao, Laradji, Mishra). 8/31/2010-7/31/2015, role: senior investigator. 1.0 person-months per year B) Multiscale molecular modeling of polymer based gene delivery vector. NIGMS/NIH, $314,493, 06/01/2013-05/31/2016, role: PI, 1.2 person-months per year C) Capture and Detection of Circulating Tumor Cells in Whole Blood Using Hybrid Nanoparticles and Microfluidic Devices, FedEx Institute of Technology Innovation Fund, role: co-PI (Huang is the PI), $122,919; 02/01/2014-6/30/2015; 0.5 person-months per year Publication 2014-2015 1. Interplay of Coil-Globule Transition and Surface Adsorption of a Lattice HP Protein Model, Meng-bo Luo, Jesse D. Ziebarth, Yongmei Wang, J. Phys. Chem. B, 118, 14913-14921 (2014) (doi:10.1021/jp506126d) 2. Impact of Core Dielectric Properties on the Localized Surface Plasmonic Spectra of Gold-Coated Magnetic Core-Shell Nanoparticles. Chaffin EA, Bhana S, O'Connor RT, Huang X, Wang Y. J Phys Chem B. 118, 14076-14084 (2014). doi:10.1021/jp505202k. 3. Comparison of monovalent and divalent ion distributions around a DNA duplex with molecular dynamics simulation and a Poisson-Botlzmann approach, Timothy J. Robbins, Jesse D. Ziebarth, Yongmei Wang, Biopolymer, 101, 834-848 (2014) (doi:10.1002/bip.22461) 4. Capture and detection of cancer cells in whole blood with magnetic-optical nanoovals, Saheel Bhana, Elise A. Chaffin, Yongmei Wang, Sanjay R. Mishra, and Xiaohua Huang, Nanomedicine, 9, 593-606 (2014) (doi:10.2217/nnm.13.77) 5. HPLC characterization of hydrogenous polystyrene-b-deuterated polystyrene using isotope effect, Sanghoon Lee, Hyojoon Lee, Lam Thieu, Youncheol Jeong, Taihyun Chang, Chao Fu, Yutian Zhu, Yongmei Wang, Macromolecules, 46, 9114-9121 (2013) (doi:10.1021/ma4018247) Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .