#http://www.memphis.edu/moch/events/
Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities (MOCH) Events - MOCH - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities About Events Fellowships External Funding Links MOCH Events Lecture Series Humanities Brown Bag Series Home MOCH Events Fall 2015 Lecture Series All lectures will take place in the University Center Theatre, University of Memphis Free and open to the Public Convenient Parking: Zach Curlin Garage The Word of God in the Mother Tongue, Or why most of what we assume about the history of Bible translation is wrong Nicholas Watson // Harvard University // Shaheen Lecture The Shaheen Lecture is jointly sponsored by the Department of English and the Marcus Orr Center for the Humanities. Thursday, October 22, 2015 Reception at 5:30 PM, Lecture at 6:00 PM Professor Watson's lecture will consider the popular, but largely false, story that the there were no Bibles in English prior to the late fourteenth century. There is a widespread belief that the Bible was largely "trapped" in Latin—a language that few could understand—and jealously guarded from the direct gaze of the laity by church authorities who banned English copies. This tale, however widely shared, is not entirely true. There is an enormous body of vernacular writing from medieval England dedicated to the translation and exposition of the Christian Scriptures. The Scriptures were at the heart of vernacular preaching. They were fundamental to vernacular catechesis. They were a constant source of vernacular devout entertainment. Although we know of no full English Bibles before the late fourteenth century, the Bible was kept from the laity in neither practice nor theory. Vernacular Bible translation was never banned; it was basic to Christian teaching. Watson will discuss how the story of banned English Bibles came about and how it has influenced historical scholarship down the centuries. Nicholas Watson is the Henry C. and Anne M. Cabot Professor of English and Chair of Medieval Studies at Harvard University. He has degrees from Oxford, Cambridge, and the University of Toronto. He is the single or joint author of eight books, including Richard Rolle and the Invention of Authority (1991), Anchoritic Spirituality: "Ancrene Wisse" and Associated Works (1991), The Idea of the Vernacular: An Anthology of Middle English Literary Theory, 1280-1520 (1999), Writings of Julian of Norwich: "A Vision Showed to a Devout Woman" and "A Revelation of Love" (2006), and John of Morigny's "Liber florum celestis doctrine" (in press). He has also published more than fifty essays and articles. At present he is completing a study entitled Vernacular Theology Before the English Reformation (vol. 1 Balaam's Ass, vol. 2 Honey from Stones). 1177 BC: The Year Civilization Collapsed Eric Cline // George Washington University // Sesquicentennial Lecture The Sesquicentennial Lecture is jointly sponsored by the Department of History and the Marcus Orr Center for the Humanities. Thursday, November 5, 2015 Reception at 5:30 PM, Lecture at 6:00 PM Professor Clines' lecture will examine the swift demise of complex Late Bronze Age empires in the Mediterranean region around the year 1177 BC. For more than three hundred years, from about 1500 BC to 1200 BC, there existed a complex international world in which Egyptians, Mycenaeans, Minoans, Hittites, Assyrians, Babylonians, Cypriots, and Canaanites all interacted, creating a cosmopolitan and globalized world-system such as has only rarely been seen before the current day. Yet, around 1177 BC, these large empires and small kingdoms that had taken centuries to evolve began to rapidly collapse. With their end came the world's first recorded Dark Ages. It was not until centuries later that a new cultural renaissance emerged in Greece and the other affected areas, setting the stage for the evolution of Western society as we know it today. Blame for these events is usually laid squarely at the feet of the so-called Sea Peoples, known to us from the records of Egyptian pharaohs. However, as was the case with the fall of the Roman Empire, the end of the Bronze Age empires in this region was not the result of a single invasion, but of multiple causes. The Sea Peoples may well have been responsible for some of the destruction, but it is much more likely that a combination of events, both human and natural — including earthquakes, storms, droughts, famine, rebellions, and systems collapse — coalesced to cause such a cataclysmic turn of events. The similarities and parallels that can be drawn with the world today make this more than simply a study in ancient history. Eric H. Cline is Professor of Classics and Anthropology, former Chair of the Department of Classical and Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations, and current Director of the Capitol Archaeological Institute at The George Washington University, in Washington, DC. A Fulbright scholar, National Geographic Explorer, and active field archaeologist, he is a three-time winner of the Biblical Archaeology Society's "Best Popular Book on Archaeology" award (2001, 2009, and 2011) and winner of the 2014 "Best Popular Book" award from the American Schools of Oriental Research for 1177 BC: The Year Civilization Collapsed, which was also considered for a 2015 Pulitzer Prize. Dr. Cline has written (authored, co-authored, or edited) a total of sixteen books, which have been published by prestigious presses including Princeton, Oxford, Cambridge, Michigan, and National Geographic. Obama is Brazilian: (Re)Signifying Race Relations in Contemporary Brazil Emanuelle Oliveira-Monte // Vanderbilt University This lecture is jointly sponsored by the Department of Foreign Languages and Literature, the Department of Political Science, and the Marcus Orr Center for the Humanities. Thursday, November 19, 2015 Reception at 5:30 PM, Lecture at 6:00 PM Professor Oliveira-Monte's lecture will explore what President Barack Obama's election as the United States' first black president meant to Brazil, a country where 51 percent of the population is black but there has never been a black president. She looks largely at Obama's characterizations in the Brazilian media, and especially in political humor. Racially, Brazilians have always seen the United States as its nemesis: a country plagued by racial segregation and violence, whereas Brazil has been frequently seen as a "racial paradise," a nation devoid of color prejudice. However, the election of a black candidate for the highest office of the most powerful nation in the world revealed a conundrum for Brazil. Would it be possible for the country to elect a black president committed to Afro-Brazilians and marginalized segments of the population? Or is racial democracy forever destined to be a myth, an appeasing discourse that in reality relegates blacks to the society's lower strata? This lecture delves into these intriguing questions, revealing a continuous dialogue between the United States and Brazil, a dialogue in which racial categories are continuously rearticulated and reformulated. Emanuelle Oliveira-Monte is Associate Professor of Luso-Brazilian and Afro-Brazilian Literature in the Department of Spanish and Portuguese at Vanderbilt University. Her research interests include Afro-Brazilian literature, race relations, race in comparative perspective, the Afro-Diasporic experience, the relationship between politics and literature, literature of human rights, as well as Brazilian cinema and popular culture. She is currently working on a book manuscript tentatively entitled Obama Is Brazilian: (Re)Signifying Race Relations In Contemporary Brazil, which examines Obama's characterizations in the Brazilian media, especially ones of political humor, such as cartoons and Internet memes. The author of Writing Identity: The Politics of Contemporary Afro-Brazilian Literature (2007) and several articles in professional journals and anthologies, Dr. Oliviera-Monte has also translated Carolina Maria de Jesus' Diário de Bitita (1998). Please also check out our Brown Bag Lunch Series for Faculty Members! MOCH Events Lecture Series Humanities Brown Bag Series Donate to MOCH Support the programs and works of the Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities. Interdisciplinary Studies Serving as the home for academic programs which transcend the boundaries of the traditional academic departments. Contact MOCH Main contact information and location Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/24/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .