#http://www.memphis.edu/cas/pdfs/summary_letter.pdf
Sent via e - Dear Graduation Candidate: Attached please find your Summary of Coursework Remaining for graduation from the University of Memphis. Each student receives only one Summary unless the major or degree is changed . Meet with your advisor to go over the requirements you have remaining. If the information on the Summary of Coursework Remaining is not correct, your advisor should e - mail casgraduation@memphis.edu to inform us of any discrepancies. You must complete all requirements listed on your Summary of Coursework Remaining before your degree can be conferred. NOTE: If degree requirements are completed in the semester for which you applied, your degree wil l be certified about two weeks after the Commencement ceremony. If your graduation needs to be changed to a different semester, it is your responsibility to notify us via e - mail casgraduation@memphis.edu . NOTE: The page below is attached to the e - mail. Students are responsible for completing all degree requirements and should follow the guidelines below to ensure graduation in the semester for which they applied. NOTE: If degree re quirements are completed in the semester for which you applied, your degree will be certified about two weeks after the Commencement ceremony. If your graduation needs to be changed to a different semester, it is your responsibility to notify us via e - mai l casgraduation@memphis.edu . 1. The Summary of Coursework Remaining is the official notification of remaining requirements. Each student receives only one Summary unless the major or degree is changed. Af ter receiving your Summary in e - mail, you should go over it with your advisor, and if there are any questions or discrepancies, your advisor should e - mail casgraduation@memphis.edu . 2. Students must regi ster grades from previous semesters before their name s can be added to the graduation list for the application semester . 3. Student s must submit a Transfer Credit Request Form ( ) to the Admissions Office prior to taking any transfer courses during their final s emester and must bring a copy of the form signed by the Admissions Office to Scates 107. 4. All grade s for any course taken elsewhere during the final semester must be o n the University of Memphis transcript by th e certification deadline. 5. If you during the final semester, your graduation cannot be certified until you notify us that the certification date, which is about 2 weeks after graduation, a diploma cannot be issued until the following semester and will be dated the semester when these grades are entered into the system.) 6. Students are responsible for following catalog in formation regarding graduation. These requirements must be fulfilled in order to graduate: a. Complete no more than 42 hours in any one subject area counting towards graduation requirements (for students in 2011 catalogs and earlier) b. Complete a minimum of 42 Upper Division hours (3000 - 4000 level courses) c. co - requisite courses and earn at least a 2.0 GPA in the major d. Take at least 25% of t he (30 hours) e. Take at least 30 of the last 60 hours at the University of Memphis f. Take at least 60 hours of the 120 hours required at an accredited four - year institution g. Complete at least 120 h ours with no more than 2 hours of Physical Education (PHED) courses counting towards graduation requirements. h. Take any AREA exams required by y our major department prior to graduation (ask your advisor if you need to do this. 7. Check the Commenceme nt website for the date and time of the commencement ceremony and submit diploma mailing address and cap and gown information using Step 3 in the Commencement channel on the My Degree tab in myMemphis. 8. In order to walk in the Commencement c eremony, studen ts must fill out an Attendance Card when notified in e - mail by the Commencement office . 9. C heck the spelling of your name and Honors information i n the Commencement proof at least a month prior to the ceremony (available on the Commencement website in the mi ddle of the semester of graduation). 10. If your name changes or is incorrect in myMemphis or on the Apply to Graduate form , or if you want your middle name added to your record so that it will show on your diploma, you must use the form at this link and prov ide appropriate documents to correct it: - banner/data_quality/forms/name_chg.pdf . You will also need to update the Diploma Mailing/Cap and Go wn Order form in Step 3 in the Commencement and Graduation channel, and e - mail casgraduation@memphis.edu to let us know of your name change. 11. If your address changes, update the Diploma Mailing/Cap and Gown o rder form in Step 3 in the Commencement channel on the My Degree tab in myMemphis. 12. Read your UM e - mail during your final semester for information that will assist in preparing for the ceremony and for graduation, and refer to the Checklist for Graduati on for other information: