#http://www.memphis.edu/cas/pdfs/grad_checklist.pdf
Checklist for Graduation for Majors in the College of Arts and Sciences 1. Apply to g rad uate and order your cap and gown in myMemphis on the My Degree tab in the Commencement and Graduation channel. 2. Several weeks after your application is received, t he Gr aduation Analyst for the C ollege of Arts and Sciences will complete a Summary of Coursework Remaining and will e - mail a copy to you and to your advisor. This Summary will indicate the courses you still need to complete , in addition to those you are regist e red for in the current semester and in any future semesters . 3. After filing your graduation application , if you need to change your graduation date, you must e - mail casgraduation@memphis.edu with your name, U number and expected graduation term. Unless a student has updated the expected graduation term through e - mail, if all requirements are complete, the student will be certified for graduation in the term for which the application was received. 4. If you are applying to g raduate because you are completing an additional major for the same degree, you will receive a Summary of Coursework Remaining but you will not be included in another Commencement Ceremony and will not receive an additional diploma . Students will be included in a Commencement Ceremony only once for each degree earned. 5. Print out and t ake your Summary of Coursework Remaining to your advisor and be sure you understand the courses you must take and any other needs listed on your Summary. 6. M eet with your academic advisor to review the Summary of Coursework Remaining , and if there are any questions, your advisor should call or e - mail the Graduation Analyst for clarification so that all concerned will know the answers . 7. It is YOUR responsibility to ask your advisor if you need to complete an Area Exit Exam during your final semester at the University. 8. If your mailing address changes after you apply to graduate , please update the Diploma Mailing/Cap and Gown Order form in the Commencement and Gradua tion channel. 9. If your name is incorrect in myMemphis or on the Apply to Graduate form or if you want your middle name added to your record so that it will show on your diploma, you must use the form at this link and provide appropriate documents to corre ct it: - banner/data_quality/forms/name_chg.pdf 10. Y our name will appear on the Commencement program and your diploma as listed on your diploma m ailing form at the time of the first program proof. If your name cha nges after the first proof, update the Diploma Mailing/Cap and Gown form and notify our office at casgraduation@memphis.edu . Check the Co mmencement proof to be sure your name is correct. The Semester of Your Expected Graduation Pay all University fees ce, 678 - 5579 . Transcripts and diplomas will be held until you are free of debt to the University. The Commencement Office will e - mail all students on the gr aduation list for each semester so that they can fill out important commencement materials and access information about commencem ent. Read carefully the Commencement website ( ), and f ollow the steps on this Undergraduate Graduation Checklist. At least a month prior to the graduation ceremony, c heck your name on the program proofs posted in Scates 107 or on the Commencement website , for correct degree, honor(s), a nd spelling of y our name as you want it on your diploma and in the graduation program . Also check to make sure the name listed matches the name in myMemphis . Please read the p olicy on name c hanges on the Commencement website. The proof is usually posted about the middl e of the semester. Your diploma will be m ailed to you by the Commencement Office 8 to 10 weeks after the ceremony . Changes in honors or other printing corrections will be reordered automatically and mailed to you from the Commencement Office . Walking in the Commencement ceremony does not mean that you have graduated. You must be registered for and attending all classes needed for graduation for your name to be included on the Commencement list . After the ceremony, you must have completed all requiremen ts for your degree to be award ed. A grad e of Incomplete will delay graduation until the following term. Grades for all transfer courses must be in the University system no more than two degree to be award ed . COMMENCEMENT Information Check the Commencement Office website for updated information on the following items: Academic Honors Commencement Schedule Ti me and Location Name Change policy Ordering invitations Pronouncer Cards Graduates not attending Commencemen t and more Commencement Arrival : Allow time for parking at the site of Commencement. PLEASE DO NOT BE LATE! Ch eck the Commencement website for time and location.