#http://www.memphis.edu/cas/pdfs/transfer_work_explanation_cas.pdf
Transfer Work Explanation After transfer students are admitted to the University of Memphis , the Admissions Office goes through any of ours. Sometimes, especially during the last month or so before the beginning of a semester, students are admitted but the equivalency process has not been completed. Viewing Transfer Work (SHATRNS) : The best place to check transfer credits is in Native Banner (INB) on the SHATRNS form. Instructions for using this form are found here: On this form you can see what number the course was at the previous school, and if it has been given a Gen Ed distinction of some type at the Attribute field (item 7) on the instructions. This form also shows if the course was upper division at the previous school and lower division here or vice versa. If it was lower division at that school, the student receives lower divisio n hours for it here, even if our course with that number is a n upper division course , and vice versa. Equivalent Courses: If students transfer a course that has been deemed an equivalent by the department of that discipline, the course comes across as that specific course . F or example, if HIST 101 at XYZ institution has been equated to HIST 1110, then the HIST 1110 course n are tables created by Admissions to show what courses have been deemed equivalents from many other schools: dmissions/equivalency_table.htm Non - Equivalent Courses: If students transfer a course that has not (yet) been deemed as an equivalent to any specific course on our campus, the course comes across as LD or UD with a two digit number afte r it, such as LD 01 (LD for l ower division and UD for upper division ) . These courses DO count as college credit (if the student received a passing grade), and they may be used for general education or BA /BS requirements, or major requirements, and certainly count as hours toward graduation. Each major department makes the decisi on about courses in that discipline for majors and minors to know if they meet certain requirements. or a committee. UMdegree Petitions: Use UMdegree to p etition for General Education exceptions and subs t it utions as directed on the Petitions explanation sheet. BA/BS and Major Exceptions/Substitutions: Send an e - mail to casgraduation@memphis.edu to request substitutions or exceptions for courses in the major or that fulfill BA/BS requirements. It is also a good idea to make note of these in the Notes section of UMdegree. C urrent UM students who want to take one or more course s at another institution should follow the directions for the Transfer Credit Request form : Transfer Cre dit Agreement (Arts and Sciences): Lower Division course for Upp er Division requirement/credit - Departments may approve substituting a lower division course for a major requirement; however, remember that this does not mean that the course is automatically approved as upper division. There is a separate process for validating the course as upper division. Student s need to understand whether the course is only fulfilling the requirement, and if they will need an additional upper division course in the major to complete the hours needed. 1 - E - mail casgraduation@memphis.ed u to request that a lower division course be used in place of an upper division requirement in the major (include the student name and U number and the specific course prefix and number) 2 - To validate a course as upper division, the appropriate person(s) in your department would look at the syllabus and description of the course, and either approve it as being upper division or ask the student to test or complete additional items to merit upper division credit. Then an e - mail should be sent to Mary Jones, majones@memphis.edu , and Gloria Moore, gmoore@memphis.edu , with the student name and U number and the specific course prefix and number, stating that the course should rece ive upper division credit, and whether this is for the individual student or all students transferring the course. Three hour transfer Natural Science courses - SHATRNS, it will complete the requiremen t for Natural Science for Gen Ed or the degree requirement of Natural Science. Students will still need 1 more hour toward graduation.