#http://www.memphis.edu/libraries/circulation/
Circulation Homepage - Libraries - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Libraries About Services Resources Instruction Special Collections Technology Circulation Staff Check-out Policies Department Hours Search/Recall/Hold Form Home Libraries Circulation QuickSearch Articles Journal Titles Databases Search for books, articles, media, and more: Advanced QuickSearch | Classic Catalog | Research Guides | WorldCat Search most databases for articles: All Databases | Find Full Text from Citation | Research Guides Find Journals, Newspapers, and Magazines by Title or ISSN: Title begins with Title equals Title contains all words ISSN equals Browse Journals | Find Full Text from Citation | Research Guides Find a Database Using Title or Keywords: All Databases | Research Guides | Most Used Databases: Business Source Premier CINAHL Complete Comm. and Mass Media CQ Press Electronic Library Education Full Text JSTOR LexisNexis Academic OmniFile Full Text Mega Opposing Viewpoints Project MUSE PsycINFO About The McWherter Libraries Circulation Department is located on the first floor of the McWherter Library on the north side of the atrium. In addition to answering general information questions, Circulation is your location to check out or return library material---including books, laptop computers, headphones, whiteboard markers, GoPro cameras, Pocket Projectors, calculators, phone chargers, Reserved Material, Government Publications and DVDs. Circulation is also the checkout and return area for Interlibrary Loan materials. A valid U of Memphis ID card is required to pick up or check out any material. U of Memphis undergraduate students have a checkout limit of 35 items 30 day checkout for books from the stacks. U of Memphis graduate students and staff have semester checkout privileges with a limit of 50 items. U of Memphis faculty have an academic year checkout period with a limit of 100 items. Books from the stacks are renewable 2 times online with fines assessed at $.25 per day per book for all patrons. Laptop computers with chargers, headphones and markers are checked out to U of Memphis personnel only for 4 hours and may not be renewed online, but may be brought back to the checkout desk to be returned and checked out again. Fines are $20.00 per hour or part of an hour for laptop and charger checkout. GoPro Camera kits may be checked out to U of Memphis personnel for 3 days. Overdue fines are $2.00 an hour or part of an hour. The kits cannot be checked out again upon return, but must remain in the library for 24 hours. The following items may be checked out to U of Memphis personnel for 4 hour periods, are not renewable online and have overdue fines of $2.00 an hour or part of an hour: Firefly Touchscreen kits Pocket Projector Kits Phone chargers, wall adaptors, Apple 30 pins, Apple Lightning cords, 30 pins to HDMI, Apple Lightning to VGA adaptors and Samsung Micro USB to HDMI adaptors Memphis residents, U of Memphis Alumni and faculty or students from local universities (hereafter Reciprocal borrowers) may apply for borrowing privileges which allow a 30 day checkout period for up to 10 books. Circulation will create a borrowing card for residents and alumni, but registered Reciprocal borrowers may use their university ID to be logged on to a public computer or to check out books. The initial card is complimentary, a replacement for the card is $10.00. Renewal of items are either in person with the books or by telephone (901-678-2205). To renew by telephone, the patron will be asked for each book bar code. Books may be renewed 2 times by telephone but must be brought in to renew thereafter. Memphis high school students may apply to borrow books. If the student is under 18 years of age, the application must be signed by the student's parent or legal guardian. Up to 5 books at a time may be checked out for a two week period with two renewals either in person with the borrowed books or by telephone. The Circulation Department is open from: 7:30 a.m. until 11:45 p.m. Monday through Thursday, 7:30 a.m. until 5:45 p.m. on Friday, 10 a.m. until 5:45 p.m. on Saturday 1 p.m. until 9:45 p.m. on Sunday. The Circulation public desk number is (901) 678-2205. The library hours line is ((01) 678-8240. Circulation Staff Check-out Policies Department Hours Search/Recall/Hold Form My Library Account Review your library account for due dates and more. Interlibrary Loan Request books, articles, and other research materials from other libraries. Reserve space Group study and presentation spaces available in the library. Ask-a-Librarian Got a question? Got a problem? Ask Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .