#http://www.memphis.edu/drs/policies/rclftts.php
Reduced Course Load - Full-Time Status - Disability Resources for Students - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Disability Resources for Students About Access Accommodations Technology Policies Career Programs Faculty Disability Policies Overview Student Responsibilities Student Disability Grievances University Disability Access Policy Attendance Policies Reduced Course Load Home Disability Resources for Students Disability Policies Reduced Course Load - Full-Time Status Reduced Course Load - Full-Time Status Issued: May 3, 2011 Responsible Executive Officer: Vice President for Student Affairs Responsible Office: Disability Resources for Students Policy Statement Undergraduate students with disabilities are eligible to request special status which, if approved, would allow them to take a reduced course load of not less than nine (9) hours while maintaining a full time status, so long as such reduced course load does not affect the academic integrity of the program in which a student is enrolled. Approval of reduced course load/full time status (RL/FT) is not a permanent status, but must be requested and re-evaluated each semester to determine the impact of the student's disability in relation to the demands of his/her course schedule. Students approved for RL/FT are entitled to all University services and privileges enjoyed by full time students, except in situations controlled by external entities not bound by this policy. If the student drops below the approved number of hours for RL/FT, the full time status will no longer be in effect. Students approved for RL/FT are held to the same academic requirements and standards for satisfactory academic progress as apply to other students. Deadlines for requesting RL/FT are August 1 for Fall semester and January 2 for Spring semester. The Request Form and all supporting documentation must be received in Disability Resources for Students by these dates. Confidentiality of disability information is protected by the American's with Disabilities Act and records pertaining to the RL/FT status are subject to FERPA regulations. Purpose To provide full time status to students with significant disabilities who, as a direct result of disability, are unable to carry a full course load and, consequently, to enable them to participate fully in the benefits and privileges afforded full time students. Procedures Request for Reduced Course Load/Full Time Status. The student must submit to his/her Disability Resources for Students Coordinator a Request for Reduced Course Load/Full Time Status Form along with supporting medical and/or psychological documentation that is recent enough to evaluate the current impact of the disability. Medical and psychological information must meet existing documentation guidelines established by Disability Resources for Students. Other applicable supporting documents may be provided with the application in addition to the medical and/or psychological information. Depending on the nature of the disability, the student may or may not be asked to provide updated medical and/or psychological information for re-evaluation in subsequent semesters. Evaluation and Determination. The Disability Services Coordinator will submit the student's Request Form and supporting documentation, along with a recommendation for approval or disapproval, to the Director of Disability Resources for Students. The Director of Disability Resources for Students will evaluate the application and supporting documentation in terms of the impact of the disability and the demands of the student's proposed schedule and will determine if the request is justified. Notification of Possible Impact. If the request is approved, the Director of Disability Resources for Students will inform the student in writing of the possible impact a reduced load may have on internal and external areas not bound by the approval. The student will be required to sign this statement acknowledging that he/she has been informed. Notification to Appropriate Departments. The Director of Disability Resources for Students will provide notification of the RL/FT approval to the following entities: Director of Financial Aid, Dean of Students, the student's advisor and, when applicable, the Director of Athletic Academic Services. Appeal. If the request is denied, the student may appeal the Director's decision first to the Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs/Student Development and then, if necessary, through the Student Appeal Procedure for Discrimination which is published in the Student Handbook. Related Forms Request for Reduced Course Load/Full-Time Status Form Disability Policies Overview Student Responsibilities Student Disability Grievances University Disability Access Policy Attendance Policies Reduced Course Load Contact DRS DRS Announcements Student and Faculty Awards Thanks to Our Volunteer Note-takers! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .