#http://www.memphis.edu/music/Academics/choralstudies.php
Choral Studies - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Academics Degrees Offered Applied Music Brass Class Piano Collaborative Piano Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Vocal Arts Woodwinds Composition, Theory and Musicology Conducting and Large Ensembles Jazz Studies Music Education Area Information Orff Summer Institute Graduate Studies in Music Education Music Industry Music Library Home Music Academics Choral Studies The Choral Studies Area offers a Master of Music and a Doctor of Musical Arts in Choral Conducting. The program is designed to be small and highly selective. Enrollment is intentionally limited and auditions are competitive. Our objective is to develop technically capable, expressive conductors, prepared to succeed. Assistantships and Scholarships Graduate Assistantships are available for Master's and Doctoral students up to $8000. Graduate assistantships have teaching responsibilities and/or other responsibilities that are determined by the needs of the School. For Choral Conductors, duties are divided among the various ensembles and include: Teaching assistant for undergraduate choral conducting classes.Assist with all aspects of the University Singers, our concert choirAssist with all aspects of the University Chamber ChoirAssist the Director of Choirs with all aspects of the choral program Conducting Assignments Choral Conducting majors work with the University Singers, University Chamber Choir, Collegiate Choir and/or Sound Fuzion. Responsibilities include running sectional rehearsals, full rehearsals and conducting pieces on the public concerts. Audition Information All potential students must apply and be accepted by both the School of Music and by the University. Acceptance to the School of Music is contingent upon being accepted by the University. Seek enrollment in the University by contacting the University Graduate Office of Admissions at 901.678.2911. For more information, visit the University Graduate School's web site. Applicants for the choral conducting degrees must submit a videotape of a rehearsal and performance along with the required admission forms as soon as possible. Applicants are required to submit a list of performances with compositions studied during the past year. Qualified applicants will be invited for an in-person audition, including an interview. The committee will be looking for the potential of success as a choral artist by evaluating present conducting technique. A major portion of the interview will be devoted to assessing potential student's aural musical skills. Students will sight-sing, and be given an error detection exam. The ability of the applicant to communicate effectively with an ensemble during a rehearsal is also taken into consideration. In addition to the audition, it is necessary for all graduate students to take a proficiency exam in music history and music theory. These tests are given on the first two days of registration every semester. Contact the Graduate Music Office for specific dates and times. Admission and Assistantship applications and other information about acceptance into the School of Music may be obtained by contacting: Associate Director for Graduate Studies Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music The University of Memphis 129 Music Building Memphis, TN 38152-3160 Call 901.678.3532 Return the Graduate school application to the University Graduate School Admissions office. Return the application for Graduate Assistantships in Music to the Music School Graduate Studies Office. Requirements for admission into the graduate choral conducting program include: A Bachelor's Degree in Music from an accredited institutionA mastery of advanced conducting techniques gained through conducting experience beyond the undergraduate level.Submission of transcripts of all previous college work For more information on the Choral Conducting Graduate degree, contact Lawrence Edwards, Director of Choral Activities, at edwards@memphis.edu . Faculty Lawrence Edwards (Ed.D) Ryan Fisher (Ph.D.) Links Choral Ensembles Academics Degrees Offered Applied Music Brass Class Piano Collaborative Piano Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Vocal Arts Woodwinds Composition, Theory and Musicology Conducting and Large Ensembles Jazz Studies Music Education Area Information Orff Summer Institute Graduate Studies in Music Education Music Industry Music Library Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .