#http://www.memphis.edu/libraries/circulation/staff.php
Staff Page - Libraries - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Libraries About Services Resources Instruction Special Collections Technology Circulation Staff Check-out Policies Department Hours Search/Recall/Hold Form Home Libraries Circulation Staff Page Shelia Gaines, Department Head sgaines1@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-8201 Office: McWherter Library: RM 102K Responsibilities: Manages operations related to personnel, borrowers, billing, Reserve Room, student workers, equipment, and circulating collections. Shelia responds to inquiries, complaints, and suggestions. She also maintains files, reports and statistics for the department. Frankie M. Perry, Billing Associate fperry@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-4483 Office: McWherter Library: RM 102J Responsibilities: Frankie handles fines, maintains files, reconciles accounts, and acts as a liaison to the Bursar's office. She handles accounts for Interlibrary Loan, Government Publications, Reserve Room, branch libraries, and area colleges as well. Sharon Tucker, Library Assistant III stucker@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-8248 Office: McWherter Library: RM 102F Responsibilities: As the Evening Supervisor, Sharon monitors evening activity, keeps stats, assigns study carrels, and assists with Reserve Room processing. Delaine Pegues, Library Assistant II dpegues@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-2205 Office: McWherter Library: RM 102C Responsibilities: In addition to public service assistance, Delaine compiles statistics for our Special Privilege users, records student hours and completes their payroll. She also maintains New Additions collection, orders supplies, maintains supply cabinet and assists with shelving. Greg Woods, Library Assistant II gwoods@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-5124 Office: McWherter Library: RM 102J Responsibilities: In addition to public service assistance, Greg checks book drops, monitors laptop usage, compiles book log stats, does book repair, and assists with shelf maintenance projects.. ReKeycha Harris, Library Assistant I rharris1@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-2205 Office: McWherter Library: Room 102 Responsibilities: In addition to general Circulation duties (sorting and shelving books, assisting at the public service desk, and executing projects essential to the library), ReKeycha serves as a liaison to the Cataloging Department. ReKeycha also works specifically to maintain the order of the collections found on the 1st and 2nd floors (Government Publications, Research and Information Services - Reference, and Periodicals). Sheneva Graham, Library Assistant I sgraham3@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-2205 Office: McWherter Library; Room 102 Responsibilities: In addition to general Circulation duties (sorting and shelving books, assisting at the public service desk, and executing projects essential to the library), Sheneva serves as a liaison to the Cataloging Department. She also works specifically to maintain the order of the 3rd floor collection. Zachary Sandberg, Library Assistant I zsandbrg@memphis.edu Phone: (901)678-2205 Office: McWherter Library; Room 102 Responsibilities: In addition to general Circulation duties (sorting and shelving books, assisting at the public service desk, and executing projects essential to the library), Zach delivers materials to the academic departments across campus and maintains statistics for our Document Delivery Pilot. He also works specifically to maintain the order of the 4th floor collection. Circulation Staff Check-out Policies Department Hours Search/Recall/Hold Form My Library Account Review your library account for due dates and more. Interlibrary Loan Request books, articles, and other research materials from other libraries. Reserve space Group study and presentation spaces available in the library. Ask-a-Librarian Got a question? Got a problem? Ask Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .