#http://www.memphis.edu/acad1100/yourfirstfreshmanweek.php
Your First Freshman Week - ACAD1100 - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. ACAD1100 ACAD Courses Student Resources Faculty Resources Meet the Faculty Meet the Staff Home ACAD1100 Your First Freshman Week The first big week on campus. Your first week at the University of Memphis will be exciting, but in all the rush, there are some things you must do in order to make your transition to college life smooth. Check location of classes Check myMemphis to CONFIRM buildings and room numbers for classes, at least 48 hours prior to class. Room assignments may change after you have registered and printed your schedule. Register your car now All cars on campus must be registered and have the parking permit displayed or they are subject to ticketing and/or towing. You should have received your parking hang tag from Parking Services in the mail prior to the semester beginning. Buy all your books early Get your required texts for all your classes at the beginning of the term. The bookstore sometimes runs short, and books may be hard to get later. Most required materials (as well as other school supplies) are available at the University Bookstore near the University Center. Keep all receipts—if you need to return your book because of schedule changes (or because you bought the wrong text), you'll need the receipt for a full refund. Go to all your classes and read the syllabus Each of your teachers will pass out a syllabus within the first couple of days of the semester. Read each syllabus carefully and ask questions about any unclear parts. Go to all classes—don't make the mistake of thinking that it is okay to miss the early lectures. This is when your teachers set out the goals, expectations and even the mood of the classroom. Faculty are required to report attendance to the financial aid office, to ensure eligibility. Faculty are also encouraged to submit "early intervention" reports for poor attendance as well as other behaviors which may interfere with success in class. We can't say it enough, go to class! Add or drop classes correctly During the first week you have the opportunity to adjust your schedule by dropping and adding classes. IT IS UP TO YOU TO MAKE SURE YOU HAVE BEEN DROPPED FROM A CLASS ROSTER IF YOU DROP! If you simply stop attending the class, you may receive an "F" on your grade report at the end of the semester. Search out study spots Go exploring for places to study. Check out the second, third and fourth floors of the McWherter Library, and various other out-of-the-way nooks which seem comfortable for your study needs. Work out stress Even the most concientious student needs to burn off steam and get the blood flowing.Explore the renovated and expanded Student Recreation and Fitness Center. Check out the track, the gym, the weights, the pool and the many exercise and health programs available. Join in Investigate all of the campus groups available to join. Check out the Student Leadership &amp; Involvement page for a listing of campus organizations. Attend those campus activities that interest you. Phone home Email or phone home regularly. This is good for you and for those who miss you. Pay those bills Pay all your bills due the University as quickly as possible. Non-payment means you cannot access your grades and can't register for the next semester! You can now pay your bills online on myMemphis under your Accounts tab. Get a TigerLAN Password To have Internet access, computer labs, university email, and many other services offered by Computer Services, a TigerLAN password is required. To get this password, you can go to either Room 134 in the Administration Building, or any of the TigerLAN Labs on campus (such as the Library or Smith Chemistry Building). Simply swipe your University ID card through the reader and it will give you a User ID and password. If you have problems, ask a lab attendant. For more information as well as lab hours, please check TigerLAN link. Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .