#http://www.memphis.edu/polisci/jd-ma-program/
JD/MA Program Resources - Political Science - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Political Science About Undergraduate Graduate JD/MA Program Internships People JD/MA Program Resources Contact Admissions Requirements Law Courses Required Law Electives Other Home Political Science JD/MA JD/MA Program Over the years, both undergraduate and graduate students at the University of Memphis have requested a dual program for the Law J.D. and the Political Science M.A. degree programs. The advantage of such a program is that credit towards degrees in these career-related disciplines can be earned simultaneously if admissions and curricula are carefully structured. Many reputable institutions elsewhere, such as Yale, Duke, Syracuse, Tulane, and Cincinnati, have such programs. None of them, however, is close to Memphis, so adding the program provides a competitive advantage in the Mid-South. Below are the requirements for the TBR-approved program. Basically, students may begin the M.A. in Political Science and then, pending separate admission, attend Law School where they may apply 16 credit hours (see below) to finish the M.A. Alternatively, they may first begin Law School and, pending separate admission, follow with the M.A. degree and similarly apply 16 hours of Law School credit to the M.A. This is a wonderful opportunity for students. If you have any questions, please contact Dr. Eric Groenendyk , POLS Graduate Recruitment Coordinator or Dr. Matthias Kaelberer , Department Chair. Dual MA-JD Program A. Program Admission: Admission to the dual program will require separate admission to each program. However, for applications to the joint program, the Political Science Department will accept LSAT scores in lieu of the GRE. Students are admitted into each program separately; completion of one degree is not contingent upon completion of both. B. Program Requirements: 1. Dual Credit Students may earn up to a maximum of sixteen hours of dual credit for law courses taken at the law school. The remaining hours toward the M.A. in Political Science must be taken in Political Science. The following courses will qualify for both the J.D. and M.A. in Political Science: Law Courses Required at Law School Constitutional Law 4 hours, Criminal Law 3 hours, Criminal Procedure I 3 hours Law School Electives Administrative Law 3 hours, Criminal Procedure II 2 hours, Federal Courts 3 hours, Civil Rights 3 hours, Constitutional Law Seminar 2 hours, Tennessee Con Law 2 hours, Jurisprudence 2 hours, Public International Law 3 hours, Comparative Law 2 hours, Immigration Law 3 hours, Environmental Law 3 hours Other Requirements For students in the dual program, their first year of law school must include only classes that are part of the J.D. program. With the above exceptions, all the normal requirements for admission and graduation for a J.D. and for an M.A. in Political Science apply. JD/MA Program Resources Contact Admissions Requirements Law Courses Required Law Electives Other Alumni and Friends Find out how you can support the Department of Political Science. News and Events Read about student and faculty awards and semester events. RSO/Clubs The Department of Political Science is affiliated with several UofM registered student clubs. Contact Main office contact and location information. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .