#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/cas/military.php
Military Science - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Military Science Military Science The Department of Military Science provides a four-year program of instruction designed to provide qualified college men and women with practical experience in the art of organizing, motivating and leading others. The program is divided into two courses each of two years duration. The first, called the Basic Course, offers instruction in leadership skills, soldiering skills, and the role and use of armed forces. The second, called the Advanced Course, builds on the Basic Course, offers practical leadership experience, and prepares the student for commissioning as an Army officer. Students may apply for the four year program, which can be completed in three years with department permission, or for the two-year program. Department faculty and staff are active duty Army personnel detailed by Department of the Army and approved by the University president. The Army officers are appointed by the University as Professor or Assistant Professor of Military Science. Students interested in enrolling in any Military Science course should contact the Department of Military Science. THE BASIC COURSE The Basic Course, two years in duration, consists of two semesters of one hour per week of classroom instruction and two semesters of two hours per week of classroom instruction. Courses are designed to be taken in the following order: ARMY 1100, 1110, 1115, 1120, 2100, 2115, 2120, 3105. All textbooks are furnished, without charge, by the department. All offered courses count as elective credit toward the total university required hours for a degree. ARMY 2115/2120 meets the physical activity portion of the University General Education Program Fitness and Wellness requirement. The Basic Course is designed for incoming freshmen. All other students are eligible to enter and may compress the Basic Course requirements into one year, with department permission. There is NO MILITARY OBLIGATION for enrolling in the Basic Course. Unless specified in the course description, students in the Basic Course are not required to wear uniforms or attend leadership laboratory. Students who successfully complete the Basic Course may apply for entry into the Advanced Course. THE ADVANCED COURSE The Advanced Course prepares qualified, selected male and female students for commissioning as Army officers while they continue to pursue academic degrees. Upon graduation, students may then serve in the Regular Army, Army Reserve, or Army National Guard in a variety of career fields. To be eligible for the Advanced Course, the student must have completed the Basic Course or equivalent, (see 2-year program), be enrolled in the university full time, have at least two years remaining at the university (undergraduate or graduate), and be a U.S. citizen. Final selection is based on demonstrated academic performance, leadership potential, a qualifying score on the Officer Selection Battery of Tests, and physical qualifications. The Advanced Course is two years in duration. During each of four semesters, the student attends three hours per week of classroom instruction and two hours per week of leadership laboratory. It is composed of ARMY 3100, 3111, 3115, 3121, 4100, 4110, 4111, 4115, and 4121, in sequence. All students receive a monthly subsistence allowance of $200.00, tax free, while enrolled in classes. All textbooks, uniforms, and equipment are furnished, without charge, by the department. Students are given the opportunity to develop their leadership skills through the leadership laboratory, field training, and the Advanced Camp. The leadership laboratory is designed around a cadet structure that parallels a U.S. Army unit. Field training exercises are conducted over a weekend and are an extension of the laboratory. Students are also required to attend a six-week Advanced Camp during the summer between their two years in the Advanced Course. Advanced Camp is held at a U.S. Army post. Students are paid for the six weeks at the rate of one-half the pay of a Second Lieutenant and are furnished quarters and rations as well as transportation to and from the post. All required courses count as elective credit toward the total university required hours for a degree. Completion of the Advanced Course meets the Fitness and Wellness University General Education Program requirement. THE SENIOR ARMY ADVANCED COURSE The Senior Army Advanced Course prepares qualified, male and female students for commissioning as Army officers while they continue to pursue academic degrees. Upon graduation, students may then serve in the Regular Army, Army Reserve, or Army National Guard in a variety of career fields. To be eligible for the Senior Army Advanced Course, the student must have completed the four year ROTC academic program, be enrolled in the university, and be a U.S. citizen. Enrollment in the Senior Army Advanced Course is on a case by case requirement. All textbooks, uniforms, and equipment are furnished, without charge, by the department or university. Students are given the opportunity to further develop their leadership skills through the leadership laboratory, and mandatory physical training. The leadership laboratory is designed around a cadet's structure and all Field Training Exercises are conducted over a weekend and are an extension of the laboratory. The Senior Army Advanced Course does not count as credit toward the total university required hours for a degree. THE TWO-YEAR PROGRAM The Two-Year Program provides the opportunity to those students who did not enroll in the Four-Year Program to enroll in the Advanced Course. There are three methods for students to receive placement credit for the Basic Course and enter directly into the Advanced Course. Students who meet qualifying criteria may receive credit for the Basic Course by attending the six-week Basic Camp at Fort Knox, Kentucky, during the summer. NO MILITARY OBLIGATION is incurred by the student by attending the Basic Camp. Students are paid for the six weeks at the rate of one-half the pay of a Second Lieutenant and are furnished quarters and rations as well as transportation to and from, or a mileage allowance for use of their own automobile. Successful completion of the Basic Camp will make the student eligible to enter the Advanced Course. Interested students should contact the Department of Military Science anytime during the academic year preceding the summer they desire to attend the camp. Students who have completed Army Basic Combat Training and Advanced Individual Training or who have completed a minimum of three years of Army Junior ROTC in high school may be granted credit for the Basic Course by the Professor of Military Science and would then be eligible for entry into the Advanced Course, provided all other requirements are met. These students, as well as Basic Camp graduates, selected for enrollment in the Advanced Course are enrolled with the same status as cadets in the Four-Year Program. THE MINOR A minor in Military Science can be obtained through meeting the following requirements: 19 semester hours consisting of ARMY 3100, 3105, 3111, 3115, 3121, 4100, 4111, 4115 and 4121. SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM Scholarships paying tuition, maintenance fee and other fees, a book allowance, and a tax-free subsistence allowance of $200.00 per month are available to university freshmen and sophomores who are competitive academically and who will enroll in the Army ROTC program. Applications are taken from December to February each academic year. Details concerning qualifications can be obtained from the Department of Military Science. SIMULTANEOUS MEMBERSHIP PROGRAM The Simultaneous Membership Program is a voluntary program under which qualified cadets in the Advanced Course may concurrently join an Army National Guard unit. The program is designed to provide cadets with additional opportunities for leadership development and, at the same time, provide them with practical unit experience as Second Lieutenant. Cadets serve in an officer-trainee capacity and participate in regular unit drills held one weekend per month and two weeks per summer. Cadets are paid for all drills at the rate of a sergeant. This pay is in addition to the regular monthly subsistence for Army ROTC cadets. Details concerning qualifications and information on availability of allocations can be obtained from the Department of Military Science. PROFESSIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION Professional Military Education is a component of the academic preparation for students desiring to pursue a commission as an Army officer. It consists of two essential parts, a baccalaureate degree and completion of university-taught, undergraduate courses from each of five designated fields of study. The fields of study are written communications, human behavior, military history, computer literacy, and math reasoning. Military Science students enrolled in the Advanced Course are also encouraged to take management and national security studies. Students may substitute approved alternative courses for any of these requirements. This is a requirement for students enrolled in the Advanced Course only, though applicable courses taken during enrollment in the Basic Course or before enrollment may still meet the requirement. Related required and elective courses taken for university degree requirements may also satisfy the requirement. Some of the Professional Military Education required courses may be waived by the Professor of Military Science if they would interfere with a student’s required curriculum for award of a particular university degree. SPONSORED ACTIVITIES The Department of Military Science sponsors the following voluntary extracurricular activities to provide students in both the Basic Course and Advanced Course with additional opportunities to develop leadership in conjunction with extending the student’s knowledge of military skills: 1. The Army ROTC Tiger Color Guard-Members develop skill in standard drill and military ceremonies. The team provides color guards at the University of Memphis athletic events and drills competitively against ROTC teams of other colleges and universities. The team is open to individuals enrolled in any Military Science course. 2. U of M Ranger Company-Members develop skills associated with patrolling, mountaineering, survival training, and other similar activities. The Ranger Company is an adventure-type unit under the direction of Army ROTC Advanced Course cadets. Membership is open to all interested full-time students. College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .