#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/other/2015FSCMS3510M51.pdf
Page 1 of 7 Course Syllabus SCMS 3510 M51 Operations Management Fall Semester, 2015 3.0 Credit Hours (Last updated: 8/22 /2015) Instructor: Bradford R. Eichhorn, DBA, PMP Phone: 901 - 678 - 3893 E - mail: B.Eichhorn@memphis.edu Office: FCB 236 Office Hours: Monday By appointment Tuesday 9:00 9:30, 11:30 1:00, 2:30 3:00 Wednesday 6:00 7:00pm Thursday 9:00 9:30, 11:30 1:00, 2:30 3:00 Friday By appointment Course Overview This course provides an introduction to operations management, competitive strategy, capacity planning, process selection and design, quality management and tools, supply chain management, inventory management, resource planning (MRP/ERP), and lean systems. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites SCMS 2710 or MATH 1530 are prerequisites that I must assume you have fully comprehended and can apply. We will be applying selected analytical techniques from those courses in this course. Required Texts (and Related M aterials) CONNECT : Purchase the online CONNECT code from this course by signing onto the McGraw Hill site for this course : .com/class/b - eichhorn - 2015 - fall - 003 The eBook is included with that purchase no printed textbook is necessary. Page 2 of 7 Recommended Texts (and Related Materials) providing your own 3 - ring binder to save money. Location of Course Materials The eCourseware link is Course Objectives This course provides an introduction to operations management which is the running of a manufacturing or service - providing business . This course is a core course for many, but not all, business majors . At the successful completion of this course, a student will be able to: 1. Accurately define and describe operations management for product and service firms , 2. Differentiate key ch aracteristics between product and service firms , 3. List be primary versions of forecasting business requirements , 4. Describe the purpose and value of quality control and its basi c techniques , 5. Explain the various levels of planning and their data requirements and generate the various plans , 6. Describe modern inventory management and techniques to monitor inventory levels and flow , 7. Describe the various primary and emerging technologie s available, 8. Explore how your current professional interests intersect with operations management, and 9. Identify lean , JIT and agile techniques. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree BBA omes. pdf BBA ACCT /LearningOutcomes/BBADegreeAccountancyLearni ngOutcomes.pdf Course Methodology This course is delivered completely online; the content matches exactly that of the classroom course . All slides and other media wil l be available in eCourseware. Expectations Certain behaviors (such as fairness, respect, responsibility and more) are important Page 3 of 7 possess them. Please see the University of Memphis (see the Office of Student Conduct ) for additional expectations. Student's Expectations My personal goal is to help you gain knowledge and insight into the fundamental concepts of operations through the material presented, the homework assigned, the classroom and online participation and any personal experience I can share during this semester. Therefore, in my role as your instructor, there are certain things you can expect from me including a well - organized and engaging learning experience based on my professional experiences in multiple industries , response to emails within two (2) business days, and feedba ck on all work submitted within 7 - 10 calendar days. Student's Effort Past experience suggests that this can be a very difficult course for some. We experience in industrial, commercial or service industries; this makes absorption of the material difficult. However, we cover these subjects in a rather shallow manner since this is an overview course; specifically we study about 700 of the 900 page textbook underestimate the time you may need to read and absorb the information; you are expected to have read the scheduled chapters prior to that This is a required course for many stu dents and is often taken as part of a full - time student course load. The expected effort is based on a full time student spending 40 hours per week after combining all of your classes, homework, teamwork, reading and other research across all of your clas ses. Since this 3 credit - hour course is 20% to 25% of a full time student course load, I expect you to spend 8 to 10 hours per week working on this course whether you are a full time or part time student. Since approximately 3 hours of that time will be spent in class, the remaining 5 - 7 hours are allocated to the course requirements listed in this section. Therefore, most of your learning will occur outside of the classroom. Please put your investment of time and money to good use. The quantity of your time and effort spent on this class is not a factor in your grade (see the next section). Technical Requirements Students in this section must have access to a computer with broadband internet access. This access is available in Colle ge and University computer labs, libraries, and many workplaces (verify authorization/permission from your employer!). Please verify that you have access, as soon as possible the interaction of this site with workplace firewalls, for instance, is unpredi ctable. Page 4 of 7 Please verify browser compatibility online at For assistance with technical issues, contact the UofM Helpdesk at 901 - 678 - 8888, or go online to HelpDesk.Memphis.edu. Additionally, You should be comfortable doing simple manipulations of digital files (download, upload, play, copy, attach, etc.) You shou ld be comfortable with the use of MS Word or similar word processing tool for the writing assignment(s) You should be comfortable with the use of MS PowerPoint or similar presentation tool to be able to review the slides presented in class Grading and Ev aluation Criteria Graded Component Points Component Percent Mid - Term 1 100 20% Mid - Term 2 100 25 % Term Paper 100 15 % Homework varies 10% Final Exam 100 30 % 100% Final Course Grades Grade Percent Grade Percent Grade Percent Grade Percent A A - 93.0 90.0 B+ B B - 87.0 83.0 80.0 C+ C C - 77.0 73.0 70.0 D+ D F 67.0 60.0 59.9 and not my preconceptions of your level of effort. Translation: your grade depends on the items above, not on how much time you spend on the work itself. I will support the entire class receiving As if the entire class does A - level work; I will also support the entire class receiving Fs if the entire class performs below the pas sing level. So far, neither event has ever happened! You can determine your grade at any point in time. Notice that the final numeric score above is rounded to one decimal point and will be kept to that level of precision to determine the letter grade (e x: there will be no further rounding of a score of 89.9 to 90.0 to change from B+ to A - ). All grades, in detail, will be posted in eCourseware for you to see at any time . You may contact me with any questions; I will gladly discuss any legitimate concern about your grade. I will not leave any detailed information on your voice mail or give any such information to your spouse Page 5 of 7 or other family member without either (a) your explicit permission in writing to protect your privacy or (b) receiving specific per mission and direction of the department chair. Course Topics Module 1: Concepts, Strategy and Quality Chapters 1, 2, 9 and 10 Assessments: Homework and Exam Module 2: Forecasting and Planning Chapters 3, 5, 11 and 12 Assessments: Homework, Exam and Master Schedule Sheet Module 3: Inventory Management, JIT, Lean, Supply Chain Management, and Scheduling Chapters 13 - 1 5 Assessments: Homework, Exam, and Term Paper List of Formal Assessed Activities For a list of all formal assignments and examinations, please see the Schedule of Activities For a list of all scheduled classes, formal assignments and examinations please see the Final E xam Schedule The final exam for this class will be scheduled according to the academic calendar website . Course Policies E - MAIL All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all o fficial course correspondence at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., network failures, etc.) is responsibility. P . Attendance There are no instructor requirements for course attendance. However, as in any course, you will find that you will receive great value by investing your time with your fellow students by interacting online with the instructor and each other. Please be prepared for subject. Page 6 of 7 Adding/Dropping I f you have questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to th is page on the . Academic Integrity The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. Manual is considered cheating. Should your professor have evidence that using a rred, he/she may take steps as described on the Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Participation To be successful in this course as a student, you must stay active and involved throughout the entire semester. Students are expected participate in the interactive aspects of the course , typically the discussion forums . You should also regularly communicate with the instructor as part of y our overall learning experience and check into the course frequently for ann ouncements (us ually on the course home page). Online Behavior We need to behave and speak like the professionals that we want to become. That behavior may conflict with some of the presentations of professional behavior as seen on television, movies, cable programming or other media. I will, depending on the subject mater ial, inject controversial questions or positions that you must support or defend. Your differing views presented in a respectable and professional manner are encouraged. Therefore, we will not tolerate obscene, illegal, abusive or other non - professional disrespectful language, humor or behavior in this course . skills you need to be a successful student on line, check out the UMOnline website ( / ) where there is lot of helpful information to get you started with on line learning. Late Assignments Assignments submitted up to 48 hours late receive only 50% credit; assignments submitted more than 48 hours late receive a score of 0. Extra Credit No extra credit or substitute ass ignment o pportunities will be provided. Minimize the work you have to do by reading and completing the assigned work on time. Page 7 of 7 Reporting Illness or Absence Due dates and deadlines have been established for each graded assignment. In this course, deadlines are taken very seriously. Please do not wait until the last day to submit assignments or to take quizzes and exams. I f an emergency should arise, it is the matter. P accepted on a case - by - case basis. A deadline extension will be considered only if all of the following conditions are met: (1) Extreme emergency and (2) Instructor contacted prior to the due date when possible . Inclement Weather In the event that inclement weather requires the cancellation of classes at T he University of Memphis, local radio and television media will be immedi ately notified. Additionally, T he University of Memphis has establ ished an I nclement Weather Hotline at 678 - 0888 as well as TigerText , an emergency alert text messaging service to students, faculty and staff. This optional service is used in the event of an on - campus emergency, an unscheduled university closing, or a delay or cancellation of classes due to, for instance, inclement weather . Click Here for information on TigerText. However, since thi s is an online course, a campus closure should not impact the delivery of this course. If there are any changes that affect this course as a result of a campus closure, you will be notified. Syllabus Changes The instructor reserves the right to make changes as necessary to this syllabus. If changes are necessitated during the term of the course, the instructor will immediately notify students of such changes both by individual email communication and posting both notification and nature of change(s) on the course bulletin board. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance