#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/acct/2015FACCT7320001.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus Cost Accounting ACCT 7320 C o ntrollership Fall 2015 3 Credit Hours Last updated: 8 / 22 /2015 Instructor: Dr. Charles Bailey Phone : (901) 678 - 5614 E - mail: cbailey2@memphis.edu Office: #212 Fogelman College of Business and Economics Office Hours: Wednesday 4:00 5:30 and 6:00 7:00 p.m. or by appointment Course Overview Controllership function; evolution of management accounting; conceptual framework of management accounting compared and contrasted with financial accounting; functional tools used by controllers; emphasis on research, written and oral communication skills in the context of management accounting. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: PREREQUISITE: ACCT 3310 (Cost Accounting) or ACCT 7110. Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : Custom book Controllership, Fall 2015 Edition , ISBN: 9781308493428 from McGraw Hill, available only as an e - book. Other readings will be primarily from articles in professional journals, as well as cases from the Institute of Management Accountants and other free sources. Articles that I post on my website will be security - protected; you a to violate copyright law by allowing the general public access. The password to all of the pdf files is swordfishtrombones . 2 Location of Course Materials : Teaching materials will be available to you through my web site, . W atch your e - mail daily for important announcements and relevant materials. I welcome e - mail and normally ans wer promptly even during evenings or weekends. The eCourseware site ( ) will be used for several purposes, including discussion, submission of assignments, and grade posting. Course Obje ctives : You will study a variety of topics that are relevant for a controller. These include ethical issues, topics. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree MS ACCT : Course Methodology : This course is in a conventional classroom format. I vary the activities as much as possible, given ou r long evening sessions. Learning takes place in the following formats: Exams ( 4 0%) We will have two take - home exams , equally weighted. These are individual exams, and each student will have a personalized set of numbers in an Excel workbook. Quizzes (2 0%) We will have quizzes during the semester to test your understanding of the basic concepts that . Ther e will be at least four, and the best three will count as the quiz component of your grade. Team Presentation (20% of grade) I will assign you to three - person teams (or possibly two - person if necessary), to work on a class presentation lasting about 30 40 minutes. The topic will be something of current interest to controllers, perhaps based on a recent journal article. I have ideas for you, but let me know your interests; I will approve the topic and give you some guidance. The reports should include appropriate handouts for the class and me. Guidelines for presentations are as follows: Cite the sources of your information. Aim the presentation at your fellow students, not me. They will evaluate you on both style and substan ce, and their response will be the primary determinant of your grade. Avoid jargon and define unusual terms. 3 Recommended dress is casual but neat. Do not read your material to us! Avoid reading from notes. Send me the file (PowerPoint, etc.) to post on web site (in advance if you can). No candy given as rewards, please, except by permission, since it tends to become obligatory. Class Preparation and Participation (20%) This will be measured in two ways: Often I will ask you to prepare some notes to hand in at the beginning of class or post to before class for a formal grade. These should be a basis for you to participate in discussion of the case, readings, or research topic assigned that d ay. persons to earn full credit. In addition, however, I will appreciate your thoughtful contributions to class discussions and may apply that to adjust the raw score upwards. Applying the common rule of thumb of two hours outside class for each hour in, you should expect to spend about 5 6 hours/week of preparation time. The schedule calls for you to do some reading and preparation before clas s (except the first class). I will count on you to be prepared and enter into class discussions. Please be on time. Absences beyond three must be excused absences. Grading and Evaluation Criteria Grading of exams : You will receive detailed reports on your exam performance, based on pre - specified point values for the various content. Quiz grades will be straightforward based on multiple - choice or short - answer formats. Team Presentations : The other class members will provide feedback about your presentation, on forms they will complete immediately afterwards. I also will give you feedback and will assign the grade by taking the class comments and my own observations into account. 1 Class preparation and participation usually is based on full credit for an adequate submission. Summary of weights: Exams (2@ 20 ) 4 0% Quizzes (best 3) 2 0% Team presentation 20% Class preparation and participation 20% 1 Within each team, contributions are assumed to be approximately equal. I am happy to say that I have seen few problems with unequal participation. If contributions are not equal, the grades will be distributed between/among the group members as follows: (Number in group) x (Grade assigned to group) x (your percentage contribution) , with the limitation that no one s grade may be more than 5 percentage points above the group grade. Think carefully before deciding on unequal credit. 4 Thus, your course average will be .2(Exam 1) + .2(Exam 2) + .2(Quiz average) + .2(Team Presentation) + .2(Participation average). Final Course Grades Grading for the course will be on the traditional scale of 90 100 = A range, 80 89 = B range, etc. Within each letter grade category, I will assign + or - to those in the top or bottom three points (for example, 98 100= A+, 90 92 = A - ). Course Topics Preliminary Schedule Final Exam Schedule The final exam is on Wednesday , December 9 , 2015 , at approximately the normal class time, subject to room availability . Note that the official final exam schedule is at the academic calendar website . Course Policies E - MAIL: The best way to contact me is by email at cbailey2@memphis.edu . I normally respond quickly. Attendanc e: Given that we meet only once per week, a class constitutes 7% of the course . Thus, no more than three unexcused absences will be allowed in order to pass the course. Academic Integrity: The Fogelman College of Business (FCBE ) has established a standard set of guidelines for all students taking courses or pursuing a degree through the college. You should take the time to review the information on the Fogelman College Academic Integrity website and follow up with your course instructor if you have any questions. Why is it important in the Fogelman College? Honesty and integrity is an important aspect to being successful in business and industry and the Fogelman College of Business strives to produce graduates who provide the highest level of knowledge and competence in their field, but do so ethically and by not cutting corners. The greatest reward for being honest in your academic work is not b y avoiding getting You get that professional reward by investing the necessary effort to succeed based on individual performance. Not only is that the right thing to d o from an academic perspective, but it also helps you be even more prepared for professional success outside the classroom. 5 How Academic Integrity is reinforced and achieved in this course: o All work on exams and reports must be your own (or joint with team mates, as instructed). o Give credit to your sources for all materials (ideas as well as words) in reports. o Your report cannot be the same as submitted for another class, past or future. As defined at , plagiarism source is plagiarism. This is partic ularly relevant to the Excel Projects and Exams in this course. Several codes are imbedded in the Excel files for your Projects that will prove whether the file is the original file that you downloaded this semester or was copied. Do not copy another pers of yours. If it is copied, both the individual submitting the copied file, and the individual it came from, will be charged with plagiarism and will have two choices: Challenge the decision after seeing my digital trail of evidence; or Sign a statement admitting plagiarism and receive a maximum of course. The statement will be forwarded to the Office of Student Conduct. Late Assignments: Assignments normally will not be accepted after the deadline, but I will attempt to accommodate your needs in case of emergency, Extra Credit: None beyond the points described under Grading and Evaluation Criteria will be allowed. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Technical Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students The Fogelman College appropriately requires the following statement : Should your take steps as described on the campus Office of Student Conduct website 6 Preliminary Schedule ACCT 7320 Fall 2015 Date , 2015 Assignments to Prepare before Class (except 8/26). Book chapters are highlighted . The assignments initially shown below are tentative , to give you an idea of the course content . Changes will be made. Team Presentations 8/26 Introduction and Orientation. [I will allow teams to choose their presentation dates, subject to no more than two teams per class.] 9/2 Excel has more formulas and functions than you can shake a stick at. On a single sheet of paper, name two of your favorites (other than the basic ones lik e SUM and AVERAGE) and briefly explain their usefulness. Turn this in (computer - printed) at beginning of class for credit. Read "Cost Allocation: Departments, Joint Products, and By - Products" (pages 33 - 55). Read ( Q - Analytics - case.pdf). Formulate your thoughts in preparation for a group discussion. Please introduce yourself on eCourseware (click Discussions at top right of page). 9/9 Here is an article that explains how to set up an Excel application almost exactly like the one I showed you on 9/ 2 : SavageWilburn.pdf . It has three service departments and three production departments (vs. two and two that we used). Please modify the spreadsheet th at I gave you on 9/3, to work for the problem in this article, beginning on p. 150. Read the article itself to the extent you find helpful. From your custom Controllership book, work 7 - 26, 27, 31, 33, & 36. Note that I have not specified that you turn in a nything this week. There always could be a quiz (see syllabus). 9/16 Read "Appendix B: Regression Analysis" (pages 77 - 82). " Appendix A: Learning Curve Analysis" pages 72 - 75 Read my article in Management Accounting Quarterly (I will hand out a reprint in class). 9/23 Solve the attached problems on regression and learning curves, using Excel where appropriate. The solution Self - study problem is included. Please notice that the textbook presents only the average form of learning - curve model, while my spreadsheet example from 9/17 presented the unit model and the average model. Read Case [see syllabus for password!] and be prepared to discuss it in small groups. To prepare, answer the seven questions briefly on one side of a sheet of paper. Prepare two copies, one to hand in and one for your use during the discussion. (Unless you are conversant in Activity Based Costing, please review it. Here is a brief PowerPoint review of ABC and Activity - Based Management.) 9/30 Read "Implementing Strategy" (pages 1 - 17) and "Strategic Performance Measurement: Cost Centers, Profit Centers, and the Balanced Scorecard" (pages 88 - 112). Read Kaplan and Norton -- The Balanced Scorecard -- _1992.pdf. Read A Balanced Scorecard for State U's Facilities Management Division.pdf . Prepare typed (not handwritten) notes to prepare yourself to work with a group to formulate a solution. The typed notes will be collected after the group exercise for credit as a participation assignment. 7 10/7 Read Robert E. Fox, "The Constraint Theory." Complete the following TOC_template_for_Fox_article.xlsx as far as you can. 10/14 Continue with the "Fox" article workbook (all the additional scenarios as indicated by the tabbed sheets). See 10/8 Agenda fo r partial solution from class. Read UsingExcel_TOC_and_ABC_TO_SOLVE_PROD_MIX.pdf and set up a spreadsheet like Figure 7 (nothing to turn in). 10/21 Extend the "TOC and ABC" exercise of 10/14 by answering the additional four questions in this Excel folder. Read Employee, Vendor, and Other Frauds against the Organization" (pages 135 - 152) . 10/28 Read "Strategic Performance Measurement: Investment Center" (pages 213 - 241). 11/4 Problems: 19 - 26, 31, 35 [template spreadsheet to facilitate your job], 43, 53. 11/11 Prepare for Transfer - Pricing exercise. Read: The Management and Control of Quality (pp. 161 - 193) 11/18 Participation assignment to turn in related to the transfer pricing case. Problems from Ch. 17 ( The Management and Control of Quality ): 17 - 54, 17 - 56, 17 - 61 (using Excel, which has a formula for sample SD) Read "Management Compensation, Business Analysis, and Business Valuation" (pages 262 - 282). 11/25 Happy Thanksgiving! 12/2 Read the article Decision Trees to Manage Capital Budgeting Risk Other TBD 12/9 Final Exam