#http://blogs.memphis.edu/libraries/category/trial-resources/
University of Memphis Libraries | Category | Trial Resources Main menu Skip to content Home University of Memphis Libraries News and Events Search for: Category Archives: Trial Resources Oct 21 2014 More Ways to Connect to Your Libraries&#8217; Resources! Posted by jschnbel We hope you had a pleasant Fall Break! As the semester progresses, we continue to offer additional ways to connect students and faculty to our resources. The University Libraries has arranged for a trial of BrowZine, a new app for mobile devices,  until November 21, 2014 . BrowZine allows users to access our paid electronic periodical content through their mobile devices in a display that emulates physical bookshelves. Sample screen from BrowZine app Here’s how to try BrowZine: From your iPad, iPhone (please note that BrowZine works best on iPad 2 or later), or Android device, download BrowZine from the App Store, Google Play, or Kindle/Amazon store and install it. When you open BrowZine for the first time, you will see a list of schools.  Select the  University of Memphis , then enter your user ID and password (same as for other University Libraries&#8217; resources). Choose the subject areas and start browsing! Don’t forget to let us know what you think of BrowZine by leaving a comment on the blog or e-mailing Cody Behles at cbehles@memphis.edu. For help finding subject-specific resources, you can explore our collection of customized online research guides. Themes of recent guides include  Network Science , the  Sociology of Gender , and  Tiger Blue Goes Green: Sustainability . The next time you’re in McWherter Library, be sure to browse our two New Additions bookcases located on either side of the Circulation desk. Acquired titles are also posted on our  Pinterest  page and often highlighted on  Twitter  and  Facebook . Research question? Keep calm and ask a librarian! Whether you are working at home or  on-campus , the University Libraries&#8217; staff is happy to help with your research. Visit our  Ask a Librarian  page for a list of FAQs and multiple ways to contact us including text, chat, and e-mail; there’s even a form you can submit if you’re having  technical difficulties  with the Libraries’ online resources. For writing help, please make an appointment with the  Center for Writing and Communication  located near the reference desk on the first floor of McWherter Library. Happy researching! Posted in Events , Homepage , News , Research and Instructional Services , Trial Resources | Leave a comment | Feb 07 2014 Euromonitor Passport&#8211;TRIAL Posted by mathphobic Passport is a tool which allows users the ability to identify a consumer market, see all of the players in that market, and understand all relevant consumer dynamics of that market. It covers consumer products and services in 80 countries and has over 100 million exportable statistics and 18,000 regularly updated qualitative reports on industries, companies, countries, and consumers. 85% of Fortune 500 companies use data and analysis from Passport for strategic marketing decisions.  The trial access runs through February 28, 2014 . Euromonitor Passport Posted in Trial Resources | Leave a comment | Search for: Recent Posts New to the Libraries Maymester at the Libraries Extended Library Hours During Exam Week The University Libraries Hosts Faculty Scholarship Week, April 13 &#8211; 17 The University Libraries Celebrates Women&#8217;s History Month 2015 Archives September 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 Categories Alerts Branch Libraries Events Exhibition Homepage News Research and Instructional Services Special Collections Trial Resources Uncategorized Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS blogs.memphis.edu &copy; University of Memphis Libraries Skip to toolbar University of Memphis University Home Memphis Blogs Blogging Help Log In Search