#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/acct/2015FACCT7412001.pdf
1 Course Syllabus ACCT 7412 - Legal and Accounting Aspects of Entrepreneurship Fall Semester, 2015 3.0 Credit Hours Instructor: John M Malloy, PhD, JD, CPA Certified Small Business Counselor Phone1: 901.678.5326 Phone2: 901.678.4569 E - mail: jmalloy@memphis.edu Office: FCBE #209 Office Hours: 9:15am - 11:15am T; 4:00 - 5:00pmTH and by appointment. Course Overview : 1. Welcome to Legal and Accounting Aspects of Entrepreneurship , a field of growing excitement and importance. This course is designed to accomplish the following objectives: (1) Prepare students to understand the basic legal principles pertaining to the establishment of a firm (2) to be able to select the optimum form of organization (3) to be able to understand the impact of va rious legal statutes on the operation of a business (4) to understand Federal securities regulation (5) to understand the basic tax impacts on the operation of a business (6) to be able to use accounting data in order to make business decisions (7) to unde rstand how to evaluate risks (8) to appreciate the value of adequate internal controls (9) to effectively utilize an adequate computer system (10) to understand which legal and accounting tools, strategies and methods will and will not be effective, in the different circumstances in which the entrepreneur finds themselves (11) to be able to prepare a quality business plan.: Forming a firm with optimum legal safeguards. Selecting the legal form of operation which best achieves firm objectives. Operating a successful business which does not incur any unnecessary legal liabilities. When applicable, operating according to Federal securities regulations. Using various tax strategies in order to maximize bottom line after tax income. Using accounting data in ord er to improve operating efficiency. Identify major potential risk and steps in order to mitigate such risks. 2 Establish adequate internal controls in order to help prevent theft and operating inefficiencies. Using electronic means to increase operating effi ciencies. Hands - on experience will be given through participation in numerous class activities such as cases, projects, business plan, and student presentations. Required Texts: Growing An Entrepreneurial Business by Edward D. Hess, 2011, Stanford University Press. Gleim CPA Review Regulation 2015 Edition , ISBN:978 - 1 - 58194 - 554 - 6 Course Objectives: Students will be able to answer the following questions for their business at the end of this course: How do I start a firm? Which legal form of organization is best for my firm? Steps I can take in order to minimize potential legal problems. How can I use tax laws in order to minimize the amount of taxes owed? Growing the business with the use of accounting data in order to help operate a firm in an efficient and effective manner. Identify major risks which could have a major adverse impact on the business and taking steps in order to minimize such risks. How to establishing a good internal control system which can promote growth and prevent major unexpected adverse setbacks. How to use compute systems to improve operating efficiencies. Hands - on experience will be given through participation in numerous class activities such as cases, projects, business plan, and student presentations. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall lea rning objectives for the MBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. In general, you should assist the in structor in creating a positive, supportive environment for learning by staying engaged in the course and actively participating in discussions. Student's Expectations of the Professor: In my role as your instructor, there are certain things you can expe ct from me including: well - organized and engaging learning experience, response to emails within two (2) business days, and feedback on all work submitted within 7 - 10 calendar days. 3 Grading and Evaluation Criteria Grade: Grading: Analysis of case [best 10 scores] (only cases turned in during the day the case is presented will be graded) 2 0 % Average of highest three exams will be graded [no make - up examinations will be given] 60 % Business plan 10 % Presentation of case 5% Franchise presentation 5% Policies: Average of the highest three examination scores, No make - up examinations are given. There will be four examinations. No extra points are given for additional work . If you are not in class when the test was handed back, you must come to room 209 in order to receive the test. If you do not turn in the quiz or test when the professor states the time is up, the test will not be graded. FINAL GRADE : Due to several l aws and court cases pertaining to the privacy of student information, grade information will only be available through the official university web site. Only students registered for this class are allowed in the classroom. [state law] ELECTRONIC DEVICES: Electronic devices, such as cell phones, are to be turned off in class . If such devices go off in class , you will receive a zero on your highest daily quiz grade. Final Course Grade: COURSE GRADE: The course grade will be assigned on a + and sc ale. The course grade will be assigned on the following basis (grades are not rounded): A+=97 - 100; A=93 - 96; A - =90 - 92; B+=87 - 89; B=83 - 86; B - =80 - 82: C+==77 - 79; C=73 - 76; C - =70 - 72; D+=67 - 69; D=60 - 66; F=Below 60 . Final Exam Schedule The final exam for this class will be scheduled according to the website . 4 Course Policies Adding / Dropping: If you have questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to this page on the . Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic I ntegrity . Extra Credit: There is no extra credit offered in this course. Your final grade will be computed based on your work on the formal/assessed activities previously described in this syllabus. Reporting Illness or Absence: A deadline extension will be considered only if all of the following conditions are met: (1) Extreme emergency and (2) Instructor contacted prior to the due date . Inclement Weather: In the event that inclement weather requires the cancellation of classe s at The University of Memphis, local radio and television media will be immediately notified. Additionally, The University of Memphis has established an Inclement Weather Hotline at 678 - 0888 as well as TigerText , an emergency alert text messaging service to students, faculty and staff. This optional service is used in the event of an on - campus emergency, an unscheduled university closing, or a delay or cancellation of classes due to, for instanc e, inclement weather. Click Here for information on TigerText. Syllabus Changes: The instructor reserves the right to make changes as necessary to this syllabus. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about: Students with Disabilities 5 Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assist ance ASSIGNMENTS: DATE BOOK Assignment Aug. 25 INTRODUCTION 27 Gleim Form of Entity - 259 - 271 Sept. 1 Selected franchise 3 Selected franchise 8 Selected franchise 10 Selected franchise 15 Gleim Noncorporate business entities - 502 - 516 17 Hess Chapter 1 & Eyebobs [19] 22 Gleim Agency - 569 - 580 24 Hess Chapter 2 & Octane Fitness [46] Chapter 9 & Edens & Avant 29 Gleim Employment, other laws - 581 - 594 Oct. 1 Examination One 6 Selection of Business Plan Company 8 Hess Chapter 3 & Room & Board Chapter 8 & Enchanting Travels 13 Fall Break 15 Fall Break 20 Hess Chapter 4 & Secure Works plus Chapter 5 & Defender Direct 22 Gleim Corporate Taxable Income - 259 - 271 27 Hess Chapter6 &Global Medical Chapter7 &Leaders Bank 29 Examination Two Nov. 3 Financial Statements See Gleim 130 & SBA web site 5 Hess Fellers Bakery 232 Sammy Snacks - 328 10 First Draft of Business Plan 12 Review 17 Gleim Debtor - credito r - 745 19 E xamination Three 24 Review of Business plans 26 Thanksgiving Dec. 1 Final Business Plan is Due 10 EXAMINATION FOUR - COMPREHENSIVE