#http://www.memphis.edu/aleks/take-exam/
Take the Exam - ALEKS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Assessment and Learning in Knowledge Spaces About Take Exam Interpret Your Results Learning Module Home ALEKS Take the Exam Take the ALEKS Assessment General Instructions for Taking the Assessment Use a pencil and paper to work out the answers to each question. Do NOT use textbooks or on-line resources. At the beginning of the ALEKS assessment, you will go through a brief tutorial that will introduce you to the ALEKS system and interface. You will be shown how to enter different types of answers, how to use the ALEKS calculator, and how to graph something by hand. Do your best to answer each question correctly. Enter your answers carefully. Once you submit your response to a question, you cannot return to that question. Select "I don't know" only if you have no idea how to work a problem. If you select "I don't know" repeatedly, it will lower your score on the ALEKS Assessment. If your computer locks up or freezes during the middle of the assessment, try hitting the "Refresh" button on your browser. If that does not work, close your browser and log back in. The work you have already submitted will be saved, and the assessment will pick up at the point you left off. When you complete the assessment, you will see a screen with a pie chart and the % score (% Mastery) that you earned on the ALEKS Assessment. You may want to print this screen for your own records. For your own benefit (to ensure proper course placement) you must solve all problems on the ALEKS Assessment without assistance. This means that you cannot use any books or online resources, and you cannot get assistance from any other person. As a student at the University of Memphis, you are a full member of the University community. As a member of the University community, you are subject to the responsibilities of that community. When you violate a University regulation, you are open to disciplinary action of the University. A student at the University of Memphis has the responsibility to be honest in all academic and personal relationships. Academic integrity is imperative to the progression to real knowledge and to a student's capacity to apply that knowledge to life's problems. Personal integrity is what permits a student to realize goals. You will need: Pencil and paper Your UofM user name and password Approximately 90 minutes to complete the assessment (this time will vary for each student) To take the ALEKS assessment from home log into the myMemphis portal. Please enter your UofM user name and your password. The username corresponds to the letters appearing before '@memphis.edu' in your University of Memphis email address. After logging into the myMemphis portal, click on the "Student" tab to locate the ALEKS channel. Install the ALEKS Plug-In and Check System Setup Visit to install the ALEKS Plug-In. Restart your browser and/or your computer to complete the installation. (Be certain to quit your browser completely, and restart before proceeding.) Visit to verify that you have the setup complete and ready to go. Return to the myMemphis portal site to login and take the ALEKS Assessment. To take the ALEKS assessment from a University of Memphis TigerLan Lab Computer Click on the Start Menu. Click on the "All Programs" section. Click on the "UMware" folder. Click on the sub directory entitled "Aleks Math Placement Assessment." Click on the link entitled "Aleks Testing." Clicking on the "Aleks Testing" link will launch Internet Explorer with the ALEKS placement plugin pre-installed. The student will be directed immediately to the myMemphis web portal where they can initiate the ALEKS placement testing as previously dictated. Technical Support How do I get technical support for ALEKS? Disability Related Services Who to contact for accomodations. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .