#http://www.memphis.edu/acad1100/greatexpectations.php
The University's "Great Expectations" of You - ACAD1100 - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. ACAD1100 ACAD Courses Student Resources Faculty Resources Meet the Faculty Meet the Staff Home ACAD1100 The University's "Great Expectations" of You Great expectations of you. Every new college student needs to be prepared for what the University will expect from him or her. Introducing yourself into the University setting requires that you abide by certain codes of conduct, both academically and morally. By accepting admittance and enrolling, you have voluntarily committed yourself to be a part of the University of Memphis community. With this commitment comes responsibility and a realization that you are willingly applying yourself to the pursuit of elevated educational and social goals. These include actively searching for higher knowledge, exhibiting behavior that demonstrates respect towards other students, faculty, and staff of the University, and generally following the University's procedural guidelines. What are the major sources of documented information that new students receive from the University of Memphis? All students can access the online University Catalog, which contains degree program planning and a list of all courses and areas of study, a Student Handbook, including the regulations for academic and social conduct on campus, and a Schedule of Classes for the current semester. It is the student's responsibility to read each of these documents and understand which courses are required for his/her major, how courses in a particular curriculum can be scheduled during a given semester, and what the code of conduct is for all courses at this University. Because curriculum requirements can change, the student is responsible for being knowledgeable about current information to best complete a program. Regularly meeting with one's advisor is the best way to avoid problems in this area. What are specific academic expectations at the University of Memphis? Success in college relies on the student's ability to utilize resources and to be responsible for his/her own progress. Allowing study time of two to three hours for each hour spent in class is recommended and cumulative GPAs that drop below a "C" will be cause for academic suspension from the University once the student has earned more than 68 hours. Financial Aid and Scholarships are also subject to review and revocation depending on one's academic standing. Your ACAD section and the Educational Support Program are instituted to help prevent academic hardship. What is academic status? The academic progress of students at the University of Memphis is monitored at the conclusion of each term enrolled to determine their academic status. Students' overall combined grade point average AND term grade point average are considered in determining status. There are four progressive levels of academic status: (1) Good Standing (2) Academic Warning (3) Academic Probation (4) Academic Suspension Your academic status will be listed on your grade report in myMemphis at the end of each semester. More information about academic levels can be found in the University Catalog. What are the basic educational requirements for completing a degree program? Although one's particular major will determine the majority of courses that should be taken, exposure to a variety of subjects is part of the General Education requirement. Such courses ensure that the student becomes a well-educated member of society with knowledge extending beyond the expertise nurtured in one area of study. This General Education core curriculum was developed at the University of Memphis in 1989 to enrich the undergraduate experience. In addition, students entering this University who demonstrate, through testing, that they are not prepared for college-level work in math, English, or reading must begin their studies with courses offered by the Transitional Academic Studies Department. What type of degree programs are available to students at the University of Memphis? The University of Memphis offers undergraduates a choice of 54 majors and 73 concentrations. Degrees available include Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Fine Arts, Bachelor of Music, Bachelor of Business Administration, Bachelor or Liberal Studies, Bachelor of Professional Studies, and a variety of Bachelor of Science programs. While most majors require completion of at least 120 semester hours. Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .