#http://www.memphis.edu/management/programs/
Degree Programs - MGMT - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Management Welcome Programs Courses Faculty PhD Students Research FCBE Programs Welcome Programs Courses Faculty PhD Students Research Contact Us Home MGMT Programs Degree Programs Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) with concentration in Management The BBA degree in Management allows students to specialize in one of three emphasis areas: Leadership and Organizations, Human Resource Management, and General Management. Each of these areas of emphasis allows students to focus their studies with a curriculum geared toward leadership and management success in a varied array of organizations and occupations. Click here for more information Master of Business Administration (MBA) with concentration in Management At the master’s level, we provide courses in the MBA , Executive MBA , and International MBA programs, which support career advancement in management for students with technical and non-technical backgrounds and interests. Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Business Administration with concentration in Management The PhD Program in Management develops skilled researchers who can be successful in research-oriented academic institutions. We have trained doctoral students who were placed as assistant professors in institutions such as Akron, Alabama, Alaska, Brock, Fresno State, Illinois State, Mississippi State, New Mexico, North Texas, Ole Miss, Oregon State, Rutgers-Camden, and UT-Arlington. Click here for more information Entrepreneurship Minor (UNDERGRADUATE) HR MANAGEMENT CONCENTRATION (UNDERGRADUATE) Additional Department Offerings (MILE Program, SHRM &amp; IBSO Student Chapters) 1. MILE Program Qualifying students can participate in the MILE (Memphis Institute for Leadership Education) Leadership Mentoring Program and 2nd MILE Program , which are designed to provide extra leadership development opportunities. The MILE Program is sponsored by the Department of Management and is available to all majors in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. The MILE Leadership Mentoring Program matches top students, primarily juniors and seniors, with local area business and organization leaders who serve as mentors for one academic year. The 2nd MILE Program allows students who have graduated from the MILE Program and who have another year before graduation to give back to the college and community by engaging in community service project work and serving as mentors to local area high school or middle school students. For more information about MILE, please contact Dr. Bob Taylor( rrtaylor@memphis.edu ) or browse . You can also view a video highlight of the MILE Program here . 2. SHRM Student Chapter The Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) is a professional organization dedicated to the professional advancement of human resource (HR) management. The University of Memphis Student Chapter of SHRM provides innovative programming for students to learn more about the HR profession and network with local HR professionals via professional chapter meetings, seminars, job shadowing, and internships. Through regular meetings on campus, SHRM student members learn about the importance of career development in the HR field and, upon graduation, leave the University of Memphis with valuable networking contacts and industry knowledge. Prepare for your HR future, join today! Contact Dr. Carol Danehower ( vdanehwr@memphis.edu ) or Dr. Kathy Tuberville ( ktbrvlle@memphis.edu ) or click here for information on how to join SHRM. 3. International Business Student Organization (IBSO) Our mission is to enhance the ability of FCBE students to perform and conduct business on a global scale with a superior understanding of the many diverse international market and business practices. For the current semester's meeting agenda, click here . For a membership application form, click here . For more information, please contact: Amelia Cline Chief Executive Officer International Business Student Organization (IBSO) Email: Ibso@memphis.edu For information about the importance of internships from the University of Memphis, please view this video Programs Welcome Programs Courses Faculty PhD Students Research Contact Us MGMT News &amp; Events Learn about current events happening in our department! Research Colloquia Keep up with the latest Management academic research in our upcoming seminars. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .