#http://www.memphis.edu/music/Academics/windstudies.php
Wind Studies - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Academics Degrees Offered Applied Music Brass Class Piano Collaborative Piano Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Vocal Arts Woodwinds Composition, Theory and Musicology Conducting and Large Ensembles Jazz Studies Music Education Area Information Orff Summer Institute Graduate Studies in Music Education Music Industry Music Library Home Music Academics Wind Studies The Wind Studies Area offers a Master of Music and a Doctor of Musical Arts in wind band and orchestral conducting. The program is designed to be small and highly selective. Enrollment is intentionally limited and auditions are competitive. Our objective is to develop technically capable, expressive conductors, prepared to succeed and be leaders in the professional and academic communities. Assistantships and Scholarships Graduate Assistantships are available for Master's and Doctoral students up to $8000. Graduate assistantships have teaching responsibilities and/or other responsibilities that are determined by the needs of the School. For Wind Conductors, duties are divided among the studio and include: Teaching assistant for undergraduate instrumental conducting classes.Teaching assistant for Survey of Wind Literature courseAssist with all aspects of the Mighty Sound of the SouthWind Ensemble/Symphonic Band librarianPublic relations coordinatorProgram and program note publication coordinatorInstrument inventory and check-out supervisorHonor Band and workshop assistant coordinatorRecording daily ensemble rehearsalsRehearsal and performance set-up and strike Conducting Assignments Wind Conducting majors work with the ensemble conductors and choose repertoire to rehearse and perform with the Wind Ensemble, Symphonic Band, Concert Band, or the Memphis Area Youth Wind Ensemble. Each student generally conducts on at least two concerts per semester Audition Information All potential students must apply and be accepted by both the Music School and by the University. Acceptance to the School of Music is contingent upon being accepted by the University. Seek enrollment in the University by contacting the University Graduate Office of Admissions at 901.678.2911. Applicants for the wind conducting degrees must submit a videotape of rehearsal and performance along with the required admission forms as soon as possible. Applicants are required to submit a list of compositions studied for conducting during the past year. A small group of applicants will be invited for an in-person audition, including an interview. The committee will be looking for a demonstration of highly effective musical sensitivity communicated through an advanced gestural vocabulary. The ability of the applicant to communicate effectively with an ensemble during a rehearsal is also taken into consideration. Those invited will also take a written exam consisting of score identification and aural skills. In addition to the audition, it is necessary for all graduate students to take a proficiency exam in music history and music theory. These tests are given on the first two days of registration every semester. Contact the Graduate Music Office for specific dates and times. Admission and Assistantship applications and other information about acceptance into the School of Music may be obtained by contacting: Joyce Gordon Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music The University of Memphis 129 Music Building Memphis, TN 38152-3160 Call 901.678.3532 or e-mail: mjgordon@memphis.edu Return the Graduate school application to the University Graduate School Admissions office. Return the application for Graduate Assistantships in Music to the Music School Graduate Studies Office. Requirements for admission Requirements for admission into the graduate wind conducting program include:A Bachelor's Degree in Music from an accredited institutionA mastery of advanced conducting techniques gained through conducting experience beyond the undergraduate level.Submission of transcripts of all previous college workFamiliarity with a substantial percentage of quality wind music is an important factor in the selection process. Applicants interested in the Master's Degree should be familiar with and able to conduct approximately 25% of the repertoire in both lists. Applicants interested in the Doctor of Musical Arts Degree should be familiar with and able to conduct at least 40% of the repertoire in both lists. For more information on Wind Studies, contact Albert Nguyen, Director of Bands at tnguyen6@memphis.edu . Academics Degrees Offered Applied Music Brass Class Piano Collaborative Piano Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Vocal Arts Woodwinds Composition, Theory and Musicology Conducting and Large Ensembles Jazz Studies Music Education Area Information Orff Summer Institute Graduate Studies in Music Education Music Industry Music Library Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .