#http://www.memphis.edu/libraries/collectionmgmt/staff.php
Staff - Libraries - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Libraries About Services Resources Instruction Special Collections Technology Collection Management Department Liaisons Staff Serials Review - 2015 Textbook Selections Handbook Addendum Home Libraries Collection Management Staff Steve Knowlton, Interim Head of Collection Management Collection Development Librarian sknwlton@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-8234 Office: McWherter Library: RM 303-D James Rodgers, Acquisitions Librarian jrrdgrs1@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-4400 Office: McWherter Library: RM 303-C [VACANT] Electronic Resources Librarian Phone: (901) 678-8226 Office: McWherter Library: RM 303-A Gail Barton, Interlibrary Loan Librarian gpbarton@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-8223 Office: McWherter Library: RM 212-B Collection Management Staff Regina Cade, Library Assistant II ill_lending@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-8222 Office: McWherter Library: RM 212 Responsibilities: Interlibrary Loan Lending, all formats. Provides public services online, via email, and in the Interlibrary Loan Office. Stacey Durham, Library Assistant II I ill_borrowing@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-2262 Office: McWherter Library: RM 212 Responsibilities : Interlibrary Loan Borrowing and Lending [VACANT], Library Assistant III Phone: (901) 678-8217 Office: McWherter Library: RM 303 Responsibilities: Processes gifts, places firm orders, processes withdrawals, and assists Collection Development Librarian with statistical analysis and communications. Provides research and information services to the public. Ann Hudson, Library Assistant III eahudson@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-8205 Office: McWherter Library: RM 303 Responsibilities: Provides research and information services to the public. Assist the Electronic Resources Librarian with management and identification of electronic resources. Assists with receiving and with gift books processing. Denise Keeney, Library Assistant III dkeeney@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-3455 Office: McWherter Library: RM 303 Responsibilities: Assists with the order process by locating material and creating purchase orders for complex material; performs bibliographic searching and verification using OCLC. Communicates with vendors. Firm Order and Standing Order receiving. Library bookkeeping. [VACANT], Library Assistant II Phone: (901) 678-2956 Office: McWherter Library: RM 303 Responsibilities: Provides research and information services to the public. Receives and checks in new materials; performs bibliographic searching and verification using OCLC. Resolves problems of access to electronic resources and corresponds with vendors. Collects usage statistics. Supervises student workers. [VACANT], Library Assistant III Phone: (901) 678-2262 Office: McWherter Library: RM 212 Responsibilities: Interlibrary Loan Borrowing and administrative questions. Provides public services online, via e-mail, and in the Interlibrary Loan Office. [VACANT] , Library Assistant II Phone: (901) 678-4389 Office: McWherter Library: RM 303 Responsibilities: Provides research and information services to the public. Prepares and process orders for the non-print collections. Check-in of journals, newspapers, and microfilm. Pull surplus journals, newspapers, and microfilm, process microfilm invoices, shelve, and sort mail. Paula Phillips, Library Assistant II ill_borrowing@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-8220 Office: McWherter Library: RM 212 Responsibilities: Interlibrary Loan Borrowing. Provides public services online, via email, and in the Interlibrary Loan Office. Helen Rodgers, Library Assistant II hjdddrdg@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-4553 Office: McWherter Library: RM 303 Responsibilities: Check-in of journals, newspapers, and microfilm. Pull surplus journals, newspapers, and microfilm, process microfilm invoices, shelve, and sort mail. Assists with receiving new materials and with gift books processing; performs bibliographic searching and verification using OCLC. Assists with the order process by locating material and creating purchase orders for complex material. Communicates with vendors. Firm Order and Standing Order receiving. Please send questions/comments/suggestions to Steve Knowlton , Interim Head of Collection Management Collection Management Department Liaisons Staff Serials Review - 2015 Textbook Selections Handbook Addendum My Library Account Review your library account for due dates and more. Interlibrary Loan Request books, articles, and other research materials from other libraries. Reserve space Group study and presentation spaces available in the library. Ask-a-Librarian Got a question? Got a problem? Ask Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .