#http://www.memphis.edu/cas/advising/referrals.php
Referrals - CAS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. College of Arts &amp; Sciences About Departments Research Scholarships Students Resources News Advising Links Advising Center Staff &amp; Contact Guide for Advisors Newsletter for Advisors September 2014 February 2014 Departments Finding Your Advisor First Year Students Graduation/Degree Certification Major and Minor Information Major Four Year Plans Meeting with your Advisor Pre-Professional Advising Upper Division Humanities Upper Division Social Science Withdrawal Home CAS Advising Referrals Referrals Academic Counseling Center – ACC – Wilder Tower 212, 678-2062 – advising for undecided students and those with an ACT reading subscore of 18 or below, an ACT English subscore of 17 or below, and for Biology majors who have not yet completed CHEM 1110/1111 Admissions – Wilder Tower 101 – (1) to begin the process for TCR (Transfer Credit Request) forms for students planning to take transfer courses elsewhere, (2) to be readmitted: , and (3) to correct an incorrectly loaded course on the transcript of a transfer student ALEKS Placement – the math assessment, accessed online through the My Memphis portal on the Student Tab, details regarding course placement and more: Center for Athletic Academic Services – Wilder Tower 600 and 700, 678-2714 - provides academic services for student-athletes, Counseling and Psychological Testing – Wilder Tower 214, 678-2068 - Disability Resources Services – Brister 110, 678-2880 – provides resources for students with disabilities, Educational Support Program (ESP) - Academic Enhancement Center (AEC) - 207 Mitchell Hall- (901) 678-5226 Business Learning Center (BLC) -256 Fogelman Building- (901) 678-3912 English Learning Center (ELC) -225 Patterson Hall- (901) 678-2059 Math Learning Center -143 Dunn Hall- (901) 678-2704 Science Learning Center (SLC) -207 Mitchell Hall- (901) 678-2704 Richardson Towers Learning Center (RTLC) Carpenter Complex Learning Center (CCLC) Financial Aid Office – Wilder 103, 678-4825 - to check on specific questions regarding amounts of aid or hours needed; students should check myMemphis for the deadlines to pay or if their aid has paid; or refer to charts sent in a separate e-mail General Education –The courses that can be used for General Education requirements are listed in the catalog online. For transfer work that might be used for General Education, advisors can use the Transfer Equivalency tables to see if a course is already approved: If the course has been approved as General Education but is not pulling into UMdegree, or if you are want to ask if a course can be used for General Education, enter a petition in UMdegree so that it can be considered. Housing – 678-1641, Parking – 120 Zach Curlin Parking Garage, 678-2212, bf.memphis.edu/parking/ Permits – Refer students to individual departments for permits, but most departments do not issue permits to overload class seats. Pre-Professional Advising – Students meet with the advisor of their major to select courses, but should also meet with Jessica Kelso, the Pre-Health and Pre-Law advisor, to ensure that they are on track for their chosen field, 678-5454 for appointments: Pre-Health: Pre-Law: Registrar – Wilder Tower 003, 678-2810, information for students and faculty/staff regarding registration and related processes: Scholarships – Wilder Tower 104, 678-3213, much information about scholarships, Hope, service hours, Undecided Transfer Students – transfer students who have not selected a major are advised by Trellis Morgan and may make an appointment using the Appointments Plus calendar – Advising Links Advising Center Staff &amp; Contact Guide for Advisors Newsletter for Advisors September 2014 February 2014 Departments Finding Your Advisor First Year Students Graduation/Degree Certification Major and Minor Information Major Four Year Plans Meeting with your Advisor Pre-Professional Advising Upper Division Humanities Upper Division Social Science Withdrawal Apply now for an Undergraduate Degree in the College of Arts &amp; Sciences Pursue your dream of having a degree, broaden your career choices and gain the confidence you need to succeed! The College offers Master's and Doctoral Degrees Are you interested in a new profession? Would you like to enhance the knowledge and experience you already possess? Community Engagement We are committed to teaching and serving the Memphis and Mid-South community through our programs and events. Contact Us Dean's Office Contacts, Advising, Department Chairs... Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .