#http://www.memphis.edu/moch/events/fall2015-brown-bag-series.php
Fall 2015 Brown Bag Series - MOCH - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities About Events Fellowships External Funding Links MOCH Events Lecture Series Humanities Brown Bag Series Home MOCH Events Fall 2015 Brown Bag Series Fall 2015 Brown Bag Series The Humanities Brown Bag Series aims to acquaint faculty with research being conducted across the humanities and to spark cross-disciplinary collaborations and conversations. Sponsored by the Marcus Orr Center for the Humanities, these informal, lunchtime meetings are open to all university faculty. Light refreshments will be provided and attendees are invited to bring their own lunches. Social Networks in the Enlightenment: The Case of Parisian Salons Melanie Conroy, Foreign Languages and Literatures Wednesday, September 9 12:30-2:00 PM Fountain View Room (350), University Center Parisian salons were a core institution of the Enlightenment, influencing philosophy, politics, the arts, and the sciences for almost two centuries. Salons were female-led; they were peopled by aristocrats and philosophers. Scholars have, thus, debated whether salons were politically radical or conservative, feminist or aristocratic. Drawing on the largest digital collection of Enlightenment-era letters, as well as data from European academies, and biographies of the salon-holders, this talk argues that salons were neither radical nor conservative, neither feminist nor philosophical, but necessarily mixed environments; further, their ability to innovate came from this mixed nature. "Machinery to Link Us Up": Britain's Black Liberation Front and Transnational Black Feminism Chris Johnson, History Thursday, September 17, 2015 12:30-2:00 PM Shelby Room (342), University Center This talk explores the politics and transatlantic connections of the Black Liberation Front (BLF), an understudied intellectual, activist, and social welfare organization of Afro-Asian migrants based in London. Part of a constellation of black radical organizations in Britain during the 1970s, the Black Liberation Front was connected to black revolutionaries across city, regional, and national borders. A node of the Revolutionary People's Communication Network, the BLF worked in tandem with the International Bureau of the Black Panther Party (US), headquartered in Algiers, to advance an intersectional program against sexism, racism, militarism, and imperialism. The Role of Black Popular Literature in a Post-Racial America Terrence Tucker, English Wednesday, October 7, 2015 12:30-2:00 PM Shelby Room (342), University Center Black popular literature has exploded over the last few decades with the emergence of more black owned publishing companies and urban imprints of (white) major publishing companies. Even as the U.S. claims to be in an era of post-racial colorblindness, much of this popular literature ignores the expansive, in-depth critiques of white supremacy's impact on black life in favor of soapy, middle-class black romance novels and spectacular tales of violent street life. This work considers the question of whether, for a community for whom literacy is paramount, African American literary criticism should embrace a literature that gets people reading. Doing Good for Whom?: Conservation Voluntourism in Honduras' Marine Protected Areas Keri Brondo, Anthropology Thursday, October 15, 2015 12:30-2:00 PM Shelby Room (342), University Center Volunteer tourism, a growing form of humanitarian travel, is especially popular in protected areas in the global south. My focus in this presentation will be on teasing out the costs and benefits of this form of tourism, for the travelers themselves as well as for the local culture and environment. I will draw on ethnographic research in Honduran marine protected areas to consider the disconnect between rising numbers of volunteers set out to "do good" by "protecting" natural resources and local cultural practices that require access to them. Slavery and the Slave Trade in the Medieval Mediterranean Hannah Barker, History, Rhodes College Thursday, November 5, 2015 12:30-2:00 PM Shelby Room (342), University Center What was slavery like before the Atlantic slave trade? The dominant culture of slavery in the medieval Mediterranean differed significantly from later American practices. Medieval Mediterranean slavery was based on an ideology of religious instead of racial difference; the majority of slaves were women used for domestic and sexual service; and Christian and Muslim slave owners actively exchanged slaves and ideas about slavery. This talk will draw on both Italian and Egyptian sources from the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries to discuss the medieval Mediterranean culture of slavery. Challenging Epistemic Agent Individualism Deborah Tollefsen, Philosophy Wednesday, November 11, 2015 12:30-2:00 PM Shelby Room (342), University Center Who Knows? Most people would answer this question by identifying certain individuals ("She knows..." "Dr. X knows..."). Many people believe only individuals can be ascribed knowledge, which is a form of individualism that I have labeled epistemic agent individualism. Epistemic agent individualism seems to clash, however, with our everyday practice of ascribing beliefs, knowledge, intentions, and other attitudes to groups in order to explain, predict, and evaluate their actions. We deem the tobacco industry morally bankrupt, for instance, because it knew the harmful effects of smoking. This talk will explore how groups can be knowers, and the implications of group knowledge. Please also check out our Fall 2015 Lecture Series ! MOCH Events Lecture Series Humanities Brown Bag Series Donate to MOCH Support the programs and works of the Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities. Interdisciplinary Studies Serving as the home for academic programs which transcend the boundaries of the traditional academic departments. Contact MOCH Main contact information and location Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/24/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .