#http://www.memphis.edu/cas/advising/documents/major-report-instructions.pdf
On myMemphis, click on the Employee tab, and look for the Banner ePrint channel. Double click on Banner Student Repository. Choose the XLS (Excel) version of the Major Report and click on the icon. You can save it or just open it. Save the document, giving it whatever title is appropriate for your purposes. You may You may want to get rid of some of the columns that you will not need or that are redun dant. You can either delete or hide them. This will make the spreadsheet much easier to view. For example, you will probably never have any use for the following: dept majorDesc Degc Program cntMjr Others that you may or may not want to see are: cls Eth n Vet gender Cum EHRS If you are only working with undergraduate students, and do not want to view information concerning graduate students, then - Z icon. On th You can then delete or hide the GR and LW (graduate and law) students, leaving only undergraduates. Then you will want to sort by MAJOR to get the majors and second majors for your department . Majors are listed alphabetically in this report (in the MAJOR column). Please note that if a student has more than one major, they will appear only once, under the major that comes first alphabetically. For example, a student majoring in Anthropology and Foreign Languages will appear only once, under Anthropology. Therefore, you will have to look for (either manually or using a search function) for any double majors that you have that are listed under another major. You can use the same report to iden tify minors in your program. Please note that the report is generated occasionally (usually once a month, except at the beginning of the academic year when it is generated more frequently) and is not to have more accurate information. Do not use the report during the summer for general purposes, since only students registered for summer classes will appear in the report. If you do not have access, complete the Request for Banner Access form: - docs/forms/access.pdf -