#http://www.memphis.edu/reslife/pdf/gsfhprices15.pdf
GRADUATE AND STUDENT FAMILY HOUSING APPLICATION INFORMATION AND PRICES Effective August 1, 201 5 Application Procedures: Submit an application for Graduate and Student Family Housing to Residence Life and Dining Services by logging into MyMemphis on the University of Memphis website at and then going to the Student tab. There is a $45.00 non -refundable application fee when you submit your application. You should choose GSFH for the application. You must have applied and been accepted to the University of Memphis in order to apply for Graduate and Student Family Housing. Assignments are made according to date of application. Contracts: Academic Year contracts are for the full acade mic year (fall and spring semesters.) Residents are responsible for rent for both semesters unless they are graduating or not returning to the University for the spring semester as a student. New applicants accepting assignments to a Graduate and Student Family Housing designated space, canceling prior to check in will be responsible for a $450 cancellation penalty. Students who cancel the spring portion of their academic year contract, after residing in Graduate and Student Family Housing for any portio n of the fall semester, are subject to a contract breakage penalty of $450. This fee does not apply to students who are not enrolling for the spring or who are graduating who; notify the Residence Life and Dining Services office in writing, and remove the ir items within 24 hours of their last exam. Rent: Rent is for a semester, and with the exception of financial aid, is payable at the beginning of each semester. Installment payments are available through the Bursar™s Office. Phase 1 1 Bedroom Townhou se $3200 .00 for each Fall & Spring Semester $1280.00 Summer Session 2 Bedroom Townhouse or Flat $3650 .00 for each Fall & Spring Semester $1460.00 Summer Session Phase 2 2 Bedroom Handicapped Accessible $4250.00 for each Fall & Spring Semester $1700 .00 Summer Session