#http://libanswers.memphis.edu/faq/26031
Q. Where can I find a scholarly article written by a nurse? - LibAnswers Skip to Main Content University Libraries Home Page LibAnswers Warning: Your browser has javascript disabled. Without javascript some functions will not work, including question submission via the form. Q. Where can I find a scholarly article written by a nurse? Ask Another Question Search Browse: All Topics 33 Access to Resources 2 Alumni 7 Articles 13 Campus Resources 12 Catalog 10 Circulation 6 Citations 2 Collections 7 Computers 5 Copying 28 Databases 2 Dissertations & Theses 2 Ebooks 2 Educational Support Program 2 Faculty 2 Genealogy 18 Government Resources 1 Group Study Rooms 5 Guests 6 Hours and Locations 5 Instructional Services 6 Interlibrary loan 6 Journals 3 Laptops 11 Library Services & Policies 2 Microform 4 Newspapers 1 Nursing 1 Obituaries 1 Periodicals 1 Preservations & Special Collections 9 Printing 2 RefWorks 7 Research Guides 22 Research Help 5 Reserve Room 3 RODP 1 Scanners 5 Statistics 4 Tests & Testing 2 Textbooks 2 Tutoring 6 UUID & Password 13 Video Tutorials 21 Websites 4 Writing Toggle action bar FAQ Actions Print Tweet Share on Facebook Was this helpful? 0 0 Topics Access to Resources Alumni Articles Campus Resources Catalog Circulation Citations Collections Computers Copying Databases Dissertations & Theses Ebooks Educational Support Program Faculty Genealogy Government Resources Group Study Rooms Guests Hours and Locations Instructional Services Interlibrary loan Journals Laptops Library Services & Policies Microform Newspapers Nursing Obituaries Periodicals Preservations & Special Collections Printing RefWorks Research Guides Research Help Reserve Room RODP Scanners Statistics Tests & Testing Textbooks Tutoring UUID & Password Video Tutorials Websites Writing View All Topics Answered By: Cindi Nichols Last Updated: Sep 06, 2015 Views: 92 Using the database CINAHL Complete , there are four ways to limit your search to nurse authors: 1) The First Author is a Nurse limiter* 2) Any Author is a Nurse limiter* 3) The Journal Subset limiter 4) Author Affiliation AF limiter** * The written by a nurse limiter applies to records from November 2009 and forward. Credentials include RN, BSN, MSN, or appropriate degree. For non-U.S. journals, the credentials include licensed nurse or appropriate nursing degree in the particular country. 1) First Author is a Nurse limiter is available in the Limit Your Results menu beneath the Advanced Search screen in CINAHL Complete. To use, simply tick the First Author is a Nurse limiter box, enter your search terms in the search box, and click the Search button. In scientific publishing, the first author is normally the person claiming most responsibility for the research. So an article in which the first named author is a nurse has a higher probability of reflecting nursing research interests. 2) The Any Author is a Nurse limiter is also located in the Limit Your Results menu (left coumn, below the &quot;Human&quot; subjects limiter). To use, simply tick the Any Author is a Nurse limiter box, enter your search terms in the search box, and click the Search button. 3) The Journal Subset limiter is located immediately below the Any Author is a Nurse limiter (the left column) in the Limit your results box. To use, scroll through the list of journal subsets. Find and select the Nursing subset. Enter your search terms and click the Search button. Journal Subset restricts your search to the nursing databases (filtering out the journal literature of other allied health disciplines). The assumption informing this strategy is that nursing authors will publish at a higher frequency in scholarly nursing journals than the authors of any other health science discipline. While the logic is sound. The assumption is not fool proof. You will need to verify the nursing credentials of the authors by checking the author data in the article itself. This is a broader strategy than limiting by nurse authors (above). 4) Author Affiliation AF** is an index field option available in the drop down menus of the search box. To search by Author Affiliation , 1) scroll down the options in the menu bar; 2) Locate and select AF Author Affiliation , 3) type nurs* into the adjacent search box, 4) enter the keywords of your search topic in another search box 5) click the Search button. Author Affiliation searches the institutional affiliation and address field within CINAHL. Many nurse scholars teach at or are associated with departments of nursing in institutions of higher learning. And the word &quot;nursing&quot; is frequently included in the department heading. In most cases, the affiliated author will be a nurse. **But again, this is not a fool-proof assumption. You will still need to verify the nursing credentials of the authors with reference to the article itself. Links & Files Nursing Research Guide Chat Other Ways to Contact Us Comments (0) Add a public comment to this FAQ Entry University Libraries - The University of Memphis - Memphis, TN 38152 - 901-678-2205 Powered by Springshare ; All rights reserved. Login to LibApps