#http://www.memphis.edu/mediaroom/releases/oct15/artexhibits.php
Art Exhibits - Media Room - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UofM Media Room Publications Resources This Week UofM Magazine News Releases Contact News Releases Latest News Releases October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 News Releases Archive 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Home Media Room News Releases Art Exhibits Two UofM Exhibitions Celebrate Contemporary Folk Art October 7, 2015 - The exhibitions "The True Gospel Preached Here: Photographs by Bruce West" and "Memphis Collects Contemporary Folk Art" at the Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art at the University of Memphis are on display now until Nov. 6. "The True Gospel Preached Here" features a selection of photographs by Bruce West documenting the spiritual and creative work of the Rev. H. D. Dennis (1916-2012), a self-proclaimed preacher, artist and architect, and his wife Margaret (1916-2009), in Vicksburg, Miss. West's vibrant photographs explore the fantastic world of the couple who devoted more than 20 years of their lives to converting Margaret's grocery store into an eclectic nondenominational church. Guided by visions from God, the Rev. H.D. and Margaret erected several painted towers, constructed their own Ark of the Covenant and developed new religious iconography. Rev. Dennis used his ever-evolving church as a roadside attraction to draw in visitors to hear his fiery sermons and orations. A sign at the site's entrance proclaimed, "The True Gospel Preached Here." Spanning nearly 20 years and multiple site visits, West's photographs are both intimate and bold, revealing the couple's love of God and one another, a sense of commitment to one's work and the transformation of person and place. West is a professor in the Department of Art and Design at Missouri State University. His photographs have appeared in numerous exhibitions throughout the United States and Europe and are included in museum collections such as the Ogden Museum of Southern Art, the Library of Congress, the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art and the Victoria and Albert Museum. Showcasing standout works from several local private collections, "Memphis Collects Contemporary Folk Art" features the paintings, drawings and sculptures of more than 25 self-taught artists, ranging from Rev. Howard Finster, perhaps the South's most famous contemporary folk artist, to the little-known Memphian Floyd "Pussum" Glover. Highlighted are the unconventional materials used by these artists and the common interests they share in religion, social issues and popular culture. The exhibition also considers the usage of the terms "contemporary folk art" and "outsider art." Contemporary folk art refers to work produced by unschooled artists of the 20th and 21st centuries. Outsider art most appropriately describes the highly individualistic creations of self-taught artists with atypical mental states or disabilities. Central to both is their making at the hands of artists who have taught themselves. "Memphis Collects Contemporary Folk Art" is curated by Dr. Carol Crown, professor emerita in art history at the UofM. Crown is author of numerous publications including Coming Home! Self-Taught Artists, The Bible, and the American South and The New Encyclopedia of Southern Culture Volume 23: Folk Art. "The True Gospel Preached Here: Photographs by Bruce West" and "Memphis Collects Contemporary Folk Art" coincide with the Folk Art Society of America's annual conference, which will be held in Memphis from Nov. 5-8. A free symposium featuring leading scholars of folk art and music will be held Saturday, Nov. 7, from 9 a.m. to noon in 310 Art and Communication Building at the UofM. The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art are located in rooms 230 and 240 of the Art and Communication Building, 3715 Central Ave., and provide vastly expanded professional display space for the Art Department. The galleries serve as a valuable educational experience for our students. Additionally, it gives the College of Communication and Fine Arts expanded capacity to bring contemporary working artists to campus to enrich the curriculum and broaden our students' understanding of today's art world within the national and international context. For more information, contact Patricia Lee Daigle, pldaigle@memphis.edu or 901.678.3052. RELATED EVENTS AND PROGRAMMING Conversation with the Collectors Thursday, Oct. 22, 5-7 pm The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art Join collectors John Jerit, Rollin Riggs and Craig Wiener for a casual conversation moderated by Dr. Carol Crown in the galleries as they discuss their interest in folk art and their passion for collecting. Bruce West Gallery Talk and Book Signing Friday, Nov. 6, 5-8 pm The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art Photographer Bruce West will speak about his work and will be signing copies of his book The True Gospel Preached Here (2014, University Press of Mississippi) afterwards. Books will be available for purchase. This event will also serve as a closing reception for both exhibitions. Contact: Kimberly Rogers 901.678.4164 krogers@memphis.edu News Releases Latest News Releases October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 News Releases Archive 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Music Performance Calendar Find out where the music is Art Museum Learn about the latest exhibits Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/2/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .