#http://umdrive.memphis.edu/capierce/public/MGMT%20Dept%20Strategic%20Plan%202014.pdf
Strategic Plan 2015 - 2020 Department of Management Fogelman College of Business and Economics University of Memphis Fall 201 4 The Department of Management (MGMT) developed a strategic plan that outlin es its guidelines for 201 5 - 20 20 . The plan was developed by MGMT faculty with external review by the MGMT advisory board. To develop our strategic plan, we conducted an analysis of our department's strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats. Mission The MGMT Department 's mission is fourfold : (1) prepare undergraduate and masters' students for careers in globally competitive and technology - driven market s ; (2) prepare doctoral students for faculty positions at research - oriented academic institutions ; (3) contribute to the intellectual development of the management discipline through rigorous and relevant research ; and (4) contribute to the development of organizations and communities through consulting, employee training , and executive development. Vision We will become a leading De partment of Management among metropolitan research universities in the U .S. In so doing, we will ( 1 ) deliver cutting - edge and relevant management knowledge to undergraduate and graduate students ; ( 2 ) recruit doctoral students and faculty who have outstanding potential to develop into lead ing management scholars ; ( 3 ) publish rigorous and relevant research in premier scholarly journals that will advance the management discipline ; and (4) utilize our scholarly expertise in management to contribute to the development of local, national, and international organizations and communities . Values The MGMT Department embraces the following values: Rigorous and r elevant m anagement s cholarship Teaching excellence Integrity /Ethics Transparent d ecision m aking Open c ommunication with s takeholders Professionalism Critical Success Factors The MGMT Department's critical success factors are as follow s : Exhibit excellence in research via publishing ar ticles in premier management journals and presenting papers and symposia at premier management conferences Maintain a productive and supportive research culture via our Research Colloquia series Recruit faculty who have high research aspirations Develop and maintai n a high - quality departmental Advisory Board Recruit high ly q uali fied students to our degree and non - degree programs Offer high - quality, relevant instruction in on - campus and on - line formats Strengths The major strengths for the MGMT Department are as follows: 1. Highly visible focus on L eadership via the Memphis Institute for Leadership Education (MILE) Program 2. PhD Program -- doctoral students' research productivity and quality of academic placements 3. Highly productive research scholars 4. Presence on editorial boards of premier management journals and in academic leadership roles 5. Strong teaching in on - campus a nd on - line courses 6. Home for university - wide undergraduate minor in Entrepreneurship 7. Home to two Founding Members of the University of Memphis ' Center for Organizational Research and Effectiveness (UMCORE) (Drs. Allen & Pierce) 8. Coordinate the Mid - South Management Research Consortium (MMRC) 9. Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) student chapter 10. International Business Student Organization (IB SO) Weaknesses The major weaknesses for the MGMT Department are as follows: 1. Lack of a n identity/niche -- split between HR , O B, ST, and ENT 2. Under staffed e.g., many full - time faculty teach in BBA, MBA, and PhD Programs ; too many adjuncts 3. PhD graduate assistantship (GA) base funding is low and declining 4. Pending faculty retirements Opportunities The major opportunities for the MGMT Department are as follows: 1. Demand for leadership , e ntrepreneurship , and technology education for women and ethnic minorities 2. D emand for global classroom 3. Demand for Executive PhD students in management 4. Tight labor market for research - aspiring ass istant prof essors of management 5. Changing business education model Threats The major threats for the MGMT Department are as follows: 1. Shrinking external resources/funding 2. Increasing demand for publications in top - tier management journals Goals Based on our SWOT analysis, the MGMT Department's goals are as follows : 1. Increase the number of papers and symposia presented at premier management conferences 2. Publish at least two articles annual ly in highly prestigious "A+" management journal s 3. Increase the number of faculty serving on editorial boards of premier management journals 4. Use the University of Memphis' Center for Organizational Research an d Effectiveness (UMCORE) to facilitate research and attract external funding 5. Increase MILE Program 's focus on women and ethnic minority education 6. Recruit high - quality PhD students; leverage sources for supplemental GA funding 7. Strengthen identity/niche in Leadership 8. Enhance quality of on - line MGMT courses 9. L everage MILE Program for data collection opportunities to increase faculty - student publications 10. Develop Fogelman Business Solutions (FBS) -- student - run, non - profit consulting business 11. Develop an Entrepreneurship Collaborative with the Crews Ventures Lab 12. H ost Mid - South Management Research Consortium (MMRC) meeting biennially 13. Develop faculty succession plan for pending retirements Goal Progress Indicators 1. Fall 2015: number of papers and symposia presented at premier management conferences is greater than the average number presented in previous 3 years 2. Fall 2015: at least two articles published annually in "A+" management journals 3. Fall 201 5 : at least one more faculty member on an editorial board of an " A+ " management journal 4. Fall 201 5 : at least one grant proposal submitted for external funding via UMCORE 5. Fall 201 5 : offer MILE Program events to enhance leadership and entrepreneurial ed ucation of women and ethnic minorities 6. Fall 201 5 : use on - line funds to supplement base PhD GA funding 7. Fall 201 5 : MILE Program gain s national reco gnition 8. Fall 201 5 : on - line MGMT course s receive very high student ratings 9. Fall 201 5 : publish at least one article annually in an "A+" or "A" management journal based on data collected from the MILE Program 10. Fall 2015: Fogelman Business Solutions in early stages of development 11. Fall 2015: Entrepreneurship Collaborative with Crews Ventures Lab in early stages of development 12. Fall 2015: Host Mid - South Management Research Consortium 's (MMRC) Spring 2017 meeting 13. Fall 2015: begin faculty succession planning Dr. Charles A. (Chuck) Pierce Great Oaks Foundation Professor of HR Management Chair, Department of Management Fogelman College of Business and Economics University of Memphis Email: capierce@memphis.edu Web: