#http://www.memphis.edu/vpbf/standcom/trascom.php
Traffic and Parking - Vice President for Business &amp; Finance - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Vice President for Business &amp; Finance Staff Directory Meet the Vice President Standing Committees Records Management Standing Committees Facilities and Services Fee/Refund Appeals Public Records Traffic and Parking Home Vice President for Business &amp; Finance Standing Committees Traffic and Parking Traffic and Parking Standing Committee The Traffic and Parking Authority reports to the Vice President for Business &amp; Finance. The Authority is responsible for establishing, maintaining, and reviewing traffic and parking policies, guidelines, and procedures. Charge The Vice President for Business &amp; Finance will annually appoint members to a Traffic and Parking Standing Committee having advisory responsibility for a comprehensive traffic and parking program for The University of Memphis. The committee will review and recommend to the Vice President for Business and Finance a program responsive to traffic patterns, parking needs, security, and access priorities; it will be responsible for maintaining approved traffic and parking policies, guidelines, and procedures. Staff assistance will be provided to the Committee by the Parking Office, which will publish, distribute and enforce traffic and parking regulations. All formal recommendations and decisions of the Traffic and Parking Standing Committee should be submitted to the Vice President for Business and Finance for review, discussion with the President, and action. MEETINGS: An organizational meeting of the Traffic and Parking Standing Committee will be called as soon as the membership is confirmed to familiarize members with the committee purpose and to determine the schedule of future meetings. Thereafter, meetings will be held as necessary to fulfill the committee's function(s). COMPOSITION: The committee consists of voting members drawn from the faculty, staff and student populations. A chairperson will be appointed by the Vice President for Business &amp; Finance and will not have voting rights, except in the event of ties. The Chief of Police, Assistant Chief of Police and Director of Police Operations, the Director of Parking and Transportation Services, the Director of Facilities Management, the Director of Disability Resources for Students, and the Associate Dean of Students – Office of Student Conduct, will serve as non-voting, ex-officio members. The Director of Parking and Transportation Services will also serve as secretary. Faculty and Staff Traffic Appeals Sub-Committee: The Chair of the Traffic and Parking Standing Committee will appoint five members of the Traffic and Parking Standing Committee, representative of faculty and staff, to the Faculty and Staff Traffic Appeals Sub-Committee. Ex-officio, non-voting members of the Traffic and Parking Committee are eligible to serve as members of the Faculty and Staff Traffic Appeals Sub-Committee. A chair will also be appointed by the Chair of the Traffic and Parking Committee. The sub-committee will hear appeals of faculty and staff citations received for alleged violations of traffic and parking regulations. (The Student Government Association will hear student citation appeals ). Faculty or staff members wishing to appeal a citation have 72 hours after receipt (holidays and weekends excepted) to do so. The Appeals form is available on-line or available in the Parking Office, 120 Zach Curlin Garage. Completed appeal forms should be submitted to the Parking Office. The Faculty and Staff Traffic Appeals Sub-Committee will meet once a month and appellants will be notified of date, time and place. Appellants may appear before the committee with any evidence they wish to present, or if desired, the appeal can be made in absentia so long as supporting evidence/documentation is made available to the committee. If an appeal is upheld, the citation will be voided and the fine removed. If the appeal is denied, the appellant will be notified of the decision of the Traffic Appeals Sub-Committee. Generally, decisions of the Faculty and Staff Traffic Appeals Sub-Committee are final. Any requests for further review should be submitted to the Vice President for Business and Finance who will decide whether to entertain subsequent appeals. REPORTS TO: Vice President for Business and Finance. ANNUAL REPORT: Due on or before July 15 and shall contain at least the following information: activities, issues, and proposed solutions discussed by the committee; an outline of unresolved issues which might be considered, discussed and acted on during the coming year; a report on contributions of committee members; and any recommendations for membership on the following year's committee. Membership FY 2014 - 2015 Appointee Notes Fiscal Year Appointed Rank/Title Department E-Mail Dr. Stephanie Ivey Chair (appointed FY 2014-15) 2011-12 Associate Professor Civil Engineering Bruce Harber ex-officio, non-voting 2001-02 Assistant VP Admin and Chief Police Services Susan Te Paske ex-officio, non-voting 2003-04 Director Disability Resources for Students Derek Myers ex-officio, non-voting 2005-06 Assistant Chief &amp; Director Police Services Edwina Washington 2005-06 Assistant Vice President Business Services Angela Floyd Secretary, ex-officio, non-voting 2006-07 Director Parking &amp; Transportation Services Tony Poteet Assistant Vice President Campus Planning &amp; Design Joel Mooney 2014-15 Director, Operations Physical Plant Amanda Virag 2015-16 Area Coordinator Residence Life Dr. Brian Waldron 2011-12 Associate Professor Civil Engineering Brian Wilcox ex-officio, non-voting 2013-14 Director Facility Management Project Services Eric Sabin 2013-14 Assistant Director Athletics TBA Oct., 2015 Staff Senate Representative TBA Oct., 2015 Faculty Senate Representative TBA Oct., 2015 Faculty Senate Representative Maddie Griffith 2014-15 Social Media Coordinator Marketing &amp; Communications Ryan Van Dusen ex-officio, non-voting Associate Dean of Students Judicial Affairs Student Members Notes Fiscal Year Appointed Rank/Title Department E-Mail Ricky Kirby 2013-14 Junior Marketing Joseph Miller 2014-15 Junior Electrical Engineering Annual Reports 2014-2015 | 2013-2014 | 2012-2013 | 2011-2012 Standing Committees Facilities and Services Fee/Refund Appeals Public Records Traffic and Parking Process Improvement The Vice President of Business &amp; Finance is an executive sponsor of the University's Process Improvement efforts. Crisis Management Crisis Management is responsible for developing and implementing programs in emergency preparedness. Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .