#http://www.memphis.edu/egypt/about/sitemap.php
Site Map - Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology About Location Teaching Staff Research Exhibition Events Resources About IEAA Mission Statement History of the IEAA Ordering IEAA Publications Friends of the IEAA Site Map Home Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology About Site Map This Page is Under Construction (but progress is being made) To ensure that your computer displays the latest update, click on the 'Refresh' or 'Reload' button at the top of your screen. Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology Mission About the Institute History Personnel Publications Contact Information Egyptian Collection and Exhibit About the Collection History of the Collection Selection of Objects from the Collection Research Access Visit the Egyptian Gallery at University of Memphis Art Museum Tour Information (groups of 10 or more only please) Web site for the Art Museum of the University of Memphis Visitor Information Location and Hours for IEAA Offices and Egyptian Gallery Art Museum of the University of Memphis (AMUM) University of Memphis Campus Map University of Memphis Parking Map Graduate Programs in Egyptology "So, You Think You Want to Be an Egyptologist?" Middle and High School students Undergraduate students Faculty for the programs Egyptology and related courses offered at UofM M.A. and Ph.D. programs in History Department M.A. program in Art History (Art Department) Prospective Students Current Students Requirements of the Program General description Detailed listing Sample Two-Year Schedule M.A. thesis and Comp Exam Graduating Alumni Egyptology Web Sites Additional Program Information - Applying for Federal Work-Study funding Academic Common Market (for out-of-state applicants) International Students Readmission to the program Links to - Graduate School at the University of Memphis Admission to the Graduate School and the Program in Art History Financial Aid resources at the University of Memphis Calendars, Deadlines and select Forms Projects Great Hypostyle Hall at Karnak The Tomb of Harwa - Italian Archaeological Mission to Luxor Excavating at the Tomb of Harwa - Student's Report 2003-04 Events Current IEAA events at the University of Memphis (events change each semester) Friends of the Institute Make Your Tax-Deductible Donation to the IEAA Projects to support Online giving Contact the IEAA Personnel Faculty and Staff List Timeline of Ancient Egypt Chronological Chart Based on the work of the late Dr. William J. Murnane Tour of Egypt Color tour of Egypt Interactive map of Egypt Abu Simbel Abydos Aswan Cairo, Egyptian Museum Dendara Edfu Giza Kom Ombo Luxor Luxor Town Luxor Temple Karnak Temple Saqqara Step Pyramid Complex of King Djoser Memphite Tomb of Horemheb Thebes (West Bank at Luxor) Colossi of Memnon Temple of Queen Hatshepsut Valley of the Kings Temple of Ramesses III (Medinet Habu) Village of Deir el-Medinah General Egypt-Related Web Sites Internet Resources Kids and Families Archaeology and Excavations Artifacts and Museums Organizations Egyptology Programs / Schools Other Useful Web Sites Egyptology Web Sites General Resources and Links Online publications, Bibliography, Books, etc. Archaeology and Excavations Artifacts and Museums Organizations Egyptology Programs / Schools About IEAA Mission Statement History of the IEAA Ordering IEAA Publications Friends of the IEAA Site Map Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .