#http://architecture.memphis.edu/2010-naab-response.pdf
1 NAAB R ESPONSE TO UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS 20 10 ANNUAL REPORT Date Report Received: November 3 0, 20 10 Current Term of Accreditation : Continuation of Candidacy Year of Next Visit: 201 2 Focused Evaluation: N Section One: Checklist of required elements Part I Statistical Report Not Included Part II Narrative Report Not Included Section Two : Assessment of Narrative Report DEFICIENCIES 7. Human Resource Development The program is advised to continue reporting on efforts to address this deficiency , especially on whether faculty members are able to take advantage of other professional development programs besides sabbaticals (e.g., funding for attending or participating in conferences). 8. Physical Resources The program should continue reporting on developments related to occupying additional space in Jones Hall. The changes made or planned by the program to address concerns about the shop equipment are clearly underway; please continue to report on progress. 13.2 Critical Thinking Skills The 2010 v isiting team noted that there was evidence in student work that this SPC was being addressed; however, the team suggested that analysis of some reading materials could be more rigorous and feedback from instructors was lacking. Please continue to report on efforts to address this deficiency. 13.4 Research Skills The program is advised to continue reporting on efforts to address this deficiency. 13.9 Non - Western Traditions In the 2009 Conditions for Accreditation, this SPC is now covered in Realm A.9, Histo rical Traditions and Global Culture. The program is advised to continue reporting on efforts to address this deficiency and to include syllabi in the 2011 narrative that demonstrate increased attention to non -Western traditions. 13.10 National and Regional Traditions In the 2009 Conditions for Accreditation, this SPC is now covered in Realm A.9, Historical Traditions and Global Culture. The program is advised to continue reporting on efforts to address this deficiency and to include syllabi in the 2011 narr ative that demonstrate increased attention to national traditions. 13.12 Human Behavior The program is advised to continue reporting on efforts to address this deficiency and to include in the 2011 narrative copies of assignments in ARCH 7012 and 7013 rela ted to this SPC and a brief description of student work submitted for those assignments. 13.13 Human Diversity The program is advised to continue reporting on efforts to address this deficiency and to include in the 2011 narrative copies of assignments in ARCH 7012 and 7013 related to this SPC and a brief description of student work submitted for those assignments . 13.14 Accessibility The program is advised to continue reporting on efforts to address this deficiency and t o include in the 2011 narrative docu mentation of student work that responds to this SPC. 13.16 Program Preparation The program is advised to continue reporting on efforts to address this deficiency and to include in the 2011 narrative copies of assignments in ARCH 7712 related to this SPC. 2 13.22 Building Service Systems The program is advised to continue reporting on efforts to address this deficiency and to include in the 2011 narrative a brief description of student work submitted for assignments related to this SPC. 13. 25 Construction Co st Control In the 2009 Conditions, this SPC is no w covered in Realm B.7, Financial Considerations. Please continue to report on the results of efforts to address this deficiency. CAUSES OF CONCERN Review of incoming student undergraduate transcripts The p rogram is advised to continue reporting on the results of efforts to address this concern. Duplication of courses at undergraduate and graduate levels The program is advised to continue reporting on the results of efforts to address this concern. Course ma trix simplification The program is advised to continue reporting on the results of efforts to address this concern. Observer for future visitation This concern has been addressed, and there is no need to continue reporting on it. Continuing funding for dev elopment programs The program is advised to continue reporting on the results of efforts to address this concern. Hazmat study and code study The program is advised to continue reporting on the results of efforts to address this concern. Program visibility on campus The program is advised to continue reporting on the results of efforts to address this concern. Storage space The program is advised to continue reporting on the results of efforts to address this concern. Lack of shop equipment The program is advised to continue reporting on the results of efforts to address this concern. CHANGES TO THE ACCREDITED PROGRAM