#http://www.memphis.edu/libraries/ill/
Interlibrary LoanPage Title - Libraries - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Libraries About Services Resources Instruction Special Collections Technology Interlibrary Loan Staff Location Home Libraries Interlibrary Loan Click here to login to ILLiad FAQ How do I use ILL at the University of Memphis? What is Interlibrary Loan? Who is eligible? What materials cannot be requested through ILL? How much does it cost? How long does it take? How will ILL notify me? Where do I pick up my materials? How do I get access to library materials if I'm at the Lambuth campus or enrolled in Extended Programs/eCampus classes? How long can I keep ILL loans? Can I renew ILL materials? What if I lose or damage materials? I’m a faculty member. How do I arrange for delivery to my department? How do I use ILL at the University of Memphis? Create your at ILL account at “ ILLiad Logon .” ILLiad is the name of the ILL management software used at the UofM. Enter your University of Memphis Username and Password. You may submit requests for materials using the Request Forms on your account. You may also submit requests through many of the University of Memphis databases . When your request is available, we will notify you through your University of Memphis e-mail account. Most article requests are filled electronically, and the notification e-mail will give you the directions for downloading the file. Loans may be picked up at the Check-Out Desk on the first floor of McWherter Library with your UofM ID. Faculty may choose to have their ILL Loans and circulating McWherter Library materials delivered to the administrative offices of their departments. See I’m a Faculty Member. How do I Arrange for Delivery ? (top of page) What is Interlibrary Loan? Who is eligible? ILL is a service that provides you with access to library materials not available in the University of Memphis Libraries and not available in full-text through licensed University of Memphis databases. ILL is a service available to current University of Memphis students, faculty, and staff. The Memphis Public Library &amp; Information Center may be able to help you if you do not qualify for University of Memphis ILL Services. For other libraries wishing to submit an ILL request to UofM Libraries, we accept requests through OCLC, RapidILL, mail, e-mail, or fax. Please see contact details at the top right side of this page. (top of page) What materials cannot be requested through ILL? The following types of requests will be canceled: Required reading for courses in which you are enrolled Archival material (Requires special arrangements. Please contact the ILL Librarian.) Electronic and print format material available at UofM Libraries or through licensed UofM databases Items on Reserve or in Special Collections at UofM Libraries We welcome requests for all other material, including regularly-circulating UofM books that are checked out or missing, but please note that it can be difficult to borrow the following: Genealogical materials Entire issues of journals Reference books Audiovisual materials Rare/fragile materials Materials held only in libraries outside of the United States (top of page) How much does it cost? The Library pays the fees and charges associated with borrowing material from other libraries on your behalf. We do not pass the costs on to you. The average cost of a single ILL transaction is $30. Please request judiciously. FINES: You are responsible for overdue fines, which accrue at the rate of $1 a day. You are also responsible for costs associated with damages or loss. If the material is lost, you will have to pay for it at a rate to be determined by the lending library, which includes replacement charges plus a processing fee. Fines, fees, and replacement charges are not refundable. Overdue notices are a courtesy. You will not be exempt from overdue fines/replacement charges for the reason of not receiving an overdue notice. (top of page) How long does it take? Usually, for books, DVDs, and other items that cannot be scanned, it takes 3 -10 working days from the time your request is processed to the time the material is waiting at the Check Out Desk for pickup. Requests for journal articles, book chapters, and other material that can be scanned or photocopied can vary greatly depending on the nature of the article, ranging from one day to several weeks. This length of time is dependent upon many factors: which library has the material you have requested, how far away they are, whether the material is currently checked out to another borrower, and whether the Interlibrary Loan Department has an abnormally large number of requests to fill. (top of page) How will ILL notify me? You will be notified that your material has arrived via your University of Memphis e-mail account. If you do not know your e-mail address, please click here to go to the University Information Systems Help Desk's page on UUIDs. (top of page) Where do I pick up my materials? Your materials will be waiting for you at the McWherter Library Check-Out Desk. You may pick up your materials any time that the Check Out Desk is open and staffed. In order to pick them up, you MUST bring your University of Memphis ID. If you are picking up an item for another person in addition to your needing your University of Memphis ID, that individual must have previously completed a Proxy Borrower Application and had you approved as a "proxy borrower." If you do not have an ID card, or would like more information about ID cards, please visit the Identification Card Information page in the Business and Finance section of the UofM Web site. If you are an Extended Programs student, you may not have been given an ID, or it may be difficult for you to get to the main UofM campus. In that case, arrangements can be made to have the materials delivered to you. Please be sure to note on your request forms if you are an Extended Programs student so that we can accommodate your needs. (top of page) How do I get access to library materials if I'm at the Lambuth campus or enrolled in Extended Programs/eCampus classes? University of Memphis students, faculty, and staff at the Lambuth campus and in fully remote programs who live outside a 30 mile radius from the Memphis campus may use Interlibrary Loan to request library materials. Circulating materials, such as books, will be delivered to the Lambuth Campus Library or mailed to the user's address. Journal articles, book chapters, and similar materials will be delivered electronically. Remote programs include fully online degree programs and fully off-campus programs listed on the University of Memphis Extended Programs web pages. If you meet the requirements above, choose the Lambuth Campus or Extended Programs/eCampus option when you register for Interlibrary Loan . Materials will be mailed through the U.S. Postal Service, which can take a week or more. Consider requesting materials from a local library with which you are affiliated if you need materials quickly. If materials are mailed to your home address (for Extended Programs/eCampus users), you are responsible for returning them to the UM Libraries by their due dates. Lambuth library patrons may return materials at the Lambuth Library. (top of page) How long can I keep ILL loans? The lending library sets the loan period for your ILL loans, which can be from a couple of days to a couple of months. Look on the book-strap attached to the item you’ve borrowed for the due date, or logon to your ILL Account to view your Checked Out Items. You may request renewals through your ILL Account 5 days before and up to 2 days after the due date, unless the book-strap indicates that renewals are not allowed. When you request a renewal, your due date is extended by 5 days while we pass on your renewal request to the lending library. Logon to your ILL Account before the 5-day extension is up to see the new due date. We will let you know via e-mail if your renewal request is denied. Return ILL loans at the Check-Out Desk on the first floor of McWherter Library. (top of page) Can I renew ILL materials? If you loan is eligible for renewal, that information will appear in your notification e-mail and on your item "bookstrap" on the front cover. Renewals are granted at the discretion of the lending library. You must renew online through your ILLiad account or by contacting the ILL office . To renew online, login to ILLiad and, under the View Menu, select "Checked Out Items." From the list of items checked out to you, click the transaction number for the item you wish to renew to see the details of that request. When viewing the detail of your request, look for the line titled "Renewals Allowed?" If the value is "yes," you can request a renewal by clicking "Renew Request" at the top of the page. If the value is "no," then the library providing the material will not renew our loan and you must return the material by the due date. Renewals should be requested before the loan is overdue but there is a one-day grace period for the day after it is due. After that, the loan becomes overdue, can no longer be renewed, and should be returned as soon as possible. If you need help, please e-mail or phone the ILL office during regular business hours. (See How long can I keep ILL loans? ) (top of page) What if I lose or damage materials? If you lose or damage material ordered through Interlibrary Loan, you will most likely have to pay to replace the item, a price which is determined by the lending library. You will also have to pay whatever has accumulated in overdue fines, which are $1.00 per day. Repeated loss of or damage to material may result in a permanent suspension of interlibrary loan privileges. (top of page) I’m a faculty member. How do I arrange for delivery to my department? McWherter Library offers Document Delivery to faculty. This service is limited to circulating materials from the McWherter Library and to loans obtained through ILL. We do not currently provide delivery of articles from our print/microform collection. Daily, Monday-Friday, items will be checked out to your library/ILL Account and delivered to your department’s administrative office. You are responsible for renewing or returning the delivered materials by their due dates to McWherter. Submit all requests through your ILL Account. You do not need to specify if the material is available at McWherter Library. To arrange for delivery, please logon to your ILLiad account. Select CHANGE USER INFORMATION Choose DELIVER TO ADDRESS for your loan delivery method Give the building and room number of the administrative office of your department Select your Department from the drop-down menu Click SUBMIT INFORMATION (top of page) Please send questions/comments/suggestions to Interlibrary Loan Interlibrary Loan Staff Location My Library Account Review your library account for due dates and more. Interlibrary Loan Request books, articles, and other research materials from other libraries. Reserve space Group study and presentation spaces available in the library. Ask-a-Librarian Got a question? Got a problem? Ask Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .