#http://architecture.memphis.edu/2010aprvtr.pdf
University of Memphis Department of Architecture Continuation of Candidacy Visiting Team Report Master of Architecture ( 128 undergraduate credit hours in a pre - professional program plus 60 graduate credit hours) The National Architectural Accrediting Board 24 March 2010 The National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB), established in 1940, is the sole agency authorized t o accredit U.S. professional degree programs in architecture. Because most state registration boards in the United States require any applicant for licensure to have graduated from an NAAB - accredited program, obtaining such a degree is an essential aspect of preparing for the professional practice of architecture. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 iii Table of Contents Section Page I. Summary of Team Findings 1 1. Team Comments 1 2. Progress Since the Previous Site Visit 2 3. Conditions Well Met 8 4. Conditions Not Yet Me t 8 5. Causes of Concern 9 II. Compliance with the Conditions for Accreditation 11 III. Appendices 27 A. Program Information 27 1. History and Description of the Institution 27 2. Institutional Mission 28 3. Program History 30 4. Progra m Mission 33 5. Program Self Assessment 34 B. The Visiting Team 40 C. The Visit Agenda 42 IV. Report Signatures 44 University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 iv This page is left blank intentionally. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 1 I. Summary of Team Findings 1. Team Comments One of most di stinguishing features of this program is its small size, which has led to the creation of a remarkably strong community atmosphere among students, between students and faculty, and between faculty and students with the administration and the local profess ional community. There is a strong sense of family and mutual respect and tolerance among and between students, faculty and the administration which is unique and remarkable to this program. The team recognizes and applauds this singular achievement. With limited resources, the students and faculty have also creatively sought resources and funding for the school, including the forthcoming proposals to the University Students Green Fund, and thereby they transform shortcomings into assets. Students: The st udent body is highly motivated and committed to the program. The students collaborate extensively with one another, often on an informal basis, and pitch in to remedy problems where necessary. They appreciate the virtues of a small tightly knit community, and recognize the benefits of studying in such an environment. There is also remarkable diversity in the undergraduate and graduate student body, which is also reflected in the presence of women and other minority graduate TAs as teachers in t he undergrad uate program. The t eam also recognizes that teaching is one of the best ways of learning about a subject, so that the supervised teaching experience is valuable to all parties. Finally, the t eam was pleasantly surprised to learn that the current graduate students had read the previous VTR of 2008, and committed themselves to addressing the issues addressed in that document over the subsequent two years. No team member had encountered such a proactive stance on the part of students in this respect elsewher e. Faculty : the faculty is deeply committed to the students, the program, and the community and city building program that is reflected in all aspects of the program. They are an unusually congenial and supportive faculty, setting a model for good citizen ship for the entire student body. In addition, they foster an ideal environment for a supportive teaching and learning experience for all participants in the program. Their commitment to student success entails giving considerable personal attention to in dividual students, with noteworthy results. The fruits of their labors can be seen not only in the quality of their graduate students, but also in the high rate of placement of graduates of the four year program in the top M. Arch programs in the country. The Team particularly applauds the integration of structural systems into the design studio through personalized advisement of students. Administration: the chair and program d irector have helped foster a strong bond with the Hyde Foundation with the goal of bringing the school into a more focused c ollaboration with the Downtown D esign Center, and their mentoring and advising have been essential to the success of the new graduate students. University Administration : the provost and d ean strongly support t he program, and give every indication of being willing to maintain that su pport. They recognize that the d that of the u niversity, and recognize the importance of engaged research in the community building program. The ir added financial support for a staff person, for a new faculty line, and library resources are nt success. The p teaching/research/service profile for each faculty member is a rem arkably astute approach to the deployment of faculty resources. Professional Community: The local professionals and the local branch of the AIA have prov ided consistent support to the d epartment, not only in providing practitioners to serve as adjunct fac ulty but in seeking funding to supplement the d donations. That most of the faculty are registered architects and the additional participation of local practitioners provides positive role models of the profession and highlights the importance of registration and professional conduct. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 2 The program is to be commended for doing much to address the shortage of classroom space and other shortcomings, and for developing plans to deal with the remaining issues; the Team is confident that this is an ongoing endeavor. One real asset to the program is the wide range of design/build and community design opportunities available to faculty and students; that support will be forthcoming from the Hyde Foundatio n will further enhance these features of the program. The team has never before heard students praise the faculty for teaching them time management, even though time management is a critical component of success in architecture. 2. Progress Since the Pr evious Site Visit Condition 6, Human Resources (2008): The accredited degree program must demonstrate that it provides adequate human resources for a professional degree program in architecture, including a sufficient faculty complement, an administrativ e head with enough time for effective administration, and adequate administrative, technical, and faculty support staff. Student enrollment in and scheduling of design studios must ensure adequate time for an effective tutorial exchange between the teacher and the student. The total teaching load should allow faculty members adequate time to pursue research, scholarship, and practice to enhance their professional development. Previous Team Report (2008) : The architecture program has received assurance fro m the provost and the dean of the College of Communication and Fine Arts that sufficient new faculty lines will be provided for adequate staffing of the proposed Master of Architecture program. One new faculty position has been approved to supplement the existing five full time faculty lines, however, additional faculty will be required for a sustainable and thriving program. One additional staff position has been allocated to the new department of architecture. However, the architecture program lacks a shop, which will also require a shop supervisor for student education and safety. Currently the students operate machinery in the studio without adequate ventilation, dust collection, or regard for safety. 2010 Visiting Team Assessment: An additional sta ff person and one faculty line have been added since the 2008 VTR. Condition 7, Human Resource Development (2008): Schools must have a clear policy outlining both individual and collective opportunities for faculty and student growth inside and outside the program. Previous Team Report (2008): The NAAB Conditions for Accreditation requires the following information; this should be included in future reports: A description of the policies, procedures, and criteria for faculty appointment, promotion, an d tenure and access to faculty development opportunities activities since the previous site visit, including the granting of sabbatical leaves and unpaid leaves of absenc e, opportunities for the acquisition of new skills and knowledge, and support of attendance at professional meetings Evidence of how faculty members remain current in their knowledge of the changing demands of practice and licensure. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 3 There are limited opp ortunities for financial support of faculty development. The financial support is insufficient for the current as well as the expanded faculty. The lectures series and foreign study are areas for improvement. The lecture series is currently minimal, sporad ic and leans toward the local. Students express a desire to have additional opportunities to study abroad for credit. 2010 Visiting Team Assessment: A description of the policies, procedures and criteria for faculty appointment, promotion and tenure is a vailable at the u niversity level, and a draft document is available for the Department of Architecture. Formalized faculty development opportunities are available in university material regarding sabbaticals, but access to specific resources for faculty de velopment in the architecture program have not been formalized. Condition 8, Physical Resources (2008): The accredited degree program must provide the physical resources appropriate for a professional degree program in architecture, including design stud io space for the exclusive use of each student in a studio class; lecture and seminar space to accommodate both didactic and interactive learning; office space for the exclusive use of each full - time faculty member; and related instructional support space. The facilities must also be in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and applicable building codes. Previous Team Report (2008): present needs of the program and will bec ome significantly overcrowded with any amount of from the provost and the dean of the College of Communications and Fine Arts that the university is committed to providing adequate physical resources to support implementation of the proposed Master of Architecture program. At the time of the visit, the administration discussed three plans for resolution of current and future space deficiencies; with no clear ind sharing space in the vacated Law Building will yield sufficient, quality space to accommodate the anticipated growth of a successful Master of Architecture program; or if increasing existing space at th opportunity to assess long term needs until the new program has attained a sustainable size. The team is concerned that students will enter the Master of Arch itecture program in fall of 2008 with no clear place to house the expanded program before 2011. The architecture program should identify the best option and work with the administration to achieve it. In addition to absence of a specific plan for increas ing studio and office space; the 2008 visiting team is concerned for student safety resulting from absence of a supervised shop facility. ( Unsupervised student - owned power tools were observed on desktops in design studios ) 2010 Visiting Team Assessment: Space needs for stu dio will be addressed when the art d epartment moves out of the third floor in the summer of 2010. A shop manager has been hired which increased the safety of the shop, but the team is still concerned about ventilation and clearance aro und shop equipment. Condition 9, Information Resources (2008): Readily accessible library and visual resource collections are essential for architectural study, teaching, and research. Library collections must include at least 5,000 different cataloged titles, with an appropriate mix of Library of Congress NA, Dewey 720 29, and other related call numbers to serve the needs of individual programs. There must be adequate visual resources as well. Access to other architectural collections may University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 4 supplement, but not substitute for, adequate resources at the home institution. In addition to developing and managing collections, architectural librarians and visual resources professionals should provide information services that promote the research skills and cr itical thinking necessary for professional practice and lifelong learning. Previous Team Report (2008): minimum of 5,000 titles meeting the NAAB requirements. A small library in the arc hitecture program supplements the main library collection with current periodicals and limited reference material. An inventory of titles in both locations would identify deficiencies required for upgrading architecture library holdings to meet the NAAB r equirements for an accredited program. 2010 Visiting Team Assessment: The program is fewer than 200 titles short of meeting the NAAB requirement of 5000 NA volumes, and has the funds to continue acquisitions in the coming months. Condition 10, Financial Resources (2008): An accredited degree program must have access to sufficient institutional support and financial resources to meet its needs and be comparable in scope to those available to meet the needs of other professional programs within the institu tion. Previous Team Report (2008): The NAAB Conditions for Accreditation require that the APR provide the following: Comparative annual budgets and expenditures for each year since the last accreditation visit, including endowments, scholarships, one - tim e capital expenditures, and development activities. Data on annual expenditures and total capital investment per student, both undergraduate and graduate correlated to the expenditures and investments by other professional degree programs in the institutio n. At this time there is insufficient information in the APR to ascertain the institutional support and financial resources available to the program. The financial information for expenditure per architecture student is embedded in the art department budg et and is shown to be $5900; this is considerably lower than expenditure per student in any other professional program on campus. 2010 Visiting Team Assessment: The t eam found more appropriate and complete material regarding budget and data on total capit al investment per student. There has also been significant institutional support for the program in terms of staff and faculty lines, in addition to the forthcoming one time allocation of $20,000; the program has notified us that this was confirmed in the week following our visit. Condition 11, Administrative Structure (2008): The accredited degree program must be, or be part of, an institution accredited by one of the following regional institutional accrediting agencies for higher education: the South ern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS); the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools (MSACS); the New England Association of Schools and Colleges (NEASC); the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools (NCACS); the Northwest Commiss ion on Colleges and Universities (NWCCU); and the Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC). The accredited degree program must have a measure of autonomy that is both comparable to that afforded other professional degree programs in the institut ion and sufficient to ensure conformance with the conditions for accreditation. Previous Team Report (2008): The University of Memphis is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 5 At the time of this report the architecture program i s a unit of the Department of Art within the College of Communication and Fine Arts. The architecture program has petitioned to become a department of architecture within the college; the team received assurance from the provost that the new status will be approved in the APR; along with a comparison of the structure with those of other professional programs in the institution. Future teams will want to kn ow how the administrative structure of the new department relates to the college and the university. An organizational chart would explain these relationships. 2010 Visiting Team Assessment: The Department of Architecture is a fully operational departme nt, including budget, personnel, and curriculum, since 2008. Condition 12, Professional Degrees and Curriculum (2008): The NAAB accredits the following professional degree programs: the Bachelor of Architecture (B. Arch.), the Master of Architecture (M. Arch.), and the Doctor of Architecture (D. Arch.). The curricular requirements for awarding these degrees must include professional studies, general studies, and electives. Schools offering the degrees B. Arch., M. Arch., and/or D. Arch. are strongly enc ouraged to use these degree titles exclusively with NAAB - accredited professional degree programs. Previous Team Report (2008): The proposed Master of Architecture will consist of 128 undergraduate credits (earned in a pre - professional degree) plus 60 grad uate credits. The NAAB accredited degree requires that students have a broad education as is represented by the requirement for 45 general education credits. Presently, 41 credits are clearly defined to be general education and outside of the program of ar chitecture. There are electives within the curriculum that may or may not be taken within the architecture program. It is required that 45 credits be clearly outside of architecture. The Master of Architecture curriculum has adequate room to accommodate th e required electives. The existing four - year Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) has enough course structure to meet the NAAB Student Performance Criteria. It is not clear how the transition to the NAAB accredited M. Arch. will affect the existing BFA. Questions to be resolved include: Will the current BFA program remain the same? Are there courses that could be shifted from the BFA to the M. Arch. that would not diminish the opportunity for BFA students to gain employment in architecture offices? Does the propos ed M. Arch. consist largely of enhanced courses already offered in the BFA? Will the program be able to attract transfer students from other pre - professional programs? 2010 Visiting Team Assessment: Team Report 2010: The general education credits have be en increased to 54 credits, including in the graduate program. Criterion 13.9, Non - Western Traditions (2008): Understanding of parallel and divergent canons and traditions of architecture and urban design in the non - Western world Previous Team Report ( 2008): There is some evidence of student work addressing non - traditions in ARCH 1211, though it is not enough to meet this criterion. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 6 2010 Visiting Team Assessment: Equivalent to the course work still needs to be provided to meet the non - western tradi tions requirement. Students are currently only required to demonstrate their understanding of the subject in two short exam questions. Criterion 13.19, Environmental Systems (2008): Understanding of the basic principles and appropriate application and p erformance of environmental systems, including acoustical, lighting, and climate modification systems, and energy use, integrated with the building envelope Previous Team Report (2008): Understanding lighting and day lighting was found in the coursework; however, evidence of acoustical considerations was not present. ARCH 3421 Environmental Systems included excellent precedent studies of environmental system solutions; however, understanding of mechanical climate modification systems was not evident. 201 0 Visiting Team Assessment: Understanding of this criterion can be found in Arch 7421 Advanced mechanical systems, both acoustical and mechanical systems. The criterion is now met. Criterion 13.20, Life Safety (2008): Understanding of the basic principles of life - safety systems with an emphasis on egress Previous Team Report (2008): Adequate and code required egress provisions were found in most studio projects, however evidence of other life - safety systems were not found. 2010 Visiting Team Assessment: Evidence of understanding of code required egress solutions were located in most graduate studio projects. This criterion has now been met. Criterion 13.22, Building Service Systems (2008): Understanding of the basic principles and appropriate applicat ion and performance of plumbing, electrical, vertical transportation, communication, security, and fire protection systems Previous Team Report (2008): Limited evidence was found of the understanding of some facets of this criterion, while no evidence was found for understanding of vertical transportation, communication, security, or fire protection systems. 2010 Visiting Team Assessment: This criterion remains not yet met. While the understanding of vertical systems and fire protection systems has been d emonstrated in Arch 7421, the team could not find evidence of communication and security systems. Criterion 13.23, Building Systems Integration (2008): Ability to assess, select, and conceptually integrate structural systems, building envelope systems, environmental systems, life - safety systems, and building service systems into building design Previous Team Report (2008): While integration of structural systems, and building envelope systems was evident; and life safety integration was marginally exhib ited; i ntegration of mechanical climate modification systems was conspicuously absent 2010 Visiting Team Assessment: This criterion is now met. It is found in Arch 7711 and 7713. Criterion 13.25, Construction Cost Control (2008): Understanding of the fu ndamentals of building cost, life - cycle cost, and construction estimating University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 7 Previous Team Report (2008): Evidence of understanding the fundamentals of building cost, life cycle cost and/or construction estimating could not be found in the coursework listed i n the matrix. 2010 Visiting Team Assessment: This criterion remains not - yet - met. This is scheduled to be taught for the first time in Arch 7431, Advanced Professional Practice, which is ongoing and not complete at the time of the visit. The Team is conce rned that the course is already packed, and we are not certain that they can give the appropriate attention to this important criterion within only this course. Criterion 13.28, Comprehensive Design (2008): Ability to produce a comprehensive architectura l project based on a building program and site that includes development of programmed spaces demonstrating an understanding of structural and environmental systems, building envelope systems, life - safety provisions, wall sections and building assemblies , and the principles of sustainability Previous Team Report (2008): Ability to produce a comprehensive project was limited due to the absence of student understanding of mechanical climate modification systems. 2010 Visiting Team Assessment: This criterion is now met. Evidence of ability to produce a comprehensive architectural project is present in Arch 7712 and 7713, advanced architectural studios. However, the team noted that ADA compliance was not uniformly present in all projects. Causes of Concern taken from VTR dated March 19, 2008: Institutional commitment: The visiting team is confident that the seven (7) Student Human Resources ; Human Resource Development ; Physical Resourc es ; Information Resources ; Financial Resources ; and Professional Degrees and Curriculum . Sustainability: The team is concerned that the current successful outcomes of Student Achievement, Community Outreach, and Collegiality may be difficult to sustain wit hout the necessary support for adequate funding, appropriate facilities and additional faculty. Transition Plan: The team is concerned that the Master of Architecture degree proposal does not yet include a detailed plan for completing the transition from BFA to M. Arch.; studio and shop space. Shop: The team is concerned for st udent safety. The program is in need of a proper shop, a shop supervisor and a clear safety plan. 2010 Visiting Team Assessment: Human Resources An additional staff position has been added, as well as a faculty line. The plan is to add an additional lin e in the next five years. Human Resource Development The current forthcoming allocation of $20,000 will be an ongoing addition to the budget. There is no new money for faculty development or for a lecture series, and in the current climate, the local AIA h as been unable to help University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 8 in this respect. Shop equipment, such as laser cutters, are also not possible. This additional allocation may remedy these deficiencies in the next two years. There are sabbaticals available, but currently faculty members do not take advantage of them. Faculty members are involved in many community projects, and tend to be reluctant to leave community based projects. The Team notes that the publication of such projects is an important aspect of faculty development, as well as for futu re promotions and tenure. Physical Resources Improvements will occur when the Art Department moves out, as noted above. Information Resources This has been resolved. Financial Resources During our visit, the program was awaiting confirmation of $20,000 a llocation from the Provost; within a couple of days of our departure, the confirmed. The Department finds that the budget is inadequate for faculty development, lectures and special ized equipment purchases. Professional Degrees and Curriculum The program requirement for a minimum of 45 GE credits has been met (they have 54 credits required). Sustainability is no longer an issue. Transition Plan This is still an issue only insofar a s it concerns apparent redundancy in course offerings. Shop There is a shop manager, and there are ongoing negotiations with the Theater models are not available in the current sh op. Despite the presence of the shop manager, the Team has ongoing concerns about ventilation, clearances and life safety in the current shop. 3. Conditions Well Met 1.1 Architecture Education and the Academic Context 1.2 Architecture Education and St udents 1.5 Architecture Education and Society 13.3 Graphic skills 13.18 Structural Systems 4. Conditions Not Yet Met 7. Human Resources 8. Physical Resources 13.2 Critical Thinking skills 13.4 Research skills 13.9 Non - Western Traditions 13 .10 National and Regional Traditions 13.12 Human Behavior 13.13 Human Diversity 13.14 Accessibility 13.16 Program Preparation 13.22 Building Service Systems University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 9 13.25 Construction Cost Controls 5. Causes of Concern The causes for concern in m any cases involve documentation, articulation or clarification of policies and procedures that at present appear to be present, but only on an informal basis. 1. Review of Incoming student undergraduate Transcripts: Many of the courses that meet the stude nt performance criteria were found in the undergraduate course work. It is therefore critical to review the transcripts and supporting documentation of incoming graduate students to ascertain that these requirements have been adequately met in their previo us instruction. 2. Duplication of courses at undergraduate and graduate levels: The t eam identifie d a duplication of courses at the undergraduate and graduate levels that increases teaching loads and consumes faculty resources and student hours. The combina tions of technical and professional courses at the undergraduate level, where licensing is not an issue, would profit from being reconfigured, now that the M. Arch program is in place. 3. Course matrix simplification: For future accreditation reviews, the M . Arch course matrix for student performance criteria should only identify the one or two areas where the criterion in question is best met. 4. Observer for future visitation: The team believes there will be value for the program chair to participate as a non - voting team member for a visit in spring of 2011 to become familiar with 2009 Conditions and SPC, which are those that will govern the d 5. Continuing funding for development programs: The program needs a clear plan for funding for faculty development, research, and lecture series and for the enhancement of the annual budget on something other than a one - time basis. There is discussion about doing so, but no plan is yet in place. The program needs to formalize polici es for access to development and research funds for faculty. The team is concerned that while the university has a sabbatical program, faculty do not take advantage of it. 6. Hazmat study and code study: The team is concerned that a hazmat, ADA and mechani cal and environmental control study be conducted of the current facility, and that a plan be put into place to address the needed corrections and to specify when such a plan will be implemented. 7. Program visibility on campus: The transformation of the fir st floor gallery into a loading dock would be a huge lost opportunity for the program, which already suffers from an absence of review areas for formal and informal displays. Much of architectural education hinges upon public review and analysis, which is currently limited to narrow hallways. This is stunningly inadequate. The University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 10 community and city building and neighborhood outreach projects currently cannot be placed on public view in any venue, but were the program to have access to a space such as that of t he gallery, despite its relatively small size, there would be a place to welcome residents in the community and enable them to participate in the university environment. If the lobby were also developed as a useable resource, it would welcome students and faculty from 8. Storage space: There is no storage space for student work, which is a serious shortcoming for an architecture program. 9. Lack of s hop equipment: The current sh op lacks the appropriate equipment for the production of architectural models and has limited access hours, layout and storage space. Laser cutters, for example, are standard features of architecture programs throughout the US but this program does not ha ve one. Plans should be made for the acquisition of such specialty equipment. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 11 II. Compliance with the Conditions for Accreditation 1. Program Response to the NAAB Perspectives Schools must respond to the interests of the collateral organizations that make up the NAAB as set forth by this edition of the NAAB Conditions for Accreditation . Each school is expected to address these interests consistent with its scholastic identity and mission. 1.1 Architecture Educatio n and the Academic Context The accredited degree program must demonstrate that it benefits from and contributes to its institution. In the APR, the accredited degree program may explain its academic and professional standards for faculty and students; it s interaction with other programs in the institution; the contribution of the students, faculty, and administrators to the governance and the intellectual and social lives of the institution; and the contribution of the institution to the accredited degree program in terms of intellectual resources and personnel. Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Despite its small size, the architecture d epartment has a number of students and faculty who collaborate with faculty in other disciplines, s uch as anthropology, education, and urban p lanning, and students who take coursework in such other disciplines. The d epartment also welcomes students from elsewhere in the u niversity. 1.2 Architecture Education and Students The accredited degree progra m must demonstrate that it provides support and encouragement for students to assume leadership roles in school and later in the profession and that it provides an environment that embraces cultural differences. Given APR may exp lain how students participate in setting their individual and collective learning agendas; how they are encouraged to cooperate with, assist, share decision making with, and respect students who may be different from themselves; their access to the informa tion needed to shape their future; their exposure to the national and international context of practice and the work of the allied design - worth, and dignity are nurtured. Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] The Department of Architecture is remarkably supportive of its students; while demanding a high caliber of design work, the faculty nonetheless has set a high standard of cooperation and collaboration and mutual respect w hich continuing and new students quickly embrace. The students collaborate on various proj ects, particularly neighborhood - based ones, but they also collaborate informally, helping one another meet deadlines, keeping the studios clean and uncluttered, and i nformally mentoring younger students. Graduate students also have the opportunity to serve as teaching assistants and lecturers in undergraduate courses, something widely recognized as a great benefit to the undergraduates as well as to the graduate studen ts. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 12 1.3 Architecture Education and Registration The accredited degree program must demonstrate that it provides students with a sound preparation for the transition to internship and licensure. The school may choose to explain in the APR the accredit registration boards, the exposure of students to internship requirements including knowledge of the national Intern Development Program (IDP) and continuing education nding of their responsibility for professional conduct, and the proportion of graduates who have sought and achieved licensure since the previous visit. Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Active involvement and support for the program b y the local chapter of the AIA, participation in the program by local practicing architects as adjuncts and the majority of the faculty core are licensed architects has provided positive role models of the profession, and highlighted the importance of regi stration and professional conduct. Course work in ARCH 7431 Advanced Professional Practice and interviews with the student body demonstrate an obvious appreciation and understanding of the requirements of registration including the process of internship de velopment (IDP) and the importance of continuing education beyond graduation. Further discussion with the students indicated that many had started an IDP file and all expressed their intention to continue in the process to become a licensed architect after graduation. 1.4 Architecture Education and the Profession The accredited degree program must demonstrate how it prepares students to practice and assume new roles and responsibilities in a context of increasing cultural diversity, changing client and regulatory demands, and an expanding knowledge base. Given the APR may include an explanation of how the accredited degree program is engaged with the professional community in the life of the school; how students gain an awareness of the need to advance their knowledge of architecture through a lifetime of practice and research; how they develop an appreciation of the diverse and collaborative roles assumed by architects in practice; how they develop an understanding of an d respect for the roles and responsibilities of the associated their clients and the public and the demands of the creative enterprise; and how students acquire the e thics for upholding the integrity of the profession. Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Preparation for entry into the profession is demonstrated not only in the required professional practice course ARCH 7431, but also by the rich inv olvement of experienced practitioners who serve as adjunct instructors on the faculty and as regular visiting critics. These architects represent a significant resource and a vital connection to the best practices of the local architecture community, and h elp them develop an appreciation and respect of the diverse and collaborative roles of architects in practice. The students have demonstrated in coursework an understanding of their responsibility for professional conduct and ethics. Further they also are made aware of the increasing issues of cultural diversity through class diversity, diversity of their city and campus and diversity in their range of projects . University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 13 1.5 Architecture Education and Society The program must demonstrate that it equips students wi th an informed understanding of social and environmental problems and develops their capacity to address these problems with sound architecture and urban design decisions. In the APR, the accredited degree program may cover such issues as how students gai n an understanding of architecture as a social art, including the complex processes carried out by the multiple stakeholders who shape built environments; the emphasis given to generating the knowledge that can mitigate social and environmental problems; h ow students gain an understanding of the ethical implications of decisions involving the built environment; and how a climate of civic engagement is nurtured, including a commitment to professional and public services. Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] This criterion is well met . One real asset to the program is the wide range of design/build and community design opportunities available to faculty and students; that support will be forthcoming from the Hyde Foundation will further enha nce these features of the program. 2. Program Self - Assessment Procedures The accredited degree program must show how it is making progress in achieving the NAAB Perspectives and how it assesses the extent to which it is fulfilling its mission. The ass essment M et Not Yet Met [X] [ ] - assessment procedures are clear. The Department of Architecture Strategic Plan was developed in accordance with NAAB standards. These standards contain an assessment of mission statement and p rogress towards meeting program goals, the involvement of faculty, students, and alumni in the overall assessment, and a description of program strengths and future directions, among other items. 3. Public Information To ensure an understanding of the accredited professional degree by the public, all schools offering an accredited degree program or any candidacy program must include in their catalogs and promotional media the exact language found in the NAAB Conditions for Accreditation , Appendix A. To ensure an understanding of the body of knowledge and skills that constitute a professional education in architecture, the school must inform faculty and incoming students of how to access the NAAB Conditions for Accreditation . Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Catalog material as well as materials distributed to students each year ensure that the students are aware of the Conditions as well as Student Performance Criteria. Most if not all of the graduate students have read the previou s visiting team report, and committed themselves to doing what is necessary to meet the requirements of the criteria that are not yet met. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 14 4. Social Equity The accredited degree program must provide faculty, students, and staff irrespective of race, ethn icity, creed, national origin, gender, age, physical ability, or sexual orientation with an educational environment in which each person is equitably able to learn, teach, and work. The school must have a clear policy on diversity that is communicated to current and prospective physical, and financial resources. Faculty, staff, and students must also have equitable opportunities to participate in program governa nce. Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] The program has clear policies on diversity that are communicated to the faculty, students and staff. In addition , the program provides an excellent educational environment in prov iding opportunit ies for faculty, students and staff to participate in the governance of the program. 5. Studio Culture The school is expected to demonstrate a positive and respectful learning environment through the encouragement of the fundamental values of optimism, r espect, sharing, engagement, and innovation between and among the members of its faculty, student body, administration, and staff. The school should encourage students and faculty to appreciate these values as guiding principles of professional conduct th roughout their careers. Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] The studio culture provides a collaborative, supportive and entirely positive student environment, m has not reduced the culture to verbiage; it actually embodies a positive and responsible model of learning in studio course. The Department of Architecture has a written Honor Code , an Attendance and Participation Policy , and a set of Rules of Conduc t . These are provided to each student as a part of the New Student Orientation M anual . The students are collaborating on a revision of the studio culture policy; it is in its third draft form. 6. Human Resources The accredited degree program must dem onstrate that it provides adequate human resources for a professional degree program in architecture, including a sufficient faculty complement, an administrative head with enough time for effective administration, and adequate administrative, technical, a nd faculty support staff. Student enrollment in and scheduling of design studios must ensure adequate time for an effective tutorial exchange between the teacher and the student. The total teaching load should allow faculty members adequate time to pursue research, scholarship, and practice to enhance their professional development. Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Since the addition of a new faculty position and a new instructor position, there are now sufficient faculty to conduct t h e requisite coursework, and a department c hair who also directs the interior d esign d epartment but who has adequate time to administer the program effectively. The addition of a staff member and of a shop person has made an important contribution to the de partment as University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 15 a whole. Noted above is some concern about the duplication of courses on the undergraduate and graduate levels, which may cause heavier teaching loads than necessary. 7. Human Resource Development Schools must have a clear policy outlining b oth individual and collective opportunities for faculty and student growth inside and outside the program. Met Not Yet Met [ ] [X] A written policy, with complete information on availability of research funds for travel, res earch, and conference presentations has not yet been developed. The many neighborhood projects, and the projected collaborations with the Hyde Foundation, promise to expand on the existing opportunities in potentially interesting ways. 8. Physical Resou rces The accredited degree program must provide the physical resources appropriate for a professional degree program in architecture, including design studio space for the exclusive use of each student in a studio class; lecture and seminar space to accom modate both didactic and interactive learning; office space for the exclusive use of each full - time faculty member; and related instructional support space. The facilities must also be in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and appli cable building codes. Met Not Yet Met [ ] [X] The team is concerned that a hazmat, ADA and mechanical and environmental control study be conducted of the current facility, and that a plan be put into place to address the nee ded corrections , including a timetable for implementation. The transformation of the first floor gallery into a loading dock would be a huge lost opportunity for the program, which already suffers from an absence of review areas for formal and informal di splays. Much of architectural education hinges upon public review and analysis, which is currently limited to narrow hallways. Currently, t he community and city building and neighborhood outreach projects currently cannot be placed on public view in any ve nue, but were the program to have access to a space such as that of the gallery, despite its relatively small size, there would be a place to welcome residents in the community and enable them to participate in the university environment. If the lobby were also developed as a useable resource, it would welcome students There is no storage space for student work, which is a serious shortcoming for an architect ure program. The current shop lacks the appropriate equipment for the production of architectural models and has limited access hours, layout and storage space. Laser cutters, for example, are standard features of architecture programs throughout the US but this program does not have one. Plans should be made for the acquisition of such specialty equipment. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 16 9. Information Resources Readily accessible library and visual resource collections are essential for architectural study, teaching, and research. Library collections must include at least 5,000 different cataloged titles, with an appropriate mix of Library of Congress NA, Dewey 720 29, and other related call numbers to serve the needs of individual programs. There must be adequate visual resource s as well. Access to other architectural collections may supplement, but not substitute for, adequate resources at the home institution. In addition to developing and managing collections, architectural librarians and visual resources professionals should provide information services that promote the research skills and critical thinking necessary for professional practice and lifelong learning. Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Fewer than 200 books remain to achieve the requisite nu mber of 5000 books. 10. Financial Resources An accredited degree program must have access to sufficient institutional support and financial resources to meet its needs and be comparable in scope to those available to meet the needs of other professional programs within the institution. Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Progress has been made with the creation of the department in 2008, significant institutional support for the program in terms of staff and faculty lines, and the add ition of $20,000 to the d annual budget will enable the d epartment to plan to remedy some of the shortcomings noted above. There is, however, some concern that faculty , department h ead and director, architecture program salaries remain low compa red to other comparable departments at the u niversity. 11. Administrative Structure The accredited degree program must be, or be part of, an institution accredited by one of the following regional institutional accrediting agencies for higher education: the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS); the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools (MSACS); the New England Association of Schools and Colleges (NEASC); the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools (NCACS); the Northwe st Commission on Colleges and Universities (NWCCU); and the Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC). The accredited degree program must have a measure of autonomy that is both comparable to that afforded other professional degree programs in th e institution and sufficient to ensure conformance with the conditions for accreditation. Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] The Department of Architecture is administratively housed within the College of Co mmunication and Fine Arts. Th e d epartment was created in 2008 as a part of the commitment by the u niversity to a strong and viable architectural education program and to the accreditation of the M. Arch degree. The d epartment is fully operational and virtually all records have been tr ansferred showing the department relative to budget and personnel. The department does have a measure of autonomy that is both comparable to that afforded other professional degree programs in the institution and sufficient to ensure conformance with the c onditions for accreditation. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 17 12. Professional Degrees and Curriculum The NAAB accredits the following professional degree programs: the Bachelor of Architecture (B. Arch.), the Master of Architecture (M. Arch.), and the Doctor of Architecture (D. Arch.). The curricular requirements for awarding these degrees must include professional studies, general studies, and electives. Schools offering the degrees B. Arch., M. Arch., and/or D. Arch. are strongly encouraged to use these degree titles exclusively wit h NAAB - accredited professional degree programs. Met Not Yet Met [ X ] [ ] The appropriate non - architecture credits are in place, to a total of 54 credits. The team still believes that there is a redundancy in the courses in th e undergraduate and graduate program. 13. Student Performance Criteria The accredited degree program must ensure that each graduate possesses the knowledge and skills defined by the criteria set out below. The knowledge and skills are the minimum for me eting the demands of an internship leading to registration for practice. 13.1 Speaking and Writing Skills Ability to read, write, listen, and speak effectively Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Evidence was illustrated in Ar ch 4221, and in Arch 7211. The t eam found students at all levels to be exceptionally articulate verbally, but somewhat less so in writing. 13.2 Critical Thinking Skills Ability to raise clear and precise questions, use abstract ideas to interpret information, co nsider diverse points of view, reach well - reasoned conclusions, and test them against relevant criteria and standards Met Not Yet Met [ ] [X] There is evidence in studio and thesis projects and the accompanying materials tha t this is addressed, and in Arch 7211. However the level of sophistication in the analysis of some of the reading materials suggests that more work needs to be done. The team found no evidence of instructor feedback on the written work, from short papers t o thesis proposals. 13.3 Graphic Skills Ability to use appropriate representational media, including freehand drawing and computer technology, to convey essential formal elements at each stage of the programming and design process Met Not Y et Met [X] [ ] University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 18 Evidence of ability to meet this criterion is well demonstrated in student projects in ARCH 7712 and ARCH 7713 Advanced Architectural Design Studios including both freehand drawing and computer technology. The final design concepts were extremely well conveyed in the comprehensive projects. 13.4 Research Skills Ability to gather, assess, record, and apply relevant information in architectural coursework Met Not Yet Met [ ] [X] Visual, prece dent and other types of design research appear to be adequate. A higher level of development is necessary in the thesis research. While bibliographies were often extensive in the final thesis proposals, there was little evidence that any of these texts wer e actually used in the preparation of thesis proposals and research projects and in the 13.5 Formal Ordering Skills Understanding of the fundamentals of visual perception an d the principles and systems of order that inform two - and three - dimensional design, architectural composition, and urban design Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Evidence of understanding of the fundamentals of formal ordering skills and this criterion were demonstrated and in student projects in ARCH 7712 and 7713 Advanced Architecture Design Studios. 13.6 Fundamental Skills Ability to use basic architectural principles in the design of buildings, interior spaces, and sites Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Evidence of this is demonstrated in Arch 7712 and 7713. 13.7 Collaborative Skills Ability to recognize the varied talent found in interdisciplinary design project teams in professional practice and work i n collaboration with other students as members of a design team Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Evidence for this criterion is demonstrated in Arch 4716, and informal collaboration is an ongoing process in the Department. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 19 13.8 We stern Traditions Understanding of the Western architectural canons and traditions in architecture, landscape and urban design, as well as the climatic, technological, socioeconomic, and other cultural factors that have shaped and sustained them Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Evidence for this is found in Arch 1211 . 13.9 Non - Western Traditions Understanding of parallel and divergent canons and traditions of architecture and urban design in the non - Western world Met No t Yet Met [ ] [X] Progress has been made in the addition of non - western material to the existing history course, but there are inadequate student performance materials to demonstrate an understanding of the parallel and divergent canons and traditions of design in the non - Western world. At the time of the visit, the course work covering non - western materials only required students to respond to two short exam questions on this material, which in any case was significantly less than the at tention given to western traditions. 13.10 National and Regional Traditions Understanding of national traditions and the local regional heritage in architecture, landscape design and urban design, including the vernacular tradition Met Not Yet Met [ ] [X] The emphasis on regional traditions is abundantly evident in Advanced Architectural Design studios 7712 and 7713, and 4716. There is no evidence of understanding of national traditions. 13.11 Use of Precedents Abilit y to incorporate relevant precedents into architecture and urban design projects Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Evidence is found in Arch 4716, and at a lower level, in Arch 7712. It would be helpful for students to clearly demonstr ate how they have adopted solutions based on precedents in their projects. 13.12 Human Behavior Understanding of the theories and methods of inquiry that seek to clarify the relationship between human behavior and the physical environment Met Not Yet Met [ ] [X] University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 20 While some student work for thesis research indicated some awareness of this topic, it was not consistent across the student body. Such materials rarely appeared in bibliographies for thesis proposals, nor were they incorporated into thesis development. No coursework syllabi or other materials indicated that this criterion is addressed. 13.13 Human Diversity Understanding of the diverse needs, values, behavioral norms, physical ability, and social and spatial patt erns that characterize different cultures and individuals and the implication of this diversity for the societal roles and responsibilities of architects Met Not Yet Met [ ] [X] While the student body appears to be respectfu l and aware of such issues in their contacts with fellow students and faculty, the evidence for this in design work is absent. 13.14 Accessibility Ability to design both site and building to accommodate individuals with varying physical abilities Met Not Yet Met [ ] [X] While elements of understanding of this criterion were illustrate d in most studio projects, the t eam noted that ADA compliance was not uniformly demonstrated to the ability level on all projects in the comp rehensive advanced studio projects. 13.15 Sustainable Design Understanding of the principles of sustainability in making architecture and urban design decisions that conserve natural and built resources, including culturally important buildings and sites , and in the creation of healthful buildings and communities Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Evidence o f understanding of the principle s of sustainability and this criterion were demonstrated and documented in student projects in AR CH 7712 and 7713 Advanced Architecture Design Studios. 13.16 Program Preparation Ability to prepare a comprehensive program for an architectural project, including assessment of client and user needs, a critical review of appropriate precedents, an inven tory of space and equipment requirements, an analysis of site conditions, a review of the relevant laws and standards and assessment of their implication for the project, and a definition of site selection and design assessment criteria Met No t Yet Met [ ] [X] While some individual elements of the criterion were utilized in studio projects, evidence was not demonstrated in student work of the ability to prepare a comprehensive architectural program. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 21 13.17 Site Conditions Abi lity to respond to natural and built site characteristics in the development of a program and the design of a project Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Evidence of this criterion can be found in ARCH 7711 & 7712 Advanced Design Stud io I & II. 13.18 Structural Systems Understanding of principles of structural behavior in withstanding gravity and lateral forces and the evolution, range, and appropriate application of contemporary structural systems Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] This criterion is well met. Evidence of this criterion can be found in ARCH 3313 Structures III. The Team particularly applauds the integration of structural systems into the design studio through the personalized advisement of stud ents . 13.19 Environmental Systems Understanding of the basic principles and appropriate application and performance of environmental systems, including acoustical, lighting, and climate modification systems, and energy use, integrated with the building e nvelope Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Evid ence of understanding of this criterion was demonstrated in student work in ARCH 7421 Environmental Systems. 13.20 Life - Safety Understanding of the basic principles of life - safety syste ms with an emphasis on egress Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Evidence of understanding of basic principle s of life - safety systems with an emphasis on egress was demonstrated in student projects in ARCH 7712 and 7713 Advanced Archi tecture Design Studios. 13.21 Building Envelope Systems Understanding of the basic principles and appropriate application and performance of building envelope materials and assemblies Met Not Yet Met University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 22 [X] [ ] Evidence of u nderstanding of this criterion was found in student work in ARCH 7421 Environmental Systems and further demonstrated in ARCH 4441 and student studio work. 13.22 Building Service Systems Understanding of the basic principles and appropriate application an d performance of plumbing, electrical, vertical transportation, communication, security, and fire protection systems Met Not Yet Met [ ] [X] While evidence of understanding was found in student work in ARCH 7421 Environmenta l Systems for most of the criteria , no evidence was found to support an understanding of communication and security systems. 13.23 Building Systems Integration Ability to assess, select, and conceptually integrate structural systems, building envelope sy stems, environmental systems, life - safety systems, and building service systems into building design Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Evidence of this criterion can be found in ARCH 7711 Advanced Design Studio I and ARCH 7713 Archit ecture + Urban Studio I. 13.24 Building Materials and Assemblies Understanding of the basic principles and appropriate application and performance of construction materials, products, components, and assemblies, including their environmental impact and reuse Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Evidence of this criterion can be found in ARCH 7421 Environmental Systems. 13.25 Construction Cost Control Understanding of the fundamentals of building cost, life - cycle cost, and constructio n estimating Met Not Yet Met [ ] [X] Graduate level Arch 7431 Advanced Professional Practice where the subject matter of this criterion is scheduled to be covered is currently on going and not complete. The t eam is concerned that this course is already packed and is not certain that the appropriate attention can be given to this criterion in this course alone. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 23 13.26 Technical Documentation Ability to make technically precise drawings and write outline specifications for a proposed design Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Evidence of ability of this criterion can be found in student work in undergraduate level ARCH 4441 Construction Documents. However graduate level Arch 7431 Advanced Professional Pract ice where the subject matter is scheduled to be covered is currently on going and not complete. 13.27 Client Role in Architecture Understanding of the responsibility of the architect to elicit, understand, and resolve the needs of the client, owner, and user Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Evidence of understanding of this criterion can be found in student work in undergraduate level ARCH 3431 Professional Practice. However graduate level Arch 7431 Advanced Professional Practice whe re the subject matter is scheduled to be covered is currently on going and not complete. 13.28 Comprehensive Design Ability to produce a comprehensive architectural project based on a building program and site that includes development of programmed spa ces demonstrating an understanding of structural and environmental systems, building envelope systems, life - safety provisions, wall sections and building assemblies , and the principles of sustainability Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Evidence of ability to produce a comprehensive architectural project is illustrated in student projects in ARCH 7712 and ARCH 7713 Advanced Architectural Studios. 13.29 Understanding of obtaining commissions and nego tiating contracts, managing personnel and selecting consultants, recommending project delivery methods, and forms of service contracts Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Evidence of understanding this criterion can be found in student w ork undergraduate level ARCH 3431 Professional Practice. However graduate level Arch 7431 Advanced Professional Practice where the subject manner is scheduled to be covered is currently on going and not complete. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 24 13.30 Architectural Practice Understand ing of the basic principles and legal aspects of practice organization, financial management, business planning, time and project management, risk mitigation, and mediation and arbitration as well as an understanding of trends that affect practice, such as globalization, outsourcing , project delivery, expanding practice settings, diversity, and others Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Evidence of understanding of this criterion can be found in student work in undergraduate level ARCH 3 431 Professional Practice. However graduate level Arch 7431 Advanced Professional Practice where the subject manner is scheduled to be covered is currently on going and not complete. 13.31 Professional Development Understanding of the role of internship in obtaining licensure and registration and the mutual rights and responsibilities of interns and employers Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Evidence of understanding of this criterion can be found in student work in undergraduate l evel ARCH 3431 Professional Practice and graduate level Arch 7431 Advanced Professional Practice. 13.32 Leadership Understanding of the need for architects to provide leadership in the building design and construction process and on issues of growth, de velopment, and aesthetics in their communities Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Evidence of the understanding of this criterion can be found in student work in undergraduate level ARCH 3431 Professional Practice and in graduate level Arch 7431 Advanced Professional Practice. 13.33 Legal Responsibilities Understanding of codes and regulations, professional service contracts, zoning and subdivision ordinances, environmental regulation, historic preservation laws, and accessibility laws Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Evidence of the understanding of this criterion can be found in student work in undergraduate level ARCH 3431 Professional Practice. However graduate level Arch 7431 Advanced Professional Practice where the subject manner is scheduled to be covered is currently on going and not complete. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 25 13.34 Ethics and Professional Judgment Understanding of the ethical issues involved in th e formation of professional judgment in architectural design and practice Met Not Yet Met [X] [ ] Evidence of understanding of this criterion can be found in student work in undergraduate level ARCH 3431 Professional Practic e and graduate level Arch 7431 Advanced Professional Practice. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 26 T his page is left blank intentionally. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 27 III. Appendices Appendix A: Program Information 1. History and Description of the Institu tion The following text is taken from the 2010 University of Memphis Architecture Program Report . Founding: The University of Memphis was founded under the auspices of the General Education Bill, enacted by the Tennessee Legislature in 1909. Known origin ally as West Tennessee Normal School, the institution opened its doors on 10 September 1912. Students in the first classes selected blue and gray as the school colors and the tiger as the mascot. Tradition holds that the colors were chosen in commemoratio n of the reuniting of the country. In 1925 the name of the college changed to West Tennessee State Teachers College. Three years later, the Brister Library was built, named after two - term president John W. Brister. In 1931 the students created a campus n ewspaper, The Tiger Rag. And in 1935, the agriculture department was discontinued as the focus of the school changed. In 1941 the name changed again, Memphis State College. In 1950 graduate studies were initiated, and in 1954 the school switched from a q uarter to a semester system. University Status: In 1957 the state legislature designated full university status and the name of the institution changed to Memphis State University. In 1959 the university admitted its first African - American students In the 1960s, the State of Tennessee deeded Chucalissa Park and Museum to MSU, the School of Law, College of Engineering, School of Nursing, and the Bureau of Business and Economic Research were founded. The 1970s saw new buildings constructed across the cam pus, including a University Center and a 12 - story library. Enrollment passed 20,000 students. In 1977, the College of Communication and Fine Arts was established. In 1983 Memphis State University became the first public university in Tennessee to gain ac creditation of its entire curriculum. In 1994 Memphis State University became The University of Memphis, and the Ned R. McWherter Library was completed. In 2000 the Architecture Program joined the College of Communication and Fine Arts. As the century cl osed, a 1,200 - seat theater was completed, and a full - service hotel and hospitality training facility, a $15 million gift from Holiday Inn founder Kemmons Wilson, was constructed. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 28 In 2001 Dr. Shirley Raines became president. And, in 2003 the FedEx Institut e of Technology, adjacent to the Fogelman College of Business and Economics, was opened. Description: The University of Memphis is one of three comprehensive institutions of higher learning in the State of Tennessee. Situated primarily on a 1,160 - acre urb an campus with over 200 buildings at eight sites, the University of Memphis is the flagship of the Tennessee Board of Regents system and awards more than 3,000 degrees annually. In 2008, enrollment was 20,214 consisting of 15,813 Undergraduate students, 4 ,401 Graduate students, and 411 Law School students. Full time students make up 67 percent of the total while 38 percent of the students are men and 62 percent are woman. The University employs approximately 2500 persons including 850 full time faculty mem bers. The University of Memphis is committed to scholarly accomplishments of its students and faculty and to the enhancement of the community. The University offers 15 bachelors degrees in more than 50 majors and 70 concentrations, masters degrees in 50 s ubjects and doctoral degrees in 21 disciplines, in addition to the Juris Doctor and a specialist degree in education. The University also has an on - line degree program. The University of Memphis has 24 Chairs of Excellence, more than any other Tennessee u niversity, and five state - approved Centers of Excellence as well as the FedEx Institute of Technology. The Helen and Jabie Hardin Chair of Economics/Managerial Journalism, Dorothy K. Hohenberg Chair of Excellence in Art History, two Ben Rawlins Professorsh ips, and the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archeology are located within the College of Communication and Fine Arts. The University of Memphis is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) to award bachelors, professional, masters, educational specialists, and doctoral degrees. SACS is the recognized regional accrediting body in the eleven U.S. Southern states. More information may be obtained from SACS by contacting the organization at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033 - 4097. The SACS telephone number is 404.679.4501. The SACS web site address is Individual colleges, schools and departments of the University of Memphis are accredited by the appropriate agencies. The website of the University of Memphis is 2. Institutional Mission The following text is taken from the 2010 University of Memphis Architecture Program Report . The Mission: The University of Memphis is a learner - centered metropoli tan research university providing high quality educational experiences while pursuing new knowledge through research, artistic expression, and interdisciplinary and engaged scholarship. The Vision: The University of Memphis will be recognized as one of Am erica's great metropolitan research universities, noted for its comprehensive, innovative academic programs and for capitalizing on its urban setting and region to address the challenges of our global society. Values: The University of Memphis, as an enga ged learning community, celebrates: University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 29 The pursuit of excellence in teaching and research as the highest measures of successful achievement. Interdisciplinary collaboration, artistic expression, and research as vehicles for leveraging our resources, solving p roblems, and multiplying our accomplishments. The transfer and dissemination of knowledge with community stakeholders for the intellectual, economic, and social advancement of our community. Innovation and creativity in everything we do. Respect for divers ity and individual worth. Integrity and transparency in all our actions. Responsible stewardship and conservation of resources. Stewardship of wisdom, knowledge, and information created by our predecessors. Leadership and involvement in the economic, socia l, and professional growth of Memphis, the state of Tennessee, and the nation. Strategic Priorities: The University of Memphis' strategic plan supports the following overarching strategic priorities: Investing in people Creating interdisciplinary initia tives Building productive partnerships Developing new resources Enhancing image and reputation Community connectedness Goals: The governing body of the University of Memphis, the Tennessee Board of Regents (TBR), requires the president of each institution in the system to "exercise such supervision and direction as will promote the efficient operation of the institution." Additionally, TBR requires that each institution under its authority submit a five - year plan that supports the mission, vision, goals an d priorities of the system. Accordingly, a preliminary plan was developed for 2000 - 2005, which has subsequently been updated to reflect what the University hopes to accomplish by 2012, the date of the 100 th anniversary of the founding. Goal 1: Student Suc cess Provide superior learning experiences for students built on strong academic programs, a global and technological environment, a dynamic campus, and the rich opportunities in the University's metropolitan setting. Goal 2: Scholarship and Research Crea te and disseminate knowledge through research, artistic expression, and interdisciplinary collaboration that contributes to the intellectual, economic, cultural, and social well - being of regional and global communities. Goal 3: Access and Diversity Foster equitable access and promote and support intercultural and international understanding, diversity, inclusion and communication. Goal 4: Partnerships University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 30 Establish and nurture productive partnerships that provide leadership and resources for intellectual and economic development to meet significant scientific and social challenges. Goal 5: Resources and Infrastructure Provide faculty, staff, resources and infrastructure to achieve the mission and goals of the University. Date of Approval: December 2005 meeti ng of the Tennessee Board of Regents Website http: 1/ 3. Program History The following text is taken from the 2010 University of Memphis Architecture Program Report . Introduction: This section presents an overview of the four - year pre - professional Bachelor of Fine Arts in Architecture degree with additional information on the Master of Architecture degree. Founding: Architectural education at the University of Memphis began in 1965 in the Industrial Arts Program. The fo llowing year, several programs, including the new Architectural Technology Program, were combined with Industrial Arts Education to create the Department of Engineering Technology. The degree became the Bachelor of Science in Engineering Technology (BSET) with a major in Architectural Technology. The overall emphasis of the program was on the applied sciences. The Architectural Technology Program was accredited by the Technology Accreditation Commission of the Accrediting Board for Engineering and Technolog y (TAC of ABET). The original concept of the Architectural Technology Program was to provide the architectural community with highly skilled design drafters with engineering - oriented backgrounds. At the time of the creation of the program, it was believed the Architectural Technology graduates could relieve the architect of many of the tasks that consumed significant amounts of time. The philosophy and program emphasis was valid at that time and worked in those cases where applied. In the 1990s, it became clear the program needed to evolve to better meet the needs of the students and the professional community. The original concept of a "drafting program" was no longer valid. With the addition of new faculty and the implementation of dedicated studio space for each student, a significant change in the direction of the program took place. The goal of creating a professional program became more fully supported. Move to CCFA: In 2000, the Architecture Program was administratively moved to the College of Comm unication and Fine Arts (CCFA) and the Bachelor of Fine Arts in Architecture degree was created to replace the BSET in Architectural Technology degree. The BFA in Architecture was developed as a pre - professional, four - year program of study and is the only one of its kind in Tennessee. Although the move to CCFA resulted in the loss of ABET accreditation, it provided an opportunity to develop with a much stronger framework of support from within the University as well as from the professional community. The desire of the professional community and the Architecture faculty to develop a professional Master of Architecture program and to become accredited by the National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB) became a focal point. Accordingly, the move was University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 31 made to officially begin formal planning for the establishment of a professional degree program in architecture. Present Day: The Department of Architecture consists of the Architecture Program and the Interior Design Program. It is administratively housed wi thin the College of Communication and Fine Arts which also includes the Department of Art, the Department of Communication, the Department of Journalism, the Department of Theatre and Dance and the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music. The College also houses t he University Art Museum and the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archeology. Since moving to CCFA, the Architecture Program adopted an undergraduate entrance evaluation and candidacy review process and has increased the standards for acceptance into the pro gram. This has resulted in an increase in the level of academic quality of the students. Goals: The primary goal of the Department of Architecture is to prepare graduates for success in the profession of architecture and in society. The broad - based gener al goal of the Master of Architecture degree program is to prepare graduates to enter the profession of architecture. The goal of the BFA in Architecture degree program is to prepare graduates for success in a professional Master of Architecture degree pro gram and, secondly, to prepare graduates for entry into the professional workplace. One hundred percent of students making application to a Master of Architecture degree program since the inception of the BFA in Architecture degree have been accepted and v irtually all have received advanced standing. Urban Laboratory: As an urban research institution, the University of Memphis encourages faculty and students to become involved in the "urban laboratory" of the Memphis region. In recent years, faculty and st udents in the Department of Architecture have completed a number of externally and internally funded research projects as well as many non - funded projects throughout the Memphis urban area. Examples of these are found elsewhere in this report. Current F ormer Michael Hagge, M. Arch Raymond Martin, M. Arch Department Chair Program Coordinator 2008 - Present 1985 - 1989 Architecture Program Coordinator 2002 - Present Sherry Bryan, M. Arch Norris Gabriel, MS Coordinator of Graduate Studies Program Coordinator 2008 - Present 1965 - 1985 Architecture Program Coordinator 1989 - 2002 History of Planning for the M. Arch : Discussions and efforts to create a professional degree in architecture at the University of Memphis have been ongoing for ove r twenty years. This has been led by faculty as well as local architects and others with a desire to improve the state of architectural education at the university. The first significant mention of the need for a professional degree program was in the Dow ntown Development Plan prepared by Venturi Rauch and Scott Brown for the Memphis Center City Commission in 1987. The Urban Design section of the plan stressed the importance of a professional program to the well - being of the city. NOTE: Before joining University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 32 the faculty, Michael Hagge and James Williamson both worked on this plan: Professor Hagge as President of the Center City Development Corporation and Professor Williamson as the consulting architect in charge of the urban design segment. Peer Review Report: In 2004, the Architecture Program was reviewed by two well - known and respected architectural educators, Larry Speck from the University of Texas at Austin and Peter Waldman from the University of Virginia. Based upon their recommendations, the University o f Memphis made the commitment to pursue a professional degree in architecture. NAAB Planning: In 2005, the University asked former NAAB executive director Sharon Matthews to visit and offer an assessment of the BFA in Architecture degree program and to a ssist with the development of a plan of action to establish a professional Master of Architecture degree program. Ms. Matthews met with faculty, local architects, and university administrators over a several day period. Afterwards, a formalized planning pr ocess was implemented and support requested and received from a variety of individuals and organizations including but not limited to the Memphis Chapter of the American Institute of Architects, the Tennessee Board of Architectural and Engineering Examiner s, the City of Memphis, the County of Shelby, and several prominent architecture firms and real estate developers. This action built upon the April 1992 visit of then - NAAB Executive Director John Maudlin - Jeronimo and his recommendations to create a profess ional degree program and the significant changes that needed to occur before such a program could be developed and implemented. TBR / THEC: A formal letter of intent to establish the Master of Architecture degree was prepared and submitted to the Tenness ee Board of Regents (TBR) in November 2005, by President Shirley Raines. The faculty of the Architecture Program, working with university administrators as well as local architects, developed a curriculum for the M. Arch and secured approval from the gradu ate school. After submission of the formal proposal in September 2006, the TBR began a review process and, at the request of President Shirley Raines, worked diligently to expedite the review and approval process. The TBR contracted with University of Tex as Professor Larry Speck, based on his experience as an architectural educator and his familiarity with the Architecture Program at the University of Memphis. Upon receiving the report from Professor Speck, the proposal was placed on the TBR agenda and app roved by unanimous vote at the meeting of 28/29 June 2007. After receiving the report and recommendation from the TBR, the Tennessee Higher Education Commission voted to approve the proposal at their meeting on 26 July 2007. NAAB Candidacy: In March 2008 , the first NAAB site visit took place. After reviewing the findings Candidacy status was granted for the new Master of Architecture degree program effective 1 January 2008. The first M. Arch students were admitted in the fall semester of 2008. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 33 4 . Program Mission The following text is taken from the 2010 University of Memphis Architecture Program Report . Introduction: This section includes information relative to the M. Arch degree program as well as the mission and goals of the BFA in Archite cture degree program. The latter information is included for historical context. This is in keeping with the fact that the Architecture Program serves two primary groups: those wishing to become an architect and those who desire to work in the architectura l field but not necessarily as a registered architect. Focus: The focus of the Department of Architecture is on the well - rounded education of the individual student. The program of study for each degree encompasses both the art and science of design and is structured with a primary objective: to engage students in the processes and professional standards of design and technology necessary for shaping the built environment. Towards this, the Department of Architecture places the student at the center of di scovery - based studies, and requires each student to assume responsible participation in their education. M. Arch Mission : The mission of the Master of Architecture degree program at the University of Memphis is to prepare graduates to enter the professio nal practice of architecture and to serve the Memphis and Mid - South region through research, engaged scholarship, interdisciplinary collaboration, and creative expression that contributes to sustainable, stable communities and enhances the quality of life for all citizens. M. Arch Goals: The specific goals of the Master of Architecture program are: Goal 1: To provide the highest quality architectural education through a well - rounded discovery - based curriculum in both the art and science of design with emphasis on processes, professional standards, and the practical application of design and technology; Goal 2: To provide research opportunities for faculty and students with emphasis on "hands on" multi - disciplinary projects through which students gain v aluable professional experience while providing services to the citizens of the region; Goal 3: To bring together the Architecture, City Planning, and Real Estate Development programs through the Henry Turley Residency and a collaborative Design Center to address public issues, support stable and sustainable neighborhoods, and develop community visions throughout the region. Date of Adoption: These were adopted in 2005 as an element of the proposal to the Tennessee Board of Regents to establish the profe ssional Master of Architecture degree. The proposal was submitted in 2006 and approved in 2007. BFA Mission: The mission of the BFA in Architecture degree is to provide students with a foundation for continuing their architectural education in a professi onal Master of Architecture degree program, and to provide students with a foundation for entering the architectural workplace. Overall Goals: The Department of Architecture has adopted three major goals: Goal 1: To become a highly respected pre - profess ional architecture program with graduates regularly accepted with advanced standing into professional Master of Architecture degree programs nation - wide. NOTE: This has been accomplished. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 34 Goal 2: To develop a professional Master of Architecture degree prog ram accredited by the National Architectural Accrediting Board. NOTE: The M. Arch was approved by the University of Memphis, Tennessee Board of Regents and Tennessee Higher Education Commission, implemented, and approved for Candidacy status by NAAB effect ive I January 2008. Goal 3: To establish the administrative structure within the College of Communication and Fine Arts to ensure the accreditation of the Master of Architecture degree. NOTE: This has been accomplished. The Department of Architecture was established effective 1 July 2008 within the College of Communication and Fine Arts. Date of Adoption: The mission and goals shown above were adopted for inclusion in the 2004 Peer Review Report. 5. Program Self Assessment The following text is taken f rom the 2010 University of Memphis Architecture Program Report . Overview: The Department of Architecture is making progress towards meeting its goals through the enhancement of the curriculum, expansion of outreach and research, and recruiting and gradua ting students with a higher academic quality. Shortcomings primarily remain linked to inadequate number of faculty, inadequate space, and inadequate funding. However, these are being addressed as indicated elsewhere in this Architecture Program Report. In the section on challenges, items from the Peer Review Report as well as the 2008 Visiting Team Report are listed along with actions taken to remedy the deficiencies. Process: The Department of Architecture Strategic Plan is being developed in accordance with NAAB standards. These standards require an assessment of mission statement and progress towards meeting program goals, the involvement of faculty, students, and alumni is the overall assessment, and a description of program strengths and future direc tions, among other items. Program Strengths: The following strengths for the most part relate to the Department in general although some are specific to the M. Arch degree. One hundred percent acceptance rate of BFA in Architecture graduates into profess ional Master of Architecture programs nation wide. Among these are: Boston Architectural Center, Florida International University, Georgia Tech, Illinois Institute of Technology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Rice University, Southern California I nstitute of Architecture, Tulane University, University of Illinois Chicago, University of Florida, University of Michigan, University of Oregon, University of Pennsylvania, University of Tennessee, University of Virginia, Virginia Tech, Washington Univers ity, and Yale University. Dedicated faculty and students involved in the community and various academic endeavors. These include working with a variety of organizations such the American Institute of Architects (AIA), Urban Land Institute (ULI), the Const ruction Specifications Institute (CSI), and the Memphis Regional Design Center, among others. The Discovering Architecture summer camp has been ongoing for six years. This is a partnership between the Department of Architecture and the Memphis Chapter of the American Institute of Architects. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 35 Increased opportunities for student involvement in faculty research including collaborative external projects with the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy at the University of Memphis as well as internal design p rojects, particularly within the Community Initiatives Program, and other activities. Balanced curriculum integrating technical and other support courses into the design studios. Opening of the two on - campus Architecture + Design House living learning co mmunities. Establishment of new Honors courses and sections for architecture students. Establishment of a new Department of Architecture honors program. Increased standing and visibility in the professional community and stronger relationship with the M emphis Chapter of the AIA since moving to the College of Communication and Fine Arts. Increased partnering with AIA Memphis on a variety of events for faculty and student development and fund - raining. Increased support from architectural firms, developer s, and others. Enhanced working relationship with the Interior Design Program which is now housed within the Department of Architecture. Integration of Architecture and Interior Design foundation courses. Positive relationship with the Dean of the Colle ge of Communication and Fine Arts, the Provost, and the President of the University. Increased visibility through focused marketing and promotion campaign by the University. Increased visibility through selection by University administrators to represent the University before various board and organizations. Increased level of financial support resulting in the establishment of the Henry M. Turley Residency. An ongoing campaign towards the endowment of a professorship in Architecture. Establishment of the Memphis Regional Design Center of which the University is a founding partner and the involvement of the design director as a visiting critic. Awards received by faculty within the past several years as a result of activities directly involving and/or benefiting students. Additional information is contained in the faculty curriculum vitae . Excellence in Teaching Award from the University of Memphis Honors Program, Professor Michael Hagge Faculty Advisor of the Year, from the College of Communication an d Fine Arts, the University of Memphis, Professor Sherry Bryan Excellence in Engaged Scholarship (representing the College of Communication University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 36 and Fine Arts, the University of Memphis), Professor Michael Hagge Outstanding Research Award, from the Dean of th e College of Communication and Fine Arts, the University of Memphis, Professor Michael Hagge National Project of the Year, from the University Economic Development Association (UEAD), Professor Michael Hagge University of Memphis Faculty Advisor of the Y ear, from the University of Memphis, Professor Sherry Bryan Advisor of the Year, from the University College, the University of Memphis, Professor Tom Mason National Project of the Year, from the National Association of Management and Technical Assistanc e Centers (NAMTAC), Professor Michael Hagge Establishment of a chapter of Alpha Rho Chi, national honor co - ed fraternity for architecture and the induction of Robert Ivy (Architectural Record) into the Memphis chapter. Expanded scholarship opportunities for architecture students including the Robinson Fellowship for M. Arch students through the College of Communication and Fine Arts. Architecture students winning numerous awards and recognition including the Francis Mah Travel Grant, awarded by AIA Memp his, over half the times it has been awarded, special recognition by the Tennessee Board of Regents, and a national award from the American Institute of Architecture Students. Architecture students in high demand in architecture offices throughout the reg ion and highly sought after by various M. Arch programs. Challenges and Responses: These areas of concern were identified in the previous APR and the two previous reviews (Peer Review and VTR). Inadequate number of full - time faculty members in Architectu re. An additional faculty line was provided to the Department of Architecture to support the M. Arch program and an Instructor position was funded. The director of the Memphis Regional Design Center serves as a guest critic in Architecture. Conversations are underway with the Graduate Program in City and Regional Planning for collaborative courses thus furthering resources of both programs. Private efforts are underway to secure an endowed position and Funding for adjunct faculty has been positive. Teachi ng loads are much higher than norms in traditional architectural education (3/3 or 4/4 as opposed to 2/2). Tenured and tenure - track faculty teaching loads have been reduced or faculty members have been able to introduce new courses within their area of re search and specialization. Honors courses have also been introduced and independent studies in structures and building technology now accompany each design studio. Only two tenured faculty members and one tenure - track faculty member. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 37 At present, there ar e three tenured faculty members in the Architecture Program and two tenure - track faculty members both of whom were hired on an accelerated tenure track and one of whom was hired at the rank of Associate Professor. One tenured and one tenure - track Interior Design faculty member teach in the common foundations sequence, thus freeing Architecture faculty to focus on upper level undergraduate and graduate Architecture courses. Lack of financial resources for supplies, equipment, educational activities. A stud ent fee of $20 per credit hour was introduced and students in all Architecture and Interior Design courses are required to pay this fee. This fee brings in approximately $46,000 per academic year. Additional information is contained in the financial sectio n. Inadequate academic enrichment funding for visiting faculty, outside speakers, and visiting critics. The Department of Architecture is continuing to partner with AlA Memphis, Memphis Heritage, Inc., the Memphis Brooks Museum of Art, the Urban Land Ins titute, and others to address this issue, although more remains to be done. All four registered student organizations within the Department have brought speakers to campus including some with regional and national significance. The new graduate student so ciety has organized a lecture series for faculty and M. Arch students to present their research. Inadequate space particularly in studios, exhibit/critique, and computer facilities. This has not been completely resolved although progress has been made. I n the spring 2008 semester, additional space in Jones Hall was allocated to the Department of Architecture. This permitted the expansion of the design studio spaces to accommodate the M. Arch students. The discussions relative to the move of the Departmen t of Architecture to the Law Building when the School of Law vacates that facility were ongoing at the time of the NAAB site visit. However, at the recommendation of the NAAB team, the Department received assurance from the Provost that it would remain in Jones Hall and move into some of the space to be vacated when the Department of Art moves into the Law Building, probably in 2010. This additional space includes the remainder of the third floor, a room in the basement, and the continued sharing of classr oom space on the second floor. This should be sufficient to meet current program space needs. Computer studio/lab removed from Technology Access Fee (TAF) footprint. Since the NAAB site visit, both computer labs within the Department of Architecture were placed back on the TAF footprint and all computer hardware was updated with new equipment (twenty workstations in each lab). In addition, the University supplied fixed "Smart Room" equipment in JO408. Inadequate staff resources. A new staff position has been approved for the Department of Architecture and interviews are in progress as of the date of this APR. This new position is at a higher rank than the staff person originally provided to the Department and the person hired should be able to University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 38 assume man y of the more complex responsibilities now being performed by faculty members including financial management. In addition, the Budget Officer for the College of Communication and Fine Arts regularly assists the Department of Architecture chair and program heads relative to financial issues. Realignment of teaching responsibilities in the Interior Design Program has enabled the Department Multi - Media Supervisor to assume additional technology related responsibilities as his teaching load was reduced. A ful l - time Shop Manager has been hired to supervise the Art + Architecture shop. Initial graduate assistant funding has been increased and additional funds provided for assistantships through the Technology Access Fee. Lack of identity being "lost" within a diverse Department of Art consisting of architecture, interior design, graphic design, fine arts (ceramics, painting, photography, printmaking, sculpture), art education, art foundations, art history, and the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archeology. A ne w Department of Architecture consisting of the Architecture Program and the Interior Design Program was created within the College of Communication and Fine Arts. The Department has established a strong on - campus presence as well as a presence in the comm unity. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 39 This page is left blank intentionally. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 40 Appendix B: The Visiting Team Team Chair, Representing the Academy Diane Y. Ghirardo, Ph.D. 1223 Wilshire Boulevard, #1010 Santa Monica, CA 90403 (3 10) 453 - 0337 (310) 453 - 0177 fax dianeghirardo@yahoo.com Representing the Profession Stephen Parker AIA, LEED  AP President Grimm + Parker Architects 11720 Beltsville Drive, Suite 600 Calve rton, Maryland, 20705 ( 240 ) 603 - 9014 sparker@gparch.com Representing the NAAB Thomas Fowler, IV, AIA, NCARB Director, (CIDS) Collaborative Integrative - Interdisciplinary Digital - Design Studio Architecture Depa rtment California Polytechnic State University One Grand Avenue San Luis Obispo, CA 93407 (805) 756 - 2981 (805) 756 - 1500 fax tfowler@calpoly.edu University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 41 This page is left blank in tentionally. University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 42 Appendix C: The Visit Agenda University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 43 University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 44 IV. Report Signatures Respectfully submitted, University of Memphis Visiting Team Report 20 24 March 2010 45 This page is left blank intentionally.