#http://www.memphis.edu/abroad/study_abroad_ambassadors/
Study Abroad Ambassadors - Study Abroad - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Study Abroad Programs Students J-1 Students Faculty Funding Resources News About Home Study Abroad Study Abroad Ambassadors Study Abroad Ambassadors Study Abroad Ambassadors are students from the University of Memphis who recently studied abroad and want to share insights on their recent experiences. Please feel free to email them with questions regarding study abroad. Kiki Carson Study Abroad Programs: Afro Cuban Culture and History in Havana, Cuba (spring break); Political Science in London and Berlin (summer); Al Akhawayn University in Ifrane, Morocco (semester). Major: Political Science Email: Kcarson2@memphis.edu My favorite thing about my study abroad was experiencing different cultural activities. In Morocco, I had the chance to stay with a Moroccan family and attend a wedding, which was so amazing! Kevin Woodard Study Abroad Programs: Political Science in London and Berlin (summer); Palazzi - Florence University of the Arts in Florence, Italy (semester). Major: Psychology Email: kwodard1@memphis.edu During my semester abroad I was able to meet people from all over the world, tried different cuisines that only that country offered, joined the "Italian Family Club" that allowed me to spend time with an Italian family who opened my eyes to the culture of Italy. Also during my semester abroad, I traveled to multiple cities in Italy and to seven other countries including Germany, France, Belgium, Spain, The Netherlands, Ireland, and the Czech Republic. Courtney Bailey Study Abroad Programs: CEA in Shanghai, China (semester). Major: Teaching English as a Second Language Email: courtneybailey@yahoo.com Chinese culture brings a whole new meaning to food. It is used as a way to bring people together and enjoy each others company. I spent many days just looking forward to trying new and crazy Chinese foods with some of the most incredible friends I made abroad. Jacob Riddle Study Abroad Programs: Meiji University in Tokyo, Japan (academic year) and J.F. Oberlin University in Tokyo, Japan (summer). Major: Computer Engineering, Mathematics, Political Science, Asian Studies International Trade, and Japanese Language. Email: jdrddle@memphis.edu I enjoyed the immersion in Japanese culture. Studying the culture of another country in America can never replace experiencing it first-hand. Kayla Sommerville Study Abroad Program: Medical Spanish and Health Science in San Jose, Costa Rica (semester). Major: Biology Minor: Pre-Health Studies Email: ksmrvlle@memphis.edu During my time in Costa Rica, I grew to love the people. Ticos are generally super friendly and helpful people. I also loved my familia tica (my host family) and my roommates. Additionally, I grew to love Costa Rica itself; it is a beautiful country with so many different types of ecosystems. I loved that I got the chance to travel to different parts of country and to both Nicaragua and Panama without having to pay a lot for the actual traveling. Oh and last but certainly not least, I grew to love gallo pinto, which is a signature tico dish consisting of rice and beans. Ashley Gagnon Study Abroad Program: IFSA-Butler: University of Queensland in Australia (semester). Major: Nursing Minor: Spanish Email: aegagnon@memphis.edu My favorite thing was meeting new people from multiple countries and realizing that we aren't a whole lot different from each other. Immersing myself in a new culture with diverse individuals taught me more about human interaction and the world itself than any textbook could. Log-In Log-In to your application Search Programs Search Study Abroad programs Scholarships Search scholarship opportunities for Study Abroad Contact Us Email, call or schedule appointments Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/3/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .