#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/pdfs/doctoral-comprehensive-exams-policy.pdf
1 HIAD Program Doctoral Comprehensive Exams Policy EFFECTIVE: This policy is effective beginning Fall 2014 and will be in effect until further notice. QUESTIONS: The HIAD doctoral comprehensive exams will consist of three questions: 1. Higher Education 2. Adult Education 3. Research Students in the Higher Education concentration will take the Higher Education and Research comprehensive exams; students in the Adult Education concentration will take the Adult Education and Research comprehensive exams. AVAIL ABILITY: All three Comprehensive Exam Questions will be posted to the HIAD website, along with this policy and the evaluation tool. TIMING: 1. Comprehensive exams will be accepted only during Fall and Spring terms. 2. The student must notify his/her advisor of the term comprehe nsive exams will be submitted. 3. The advisor must submit a request for comprehensive exams to the office of graduate studies to seek approval for the student to take comprehensive exams. SUBMISSION: 1. Students may submit their responses to the comprehensive exams ONLY after the office of Graduate Studies has cleared them for comprehensive exams. 2. Students submit their responses to their advisor as an attachment to an email. 3. Students must be enrolled during the term they ar e submitting the comprehensive exam for review. REVIEW: 1. The advisor can submit the comprehensive exams responses to Turnitin.com. 2. The advisor is the primary reviewer of the comprehensive exams. 2. The advisor can, if desired, arrange for a seco nd reviewer to review portions or the entirety of any student submission. 3. The reviewer(s) will complete the evaluation form which is based on the evaluation tool. ORALS: 1. Advisory Commi ttee. 2. The advisor schedules an oral comprehensive exam meeting. 2 3. At the end of the oral comprehensive exam meeting, the Program Advisory Committee decides if the student has passed or failed the comprehensive exam. 4. The advisor completes the app ropriate form that captures this decision for the Graduate School. 5. The advisor communicates the decision to the student. 6. No comprehensive exam is considered complete until the oral exam has been completed. FAILURE: If the student fails the compre hensive exam, he/she is allowed to retake the exam once. Further information can be found at: SUCCESS: If the student successf ully passes the comprehensive exams, he/she can enroll in dissertation credit hours (LEAD 9000) beginning the following semester. Adopted: [11/11/13 ]