#http://www.memphis.edu/management/faculty/news.php
News &amp; Events - MGMT - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Management Welcome Programs Courses Faculty PhD Students Research FCBE Faculty Welcome Programs Courses Faculty PhD Students Research Contact Us Home MGMT Faculty News &amp; Events News &amp; Events News Michael Nalick (ABD, Texas A&amp;M) will be joining the Department of Management in Fall 2016 as an Assistant Professor of Strategic Management and Entrepreneurship Dr. Pierce and his coauthors had an article accepted for publication in Journal of Educational Psychology Department of Management offers an HR Management Concentration as of Fall 2015 Dr. Davison and her coauthors published an article in Journal of Managerial Issues and had a chapter accepted for publication in an edited book entitled "Social Media in Employee Selection and Recruitment: Theory, Practice, and Current Challenges" Rama Reddy, Dr. Fabian, and Dr. Kedia had their Southern Management Association 2015 paper selected as Best Doctoral Student Paper in the Organization Theory/International Management track Dr. Fabian presented her research at the Strategic Management Society meeting in October in Denver, CO Drs. Kedia and Fabian, along with their PhD students, will present their research at the Southern Management Association meeting in October in St. Petersburg, FL Juanita Trusty, management PhD student, will present her research at the Southern Management Association meeting in October in St. Petersburg, FL. She also completed George Washington University's CIBER Summer Doctoral Institute. Dr. Pierce and his co-authors (includes two former Memphis PhD students) received the Academy of Management's 2015 Robert McDonald Advancement of Organizational Research Methodology Award for their 2009 article published in Organizational Research Methods Drs. Danehower, Mollica, Pierce, Renn, Rubenstein, and Tuberville made presentations at the Academy of Management meeting in August in Vancouver, BC Canada Fair Swuancy, International Business student, received the People's Choice Award for Peer Power Memphis Model Success Coach Drs. Kedia and Fabian, along with their PhD students, published an article in Journal of World Business Dr. Pierce and his coauthors had an article accepted for publication in Personnel Psychology Dr. Pierce and his coauthors published an article in Journal of Applied Psychology Dr. Tuberville Honored as a Super Woman in Business MGMT 2820 Intro to Entrepreneurship Students Make Big with Start-up Ideas Dr. Fabian Published in Journal of International Management Tennessee Arts Commission Invited Dr. Martha Robinson to Serve on Advisory Panel Dr. Tuberville Published in HR Professionals Magazine Events Memphis Institute for Leadership Education (MILE) Program 2015-2016 Schedule of Events International Business Student Organization (IBSO) Fall 2015 Schedule of Events November 6, 2015 : MGMT Research Colloquium Series -- Mike Nalick, Mays Business School, Texas A&amp;M University October 23, 2015 : MGMT Research Colloquium Series -- Orhun Guldiken, Strome College of Business, Old Dominion University September 16, 2015 : SHRM-Memphis student chapter meeting, 12:00-12:15 FCB 202, 12:30-1:30 FCB 271 September 16, October 13, &amp; November 18, 2015 : Dept of Management will host a pizza lunch for its faculty, students, and staff from 11:30-1:30 FCB 202. September 11, 2015 : MGMT Research Colloquium Series -- Dr. Herman Aguinis, Kelley School of Business, Indiana University Faculty Welcome Programs Courses Faculty PhD Students Research Contact Us MGMT News &amp; Events Learn about current events happening in our department! Research Colloquia Keep up with the latest Management academic research in our upcoming seminars. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .