#http://www.memphis.edu/polisci/internships/
Internships - Political Science - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Political Science About Undergraduate Graduate JD/MA Program Internships People Internship Resources Requirements Contact Legislative Representative/Senator Intern Positions Washington Urban Fellows Caissa Public Strategy Home Political Science Internships Requirements for 3 Credit Internships: Must have a 2.0 GPA and have completed 60 credit hours (junior status). Be registered for an internship class and pay tuition. After you have been accepted for an internship email the intern coordinator, Ebony Dawkins and she will issue you a permit for the class. Work 150 hours during the semester. This must be verified by a supervisor and a detailed log with specific times and dates. At the end of your internship, your supervisor will fill out this evaluation form and return it to Ebony Dawkins. You must fill out this evaluation form and return it to Ebony Dawkins. * It is your responsibility to turn these documents in to Professor Dawkins by the last day of the semester to receive credit. * Political Science Internship Opportunities Legislative Internship: Every Spring semester the university sends students several students to Nashville to intern with the state legislature. Students live and work in Nashville where they are assigned to a legislator. Duties generally include attending committee meetings, tracking bills through the calendar, constituent service, etc. This is a great opportunity to view politics first-hand! This is a full-time internship (12 credit hours) and students are paid a small stipend (around $350 weekly) to help defray the costs of living in Nashville. You must have 60 credit hours by the end of the Fall semester to apply for the following spring. Minimum GPA is 2.0. A meeting is generally help in September for students interested in this program. Check this page for the date of the meeting in September. For more information click here: Representative/Senator Intern Positions: Interns working in any of these three offices will handle constituent service, fielding opinions from constituents, research as well as other office duties. To apply for any of these positions send a resume, transcript (unofficial), and writing sample to Ebony Dawkins . Representative Steve Cohen The Clifford Davis/Odell Horton Federal Building 167 North Main Street, Suite 369 Memphis, TN 38103 Representative Stephen Fincher 5384 Poplar Avenue, Suite 410 Memphis, TN 38119 Senator Bob Corker 100 Peabody Place, Suite 1125 Memphis, TN 38103 Washington Center: The University of Memphis awards 3-5 scholarships for a Washington Center internship each semester. See: for more information. This is a highly competitive internship that requires at least a 3.0 GPA. This is a full time internship in Washington, D.C. Look for emails from the Provost's office early in the fall semester for application information. Urban Fellows Program: The UFP is a year-round initiative that offers local college students the opportunity to intern with various divisions of the City of Memphis Government. The program serves primarily to enhance the interaction of area college students with the City, advancing the purpose of getting students to consider employment after graduation. Departments could include Human Resources, Executive Division (Governor's Office), Public Works, Law, and Police. This is an unpaid internship. The enrolled fellows will intern or work with the City of Memphis for ten (10) hours or more per week for one (1) semester. Fellows will also have regularly scheduled mentoring sessions throughout the semester and present a final report on their particular project covered. All fellows may receive college credit for their program participation if this is agreed upon with the educational agency. Interested students should apply online at . You must select "Career Opportunities" and follow the prompts to "Register" to proceed with the Urban Fellows application. Feel free to view the Urban Fellows video on YouTube to hear from past participants. For questions, you may contact Linda Delaney by email . Caissa Public Strategy: Caissa Public Strategy works with non-profit agencies, government entities, and corporations to ensure that they are pursuing the best possible plan for achieving success. Caissa focuses on developing relationships between organizations and their key targets and stakeholders. Caissa conducts research, creates action plans, and solves problems for organizations that are seeking strategic change. The student will learn how to interact with non-profits, government agencies, and legislative bodies on the local, state and federal levels. Intern responsibilities may include but are not limited to: maintaining and creating blog content; researching potential blog topics and content; maintaining Caissa's social media sites; coordinating social media campaigns; working on press releases and earned media pieces; supportive services for everyday tasks; and coordinating volunteer and community outreach for special projects. This is a paid opportunity. Stipends will be commiserate with experience and activities assigned. To apply, students should send resumes and writing samples to Brandy Sims . Internship Resources Requirements Contact Legislative Representative/Senator Intern Positions Washington Urban Fellows Caissa Public Strategy Alumni and Friends Find out how you can support the Department of Political Science. News and Events Read about student and faculty awards and semester events. RSO/Clubs The Department of Political Science is affiliated with several UofM registered student clubs. Contact Main office contact and location information. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .