#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/Univ_college/dance.php
DANCE - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs DANCE Dance The Bachelor in Professional Studies (B.P.S.) with a concentration in Dance prepares dance professionals in the area of performance, choreography, and pedagogy. Students with a strong dance background and those with limited exposure but with the ability and commitment to achieve the requisite level of dance technique will be served by this concentration. Areas of study include modern, ballet, and jazz technique; dance improvisation and composition; dance in the schools and in community settings; dance history; and movement analysis (somatic studies and dance notation). Basic competency in all of these areas is expected. An internship experience is an integral part of the program. Students who wish to teach in the public schools must be accepted into the Teacher Education Program (TEP) according to university requirements. Program Summary A. General Education (35-41 hours ) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. Students who have completed one year of American History in high school are exempted from the six credit-hour History General Education Program requirement; otherwise, students will have to meet the History requirement. B. Coordinated Study a. Core (40 hours) DANC 2101 Dance Improvisation (3 hrs) DANC 2825 Ballet Dance II (minimum 4 hrs) DANC 3101 Dance History (3 hrs) DANC 3201 Dance Movement Analysis (3 hrs) DANC 3829 Advanced Dance Techniques (minimum 6 hrs) DANC 4101 Dance Repertory (3 hrs) DANC 4201 Dance Composition (3 hrs) DANC 4202 Advanced Dance Composition (3 hrs) DANC 4404 Dance Education: Methods &amp; Materials (3 hrs) THEA 3608 Dance Lab (1hr) Dance Techniques to be selected with advisor from the followong (8 hours): DANC 1821 Contemporary Dance I (2) DANC 1825 Ballet Dance I (2) DANC 1331 Tap Dance (2) DANC 1827 Jazz Dance I (2) DANC 2825 Ballet Dance II (2) DANC 2827 Jazz Dance II (2) DANC 3829 Adv. Dance Techniques (3) DANC 3826 Musical Theatre Dance I (2) b. Non-Licensure (12 hours) THEA 2501 Stage Movement (3 hrs) THEA 2511 Intro to Tech Production (3) or THEA 1561 Intro to Design (3) THEA 2531 Performance Fundamentals (3 hrs) THEA 4541 Internship (3 hrs) c. Teacher Licensure Option (26 hours) EDPR 2111 Development Across the Life Span (3 hrs) SPED 2000 Issues of Human Diversity (3 hrs) ICL 3333 Classroom Assessment &amp; Instructional Decision Making (3 hrs) ICL 4914* Residency I Practicum (5 hrs) ICL 4800* Professional Seminar (3 hrs) ICL 4907* Residency II (9 hrs) *TEP (Teacher Education Program) Restricted Courses. Must be admitted to take the course C. College Requirements (9 hours) a. Thematic Studies (6 hrs) Recommended courses for Dance students UNIV 3534 Theatre and Therapy (3 hrs) DANC 4402 Dance Education in Diverse Settings (3 hrs) b. Senior Project (3 hours) UNIV 4995 Senior Project (3 hrs) D. Electives (10-27 hours) Students can select additional DANC courses with approval from advisor. Other electives selected to bring the number of hours to 120 with a minimum of 42 upper division hours. All students seeking initial teacher licensure through the University of Memphis and the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences must be admitted into the Teacher Education Program (TEP). Requirements to be fully admitted to the Teacher Education Program (TEP): Complete at least 45 hours before applying to the TEP. Among those hours the following courses must be passed: ENGL 1010, ENGL 1020, COMM 2381, MATH 1420 or equivalent, SPED 2000 and EDPR 2111.Have a 2.75 Cumulative Grade Point Average.Take and pass all portions of the PRAXIS I PPST (or present evidence of an Enhanced ACT score of 22 or above or a combined score of 1020 or above on the SAT).See the front page of the TEP application for a complete list of requirements. Residency (Student Teaching) Requirements: The Ready2Teach residency requires the commitment of one year. Residency I requires at least two days per week in the assigned Residency classroom. Residency II candidates must be present at their school for the full day and are required to participate in faculty meetings, PTO/PTA meetings, parent teacher conferences, car duty, etc.During Residency I, candidates will be required to attend a minimum of 5 Friday seminars. All students must attend a weekly scheduled professional seminar with Residency II. No other courses may be taken during the Residency Year. Experiential Learning Credit Opportunities Students who have completed college-level learning outside the college classroom are encouraged to seek Experiential Learning Credit (ELC). This potential credit is evaluated by faculty who determine the appropriate amount of awarded credit and is based on the knowledge you have gained from the experience, not just the experience itself. Please visit the University College webpage: for more information. If awarded, ELC may only be used to fulfill elective hours, the required 60 hours from a four-year institution and the required 30 hours from the U of M. College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .