#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/cas/econ.php
Economics - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Economics Economics Department of Economics The Department of Economics is located in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. Economics Major (B.A.) Program objectives can be found in the Business Economics major in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics section. A. University General Education Program (41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. B. College and Degree (B.A.) Requirements (12-16 hours) The College and Bachelor of Arts requirements are in addition to the University General Education Program requirements. C. The Major (30 hours) Completion of 30 semester hours, including ECON 2010, 2020, 3310, 3320, and 18 additional upper division semester hours in economics courses as approved by the department advisor. D. Electives Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120. Economics Minor To receive a minor in Economics, a student is required to take 18 credit hours, (six courses) in economics. Six of those hours (two courses) must be ECON 2010 and ECON 2020. Of the remaining 12 hours (four courses), all of them must be upper-division courses in economics, i.e., 3000-level or 4000-level courses. One of those courses must be either Microeconomic Theory (ECON 3310) or Macroeconomic Theory (ECON 3320). The other three courses (nine hours) are upper-division elective courses. E. Honors Program To be considered eligible for the Honors Degree Program in Economics, the student must: 1. Maintain a minimum grade of B in honors sections of both ECON 2010 (Introduction to Macroeconomics) and ECON 2020 (Introduction to Microeconomics). 2. Obtain the recommendation of a faculty member in the Department of Economics to the Department Honors Committee. Once accepted to the Honors Degree Program in Economics, the student must 1. Maintain an average GPA of 3.25 in all economics courses to continue in the program. 2. Have a minimum GPA of 3.5 in all economics courses at graduation. 3. Enroll in ECON 3310 (Microeconomic Theory) and ECON 3320 (Macroeconomic Theory) with an honors contract. Those contracts will be discussed with and approved by the faculty member teaching each course. 4. Write an honors thesis. This begins with finding a faculty advisor for the thesis project, discussing a thesis topic, then writing the thesis. The honors thesis typically takes one semester to complete, although work on it can begin early. When working on the honors thesis, the student will enroll in a section of ECON 4996 (Honors Thesis in Economics) for up to one semester. The completed thesis will be graded by the faculty advisor. Upon successfully completing all these requirements, the student will be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having their degree conferred "With Honors in Economics." Moreover the student's diploma and the record at the University of Memphis will reflect this accomplishment. Accelerated B.A./M.A. Program in Economics This program allows outstanding undergraduates to begin the coursework for the Master of Arts in Economics during their senior year. Students are encouraged to begin planning to enter the Accelerated B.A./M.A. program early in their undergraduate career, in consultation with their advisor in the Department of Economics. Working with the undergraduate and graduate academic coordinators, undergraduates selected into this program begin a carefully tailored course of study which will allow them to complete their B.A. degree while they also begin the coursework toward their M.A. To apply, students must have a minimum 3.25 grade point average, and must submit two reference letters and a copy of their transcript to the Economics department. Each applicant will complete an interview with the graduate academic coordinator in economics. Students must also apply to the Graduate School for the accelerated B.A./M.A. program, which allows them to take graduate courses in economics. To continue in the program past the B.A., students must apply for full admission into the Graduate School and into the Economics department's M.A. program. Only in ABM programs, up to 9 hours of graduate course work may be applied to both the undergraduate and graduate programs. However, any graduate coursework will not apply to undergraduate GPA. Typical 4-Year Economics Sequence Freshman Year ENGL 1010 3 ENGL 1020 3 MATH* 3-4 Nat. Sci./Math/B.A. 3-4 Humanities/Fine Arts* 3 Fine Arts* 3 Elective 3 ECON 2010 3 Foreign Language/B.A. 3 Foreign Language/B.A. 3 Semester Totals 15-16 hrs 15-16 hrs Sophomore Year ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 History* 3 Natural Science* 4 Elective 3 Elective 3 Natural Science* 4 ECON 2020 3 Elective 3 History* 3 COMM 2381 3 Semester Totals 16 hrs 16 hrs Junior Year Humanities/B.A. 3 UD elective 3 UD elective 3 UD elective 3 UD elective 3 Elective 3 UD ECON elective 3 ECON 3320 3 ECON 3310 3 UD ECON elective 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 15 hrs Senior Year Elective 3 UD ECON 3 UD ECON 3 UD ECON 3 UD ECON 3 UD Elective 3 Elective 3 Elective 4 Elective 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 13 hrs Total Hours: 120-122 Total Hours Required for Graduation: 120 *Must satisfy University General Education Program Requirement College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .