#http://www.memphis.edu/mediaroom/releases/oct15/hooksbookaward.php
Hooks Book Award - Media Room - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UofM Media Room Publications Resources This Week UofM Magazine News Releases Contact News Releases Latest News Releases October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 News Releases Archive 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Home Media Room News Releases Hooks Book Award UofM's Hooks Institute Selects Stokely: A Life as 2014 National Book Award Winner October 1, 2015 - The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change at the University of Memphis has selected Stokely: A Life by Peniel E. Joseph as the winner of its National Book Award for 2014. Honorable mention goes to A World More Concrete: Real Estate and The Remaking of Jim Crow South Florida by N.D. B. Connolly. The award recognizes publications that best advance an understanding of the American civil rights movement and its legacy. Joseph's carefully researched and beautifully written biography of Stokely Carmichael captures his contributions to the civil rights movement. This book places Carmichael, a political strategist, civil rights activist and intellectual and community organizer who became a Black Panther, alongside Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and Malcolm X as part of a revolutionary triumvirate who dominated the world stage of the 1960s. Carmichael (Kwame Ture) was the only one of the three who lived to see the age of 40. He was a child of Caribbean immigrants, educated at one of the best public high schools in New York and Howard University, and mentored by King and Fannie Lou Hamer. He marched with King, campaigning for voting rights, and then founded the first Black Panther Party in Mississippi. Acknowledging that Carmichael's life and legacy have faded in collective memory, Joseph describes his biography as an act of recovery of an under-told story that enriches the understanding of the civil rights movement. The Hooks Institute received more than 20 nominations for the Book Award, primarily from university presses across the United States. In addition to Stokely (Basic Civitas), the other four finalists were: N.D. B. Connolly, A World More Concrete: Real Estate and The Remaking of Jim Crow South Florida (University of Chicago Press); Jeffrey Helgeson, Crucibles of Black Empowerment: Chicago's Neighborhood Politics From the New Deal to Harold Washington (The University of Chicago Press); Jessica Gordon Nembhard, Collective Courage: A History of African American Cooperative Economic Thought and Practice (Penn State University Press); and John D. Skrentny, After Civil Rights: Racial Realism in the New American Workplace (Princeton University Press). The five judges were Dr. Aram Goudsouzian, professor and chair of history at the University of Memphis, Dr. Catherine Johnson, librarian at LeMoyne-Owen College, Dr. Charles McKinney, associate professor of history at Rhodes College; Dr. Ladrica Menson-Furr, associate professor of English and director of African and African-American Studies at the UofM; and Dr. Wanda Rushing, professor of sociology at the UofM. On Feb. 11, 2016, Peniel E. Joseph will speak at the University of Memphis as part of the Hooks Institute Lecture Series. Visit for updates on this lecture. For consideration of the 2015 National Book Award, one copy of the book should be submitted, postmarked by Dec. 1, to National Book Award Nomination, Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change, 107 Scates Hall, University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152-3530. In 1996, University of Memphis officials received approval from the Tennessee Board of Regents to create the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change in the College of Arts &amp; Sciences. The mission of the Institute is teaching, studying, and promoting civil rights and social change. The Hooks Institute archives include Hooks' personal papers, which are housed in the Mississippi Valley Collection in the University's McWherter Library. Contact: Daphene R. McFerren or Wanda Rushing 901.678.3974 News Releases Latest News Releases October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 News Releases Archive 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Music Performance Calendar Find out where the music is Art Museum Learn about the latest exhibits Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/2/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .