#http://www.memphis.edu/aleks/interpret/
Interpret Your Results - ALEKS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Assessment and Learning in Knowledge Spaces About Take Exam Interpret Your Results Learning Module Home ALEKS Interpret Your Results Understanding the pie chart. Your Score on the ALEKS Assessment Immediately after completing the ALEKS Assessment, you will be shown a pie chart which indicates your placement result score on the ALEKS Assessment. The percentage score above the pie chart area is your ALEKS score (Placement Result: 93%). You can log back in to the ALEKS math placement website to view the pie chart (View Previous Results) at a later time. Clicking on the subject headings will allow you to view topics you are ready to learn. What Math Course am I Eligible to Take? After you have completed the ALEKS Assessment, check with your advisor regarding the appropriate course for your major. Please refer to the chart below for course placement. ALEKS Score Courses That Can Be Taken Based on Major 0 - 13 Students must complete the ALEKS learning module. A minimum score of 14 is required to enroll in a math course at the University of Memphis. 14 - 29 MATH 1100 Combo MATH 1420 Combo 30 - 45 MATH 1710 Combo MATH 1420 46 - 60 MATH 1710 MATH 1530 MATH 1480 61 - 75 MATH 1720 MATH 1730 MATH 1830 76 and above MATH 1910 Have you earned the minimum score needed to register for your desired course? If so, determine your next step from the list below: If you are an incoming student who has not yet attended New Student Orientation, you do not need to take any additional steps. Your advisor will assist you with your math course selection during orientation. If you are a returning student, you should log into myMemphis and enroll in your math course for the upcoming semester. If you need any assistance with your math course selection, please contact your academic advisor. Do you wish to retake the ALEKS Assessment to try to improve your score? You must wait 48 hours after your initial placement assessment before attempting another. There is generally no benefit to re-taking the assessment immediately after completing a prior attempt. Unlike the SAT or ACT, you cannot improve your results by simply re-taking the assessment without spending time in the Prep and Learning Module to refresh material that you may have forgotten or to learn new material. What is the ALEKS Prep and Learning Module? After the assessment, a targeted Prep and Learning Module is available for you to review and learn material, and to improve placement and eventual course outcomes. Students must begin the Learning Module within 6 months of completing the initial ALEKS assessment. How long can I use the ALEKS Prep and Learning Module? Once students begin the Prep and Learning Module, they may use it for up to 6 months. Students using the learning module should check the email account provided to ALEKS for reminders about the amount of time remaining in the learning module. Before the third ALEKS assessment, students must work in the Learning Module for 3 hours. Between the third and fourth assessment, students must work in the Learning Module for at least 3 hours. After the fourth assessment, students must work at least 3 hours in the learning module before they can take the fifth assessment. Students who do not complete 3 hours in the learning module after the second, third, or fourth assessment will not be able to take the next one. Why would I use the ALEKS Prep and Learning Module? If you do not place into the desired math course, the Prep and Learning Module may assist you in reaching the required minimum score for placement into the course. Students will need to retake the ALEKS assessment after working in the Prep and Learning Module in order to attempt to place higher. Progress in the Prep and Learning Module does not automatically result in a new placement. All students are strongly encouraged to spend several hours using the ALEKS Prep and Learning Module. Even if you have achieved placement in your desired course, time spent in ALEKS will better prepare you for your upcoming course and ultimately lead to better grades. Technical Support How do I get technical support for ALEKS? Disability Related Services Who to contact for accomodations. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .