#http://www.memphis.edu/commencement/apply/name-changes.php
Name Changes - Commencement Office - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Commencement Office Apply to Graduate Graduates Accommodations Diplomas Guests Faculty Apply to Graduate Prerequisite to Apply to Graduate Deadlines Name Changes Cap and Gown Order Diploma Mailing Address FAQs Home Commencement Office Apply to Graduate Name Changes Name Changes Your official name with the University is the name that will be reflected on your diploma and in the program. Any name change completed after our deadline, will NOT be updated on your diploma. All students MUST comply by the deadline to make program/diploma name changes. Any diplomas with name changes after the deadline, will be considered a reorder and the student must cover the cost. These names must match. If you want to change your name on your diploma or in the program, you must do so by completing the Name Change Form with the Registrar's Office. See detailed instruction below to ensure your name is exactly the way you want it to be. The only acceptable change that does not require a Name Change Form is if your full middle name is in the University system and you only want your middle initial. In this case, the only thing you have to do is let us know. Process to change my name Changing your name is an easy process. However, you need to ensure you communicate with the Commencement Office, after completing the name change form with the Registrar's Office. 1. Look at your name in myMemphis and ensure all of your name is there. 2. If your name is not correct in myMemphis, fax the Name Change Form with the Registrar's Office. -You may also email Averill Conway at arconway@memphis.edu , and you can take a photograph the form and the document, scan them and email or fax them. -The form needs an actual signature and a supporting document . See the form for acceptable documents. 3. Immediately contact Commencement at commencement@memphis.edu and provide your Full Name, Unumber, Major/College/School and email address. 4. Continue to work with Commencement and to ensure your name will be updated in the Commencement program and on your diploma. The deadline to complete name changes is 4 weeks prior to your Commencement day. We recommend changing your name as early as possible to ensure the program and diploma get changed by final proofing deadlines. Honoring the deadline is very important to the process. Any name change completed after the deadline/diplomas are ordered will be considered a REORDER and the cost will be covered by the student/graduate. Apply to Graduate Prerequisite to Apply to Graduate Deadlines Name Changes Cap and Gown Order Diploma Mailing Address FAQs Contact Us Got questions? Let us know how we may assist you. Commencement Attendance Form Will you be attending Commencement? Inform us! News Keep up with Commencement related information. Commencement Live Can't attend Commencement? Watch it live! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .