#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/edu/lead.php
Leadership - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Leadership Leadership LARRY McNEAL, PhD Chair and Coordinator of Graduate Studies Room 123, Ball Hall 901.678.2369 E-mail: lmcneal1@memphis.edu I. Master of Science (MS) in Leadership and Policy Studies: The Department offers the Master of Science degree in Leadership and Policy Studies with concentrations in (1) School Administration and Supervision—a licensing program, (2) Leadership, and (3) Student Personnel. A. Program Admission Each applicant must submit a completed application packet to the University Graduate School that includes: A completed admissions application An official report of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) score. GRE is required for master's degree even in cases where applicant already has one master's degree. Official transcripts for all prior undergraduate and graduate courses. In addition, each applicant to the M.S. School Administration and Supervision (SAS) must submit a portfolio to the Department of Leadership that includes: Letter of application Professional resume Three letters of professional recommendation on letterhead A brief statement of professional goals Evidence of current teacher certification Examples of students' work A personal interview preceded by a writing sample will be scheduled with each applicant and an admission decision will be made following the personal interview. The decision will be based on a holistic profile that includes, but is not limited to, information contained in the completed application packet described above and obtained during the personal interview. Interested applicants are required to contact the departmental office to obtain admission forms and a more complete statement of admission guidelines and requirements for a Tennessee administrative license. All students seeking licensure must take the appropriate state-required examination at the conclusion of their program. Deadline for submission of all application material is the 3rd Friday in February for the summer semester, the 3rd Friday in June for the fall semester, and the 3rd Friday in September for the spring semester. In addition to #1 above, each applicant to the M.S. in Leadership or M.S. in Student Personnel must submit: Letter of application Professional resume Three letters of professional recommendation on letterhead Brief statement of professional goals The admission decision will be based on a holistic profile that includes, but is not limited to, information contained in the completed application packet described above. Interested applicants are required to contact the departmental office to obtain admission forms and a more complete statement of admission guidelines. Deadline for submission of all application material for M.S. Leadership concentration and M.S. Student Personnel concentration is April 1 for summer and fall semesters, and November 1 for spring semester. Students completing the MS or EdD in Leadership and Policy Studies will: (1) have developed their skills in leadership, change, policy formulation, the student's program and stewardship of a vision of effectiveness that is shared by others in the organization; (2) have had opportunities to analyze data and its relationship to organizational effectiveness; (3) have concentrated their studies in (a) School Administration and Supervision, (b) Leadership, or (c) Student Personnel (MS only); and (4) have concentrated their studies in an area of specialization. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. B. Program Requirements A minimum of 36 semester hours is required of all students to obtain the master’s degree. Students will take 9 hours of the departmental core: LEAD 7000, LEAD 7100, and EDPR 7521; and 27 other hours of approved courses in their concentration. The following policies in the Department of Leadership are exceptions to the policies of the Graduate School: A maximum of six (6) hours of transfer credit can be counted toward the concentration in School Administration and Supervision. A maximum of six (6) hours of course work can be validated in the concentration in School Administration and Supervision. Concentrations and Courses: School Administration and Supervision: LDPS 7110, 7120, 7131, 7140, 7141, 7150, 7330; LEAD 7004, 7210 Leadership: A minimum of 27 semester hours, including LEAD 7500, 7100, 5 additional departmental courses, and a portfolio. A minimum of B must be earned in all courses on the program of study. Administration/Supervision Licensure Program: The department maintains a program leading to licensure for students holding an appropriate master’s degree Student Personnel: A minimum of 27 semester hours, including LEAD 7500; HIAD 7060, 7410, 7440, 7442, 7443, 7444; 2 additional courses; and a portfolio. A minimum of B must be earned in all courses on the program of study. II. Doctor of Education (EdD) Degree Program A. Program Admission Each applicant must submit a completed application packet to the University Graduate School that includes: A completed admissions application. An official report of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) score. Official transcripts for all prior undergraduate and graduate courses. In addition, each applicant to the Ed.D. must submit a portfolio to the Department of Leadership that includes: Letter of application Professional resume Three letters of professional recommendation on letterhead A brief statement of professional goals A personal interview preceded by a writing sample will be scheduled with each applicant and admission decision will be made following the personal interview. The decision will be based on a holistic profile that includes, but is not limited to information contained in the completed application packet described above and obtained during the personal interview. Interested applicants are required to contact the departmental office to obtain admission forms and a more complete statement of admission guidelines. Deadline for submission of all application material is the 3rd Friday in February for the summer semester, the 3rd Friday in June for the fall semester, and the 3rd Friday in September for the spring semester. B. Program Requirements A minimum of 54 semester hours beyond the master’s degree is required of all students. Fifteen hours must be taken in the departmental core: LEAD 8001, 8002, 8003, EDPR 8541 and 8542; 9 hours of dissertation; and 30 additional hours. Doctoral programs are not intended for basic administrative certification. Students wishing certification through this program must complete additional course work approximating the requirements in the Certification program noted above. Concentrations and Courses: Educational Leadership: LDPS 8121, 8132, and 8181, and 21 hours approved by the student’s advisory committee. Policy Studies: LDPS 8305, 8310, and 8350, and 21 hours approved by the student’s advisory committee. III. Doctor of Education (EdD) in Higher Education and Adult Education Program objectives are: (1) development of skills in leadership, higher education or adult education, policy formulation, implementation, and evaluation; (2) development of research skills such as data and the relationship to organizational effectiveness; and (3) knowledge and understanding within a concentration area. A. Program Admission Each applicant must submit a completed application packet to the Graduate School that includes: A completed admissions application An official report of Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores Official transcripts for all prior undergraduate and graduate courses In addition, each applicant must submit the following to the Department of Leadership: A professional resume A two-three page statement of academic and professional goals Three letters of recommendation The admission committee may request a personal interview. The admission decision will be based on a holistic profile that includes, but is not limited to, information contained in the completed application packet described above and obtained during the personal interview. Interested applicants are encouraged to contact the departmental office to obtain admission forms and a more completed statement of admission guidelines for the higher and adult education program. Deadline for submission of all application material is April 1 for the summer and fall semesters, and November 1 for the spring semester. B. Program Requirements A minimum of 54 semester hours beyond the master’s degree, including the core requirements of LEAD 8001, 8003, 8500, HIAD 8412, 8415, 8403, EDPR 8541, 8542, and 1 additional research methods course approved by the advisor; 9 hours of dissertation; and 18 hours approved in the concentration. Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write the dissertation. Concentrations Higher Education: HIAD 8401, 8420, 8422, 8541, and 6 elective hours approved by the student’s advisory committee. Adult Education: HIAD 8510, 8541, 8542, and 9 elective hours approved by the student’s advisory committee. The following policies in the Department of Leadership are exceptions to the policies of the Graduate School: Graduate students must complete the doctoral program within ten (10) calendar years. A maximum of twelve (12) hours of transfer credit/credits earned as nondegree can be counted toward the degree. A minimum of B must be earned in all courses as indicated on the program of study for HIAD doctoral programs. IV. Certificate in Community College Teaching and Leadership The Department of Leadership offers a certificate for individuals interested in either a teaching or an administrative career in a community college setting. Consisting of 15-18 hours of course work, this program can be applied to or taken simultaneously with a Master of Science degree in Leadership, Student Personnel Services, or a Doctor of Education degree in Higher and Adult Education. Students not pursuing a degree may apply for admission to the Graduate School as certificate seeking. For more information call 901.678.3531. Click here to view corresponding gainful employment data. A. Program Admission: Students already enrolled in a graduate degree seeking program at The University of Memphis must contact the office of Graduate Admissions to request a program status change to pursue the Certificate in Community College Teaching and Leadership. Students must also apply to the Department of Leadership (Higher and Adult Education) to be considered for admission to the certificate program (see below). Students who are only applying to the Certificate program must apply to the Graduate School as a Graduate Certificate student. All students interested in the Community College Teaching and Leadership Certificate must undergo departmental review for admission. The following items must be provided to the Department of Leadership in addition to applying to the Graduate School: Transcripts from your graduate degree or undergraduate degree if a graduate degree has not been earned. Transcripts are not required if your degree was earned from the University of Memphis. Three letters of recommendation; A statement of academic and professional goals detailing how this program will advance your career plans. All departmental materials must be sent to hiad@memphis.edu or delivered to the address below: The HIAD Admissions Committee The University of Memphis Department of Leadership 311 Browning Hall Memphis, TN 38152 Departmental application deadlines are November 1 for the spring term and April 1 for the summer and fall terms. All materials must be received by the deadline to be considered. B. Program Requirements: HIAD 7411-8411, Community Colleges HIAD 7511-8511, Administration and Governance in the Community College HIAD 7541-8541, College Teaching HIAD 8415, IT Trends and Issues in Higher Education LEAD 7500-8500, Adult Learning and Leadership HIAD 7060-8060, Internship in Higher and Adult Education (may be waived for those with broad experience in community college teaching or administration) A minimum of "B" must be earned in all courses included in the Community College Certificate program. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .