#http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/people/faculty/jgmurphy.php
James G. Murphy, Ph.D. - Department of Psychology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research Resources People Faculty Frank Andrasik Karen Linville Baker J. Gayle Beck Kristoffer S. Berlin Jeffrey S. Berman Cheryl Bowers Jason L. G. Braasch Robert Cohen Melloni N. Cook William O. Dwyer Thomas K. Fagan Randy G. Floyd Arthur C. Graesser David A. Houston Kathryn H. Howell Xiangen Hu Stephanie Huette Xu Jiang Roger J. Kreuz Deranda Lester Brook A. Marcks Meghan McDevitt-Murphy Elizabeth B. Meisinger Andrew W. Meyers James G. Murphy Robert A. Neimeyer Andrew M. Olney Philip I. Pavlik Jr. Leslie A. Robinson M. David Rudd Helen J. K. Sable Idia B. Thurston James P. Whelan William H. Zachry Staff Staff Personnel Home Department of Psychology People James G. Murphy, Ph.D. James G. Murphy, Ph.D. Professor, Director of Clinical Training Phone 901.678.2630 Email jgmurphy@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2579 Office Psychology Building, Room 348 Office Hours Contact Website CV Google Scholar Education Ph.D., Auburn University M.S., Auburn University B.A., Seton Hall University Research Interests Addictive and Health Risk Behaviors Behavioral Economic and Decision Making Processes Related to Addiction, and Addictive Behavior Change Brief Interventions with Young Adult Populations including College Students and Military Veterans Mechanisms of Health and Addictive Behavior Change Selected Recent Publications (* denotes a mentored student author) Murphy, J. G., *Dennhardt, A. A., *Skidmore, J. R., Borsari, B., Barnett, N. P., Colby, S. M. &amp; Martens, M. P. (2012). A randomized controlled trial of a behavioral economic supplement to brief motivational interventions for college drinking. Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology, 80, 876-886. doi:10.1037/a0028763 *Dennhardt, A. A., &amp; Murphy, J. G. (2013). Prevention and treatment of college student drug use: A review of the literature. Addictive Behaviors, 38, 2607-2618. Bickel, W., Johnson, M., Koffarnus, M. MacKillop, J., Murphy, J. G. (2014). The behavioral economics of substance use disorders: Reinforcement pathologies and their repair. Annual Review of Clinical Psychology, 10, 20.1-20.37. doi:10.1146/annurev-clinpsy-032813-153724 McDevitt-Murphy, M. E., Murphy, J. G., *Williams, J. L., *Monahan, C. J., *Bracken-Minor, K. L., &amp; *Fields, J. A. (2014). Randomized controlled trial of two brief alcohol interventions for oef/oif veterans. Journal Of Consulting And Clinical Psychology, doi:10.1037/a0036714 *Buscemi, J., Murphy, J. G., Berlin, K.S., &amp; Raynor, H.A. (2014). A behavioral economic analysis of changes in food-related and food-free reinforcement during weight loss treatment. Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology, 82 (4). 659-669 doi:10.1037/a0036376 *Skidmore, J. R., Murphy, J. G. &amp; Martens, M. P. (2014). Behavioral economic measures of alcohol reward value as problem severity indicators in college students. Experimental and Clinical Psychopharmacology, 22 (3), 198-210. doi: 10.1037/a0036490 *Teeters, J. B., *Pickover, A., M., *Dennhardt, A. A., Martens, M. P, &amp; Murphy, J. G. (2014). Alcohol demand is associated with driving after drinking among college student binge drinkers. Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Research, 38 (7), 2066-2072. doi:10.1111/acer.12448 *Meshesha, L. Z., *Dennhardt, A. D., &amp; Murphy, J. G. (2015). Polysubstance Use is Associated with Deficits in Substance-Free Reinforcement in College Students. Journal of Studies on Alcohol and Drugs, 76 (1), 106-116. doi:10.15288/jsad.76.1.106 *Dennhardt, A. D. *Yurasek, A, A,, &amp; Murphy, J. G. (2015). Change in delay discounting and substance reward value following a brief alcohol and drug use intervention. Journal of the Experimental Analysis of Behavior, 103 (1), 125-140. doi:10.1002/jeab.121 *Teeters, J. B. &amp; Murphy, J. G. (2015). The behavioral economics of driving after drinking among college drinkers. Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Research, 39, 896-904. doi:10.1111/acer.12695 *Teeters, J. B., Borsari, B., Martens, M. P., Murphy, J. G. (in press). Brief motivational interventions are associated with reductions in alcohol-impaired driving among college drinkers. Journal of Studies on Alcohol and Drugs. *Tripp, J., Meshesha, L. Z., Pickover, A. M., Teeters, J., McDevitt-Murphy, &amp; Murphy, J. G. (in press). PTSD Status Predicts Alcohol Related Consequences, Alcohol Demand, and Drug Use in College Students. Experimental and Clinical Psychopharmacology. Murphy, J. G., *Dennhardt, A. D., *Yurasek, A. M., *Skidmore, J. R., Martens, M. P., MacKillop, J. &amp; McDevitt-Murphy, M. E. (2015). Behavioral economic predictors of brief alcohol intervention outcomes. Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology. *Yurasek, A.M., *Dennhardt, A. A., &amp; Murphy, J. G. (in press). A randomized controlled trial of a behavioral economic intervention for alcohol and marijuana use. Experimental and Clinical Psychopharmacology. *Pickover, A. M., Correia, C., Messina, B., Garza, K. B. &amp; Murphy, J. G. A behavioral economic measure of prescription drug use severity among college substance users. (accepted for publication pending revisions). Experimental and Clinical Psychopharmacology. People Faculty Frank Andrasik Karen Linville Baker J. Gayle Beck Kristoffer S. Berlin Jeffrey S. Berman Cheryl Bowers Jason L. G. Braasch Robert Cohen Melloni N. Cook William O. Dwyer Thomas K. Fagan Randy G. Floyd Arthur C. Graesser David A. Houston Kathryn H. Howell Xiangen Hu Stephanie Huette Xu Jiang Roger J. Kreuz Deranda Lester Brook A. Marcks Meghan McDevitt-Murphy Elizabeth B. Meisinger Andrew W. Meyers James G. Murphy Robert A. Neimeyer Andrew M. Olney Philip I. Pavlik Jr. Leslie A. Robinson M. David Rudd Helen J. K. Sable Idia B. Thurston James P. Whelan William H. Zachry Staff Staff Personnel Psychology Graduate Programs Application Click on link to Apply to the Department of Psychology Graduate Program The Psychological Services Center PSC provides general outpatient psychotherapeutic and psychological assessment services to individuals and families Teaching Take-Out This website is a resource for busy teachers who want to enrich their classes while preserving the time they need for research and other important professional activities. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/29/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .