#http://www.memphis.edu/bursar/fees/installment.php
Installment Payment Plan - Bursar's Office - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Bursar's Office Staff Directory Fees Calendars Students Parents Campus Card Fees Fee Charts Fee Payment Policies Deadlines, Refunds &amp; Important Dates Fee Payment Methods Installment Payment Plan Explanation of Fees Financial Assistance/ Sponsorships General Info Fee Discounts &amp; Waivers Fee Adjustment (Refund) Policy Home Bursar's Office Fees Installment Payment Plan Installment Payment Plan The Installment Payment Plan (IPP) is offered for the fall and spring terms to qualified students to help satisfy payment requirements by the appropriate fee payment deadline. Registration is subject to deletion and/or a $100 late payment fee, if fee payment requirements for enrollment fees are not satisfied by the appropriate fee payment deadline listed in the Bursar Calendar. IPP is reserved for students in good financial standing with the University. The IPP is available for Fall and Spring terms only. Regulations of the Tennessee Board of Regents prevent the University from offering an IPP for summer terms, or other short terms. One installment plan will include all unpaid tuition, Dining Dollars and/or housing charges. An initial down payment of 50% of the student's balance is required after all financial aid (grants and student loans), scholarship, and/or third party assistance award amounts have been applied. The initial down payment and the enrollment fee of $50 is due when signing up for the installment plan on TigerXpress . The IPP enrollment fee is not refundable, regardless of when your financial aid or other payments are applied to your account. If housing charges are included in the plan, an additional enrollment fee of $40 will be assessed approximately 30 days after classes begin. If both tuition and housing are in the plan, the total enrollment fees will be $90. Enrollment in the IPP is not automatic. You must enroll online through TigerXpress . Follow these steps to sign up for the IPP: Log in to the myMemphis Portal with your username and password. Click on the Account$ tab. Click on Sign up for Installment Payment Plan in the Bursar – Fees, Payments, Disbursements &amp; Refunds channel. This will take you into the TigerXpress system. Go to Payment Plans and click the Enroll Now button. Follow all instructions and prompts. Students may pay the full installment amount due (per term) online. If the student wishes to make a partial payment above the minimum down payment, they must come to the cashier windows. IPP enrollment is available through the late registration fee payment deadline at the beginning of the Fall and Spring terms. Please refer to the Bursar's Office Calendar for specific dates. The remaining fee balance is due in two separate installments: October 1 and November 1 in the Fall semester; March 1 and April 1 in the Spring semester. Students remain responsible for the installment payments by the appropriate deadline, even if they do not receive or do not open their online fee invoice on TigerXpress. A $25 Late Payment Fee will be assessed on each installment, for both tuition/Dining Dollars ($25 per deadline) and housing ($25 per deadline), that is not received by the University on or before the due date. If all installment payments are late, the maximum amount for late IPP fees per semester is $100. Before enrolling in the IPP, students will be required to read and accept terms of the plan on TigerXpress. Students who drop or withdraw from classes will still have a balance due under the IPP. Fees are adjusted based on the drop or withdrawal date. A refund would only be issued to the student if the newly adjusted amount of fees is less than the amount that has been paid by the student. Unpaid installment amounts will cause holds to be placed on registering for the next term, viewing/receiving grades for current or future terms, or receiving transcripts/diplomas. The IPP is not available for students who were deleted for non-payment and have subsequently been approved for reinstatement or who are registered late by exception. The University reserves the right to deny students the privilege of using the IPP. If you have any questions regarding the Installment Payment Plan, please contact the Bursar's Office at 901.678.2712. Fees Fee Charts Fee Payment Policies Deadlines, Refunds &amp; Important Dates Fee Payment Methods Installment Payment Plan Explanation of Fees Financial Assistance/ Sponsorships General Info Fee Discounts &amp; Waivers Fee Adjustment (Refund) Policy TigerXpress View your statements and pay fees online in TigerXpress. Tuition Estimator How much will your courses cost? Get an estimate online! Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the U of M Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/8/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .