#http://www.memphis.edu/counseling/pdfs/internbrochure.pdf
Welcome Dear Internship Applicant, Thank you for your interest in our APA-accredited doctoral internship training program at the University of Memphis . The internship at is a 2000 hour, 12-month training program. We use the APPIC Internship Matching Program for selection. The internship is for the calendar year August 19 of this year to August 18 of the following year. We encourage you to explore our web page to gather further information about our training program. The staff represents a wide range of theoretical orientations, including psychodynamic, systemic, developmental, integrative, feminist, cognitive-behavioral, and interpersonal approaches. The training staff provides a safe and caring atmosphere while exposing interns to the variety of roles and experiences typical of university counseling center psychologists. Multiple individual and group therapy rooms equipped with one-way mirrors and digital recording equipment are available for trainees. Each intern has a private office with window, equipped with digital recording equipment, a personal computer, also used to review digital recordings of client sessions , and printer. Interns have access to the university mainframe, university electronic mail, and the university library system. Our internship program is fully accredited by the American Psychology Association. Questions Office of Program Consultation and Accreditation American Psychological Association 750 1 st Street, NE, Washington, DC 20002 Phone: (202) 336-5979 / E-mail: apaaccred@apa.org Web: We are very committed to training and are very proud of the internship program as it has evolved over its 20 year history. We would like to provide you with as much information as possible to assist in your decision-making process. I will be more than happy to answer any of your questions about our training program. You may reach me by email or please feel free to call me at (901) 678- . You are also invited to contact any of our staff or current interns. Again, thank you very much for your interest in our training program! I look forward to receiving your application. Sincerely, , Ph.D. Training Director Division of Student Affairs 211 Wilder Tower Memphis, Tennessee 38152 -3520 Office: 901.678.206 8 Fax: 901.678. 4895 THE INTERNSHIP SETTING The University of Memphis serves almost 23,000 students who are enrolled in six colleges and five graduate schools offering 250 fields of study . disciplines are available at the U of M., including a Specialist degree in education and a Juris Doctor (law degree). There are over 800 faculty members of whom more than 73 per cent hold doctorates. There are five Centers of Excellence and 25 Endowed Chairs of Excellence. The ethnically diverse student body of this largely urban commuter campus is comprised of 38 per cent traditional-aged students, 40 per cent African American students, 62 per cent adults over the age of twenty-two, and international students from 50 different countries. The campus is centrally located in a residential area of Memphis with shopping, entertainment, restaurants, and recreation easily accessible. Located on the banks of the Mississippi and the largest metropolitan area in the Mid-South, Memphis is a growing city with a culturally diverse population of over 900,000. Compared with cities across the country in cost of living surveys, Memphis consistently ranks below the national average. The city zoo is outstanding, housing pandas on loan from China and many other exotic animals. Seasonal craft and art shows draw participants from across the country. Cultural amenities include a symphony orchestra and chorus, many theatres, galleries and the Brooks Museum of Art. Camping and outdoor recreational facilities are plentiful and easily accessible. The NBA basketball team, the Memphis Grizzlies, plays at the FedEx Forum Arena, downtown, and the University of Memphis Tigers play home games at the Forum. Memphis is distinguished for its excellent transportation, distribution, and communication networks. Memphis is a primary medical, research, and education center. Memphis is also known for its musical heritage. The city's Blues heritage is exemplified by the renovation of Beale Street, the Gibson Guitar Factory and the Rock and Roll memorabilia preserved at Elvis Presley's home Graceland . For additional information about the campus and the city, access the University of Memphis' Visitor information page at . A Tennessee Board of Regents Institution An Equal Opportunity -Affirmative Action University PHILOSOPHY, GOALS AND OBJECTIVES The philosophy of the Internship Program is that psychologists should be trained as generalists who are capable of functioning in a wide variety of settings. Psychologists are trained to provide counseling with a diverse population, dealing with an assortment of problems and concerns. The primary goal of this program is to prepare interns in a variety of functions required by generalist psychologists and secondly, to provide interns with an understanding of and experience in the operations of a comprehensive university counseling center. Clinical or counseling psychology students whose career objectives include working primarily with adults are appropriate intern candidates. The program is also highly suitable for candidates who want to broaden their experience by working with a college student population. For those interns who plan to work in a higher education counseling setting, the program is ideal. The objectives of the training program are: To provide training in planning and delivery of developmental, preventative, and remedial services in order to meet the service demands of a clinical or counseling psychologist. To train interns in career counseling to meet the specific needs of adult college students. To prepare interns to provide outreach and consultative services. To provide further training in assessment and diagnostic skills applicable to any population including career assessment, particularly applicable to counseling in a college population. To train interns to be able to meet diverse cultural and demographic individual and group needs as well as those related to life-style and disability. To provide interns with a keen sense of ethics and professionalism. To offer opportunities for individualized program planning to meet the specific needs of each intern. To treat interns as colleagues in regard to allocation of resources, Center assignments, social activities, and support for professional activities. PRACTITIONER-SCHOLAR TRAINING MODEL The doctor al internship training program at the ( ) trains its interns in accordance with a Practitioner-Scholar Training Model. This Model trains psychologists as generalists, capable of functioning in a wide variety of settings, counseling with a diverse population and dealing with an assortment of problems and concerns. The primary goal of this program is to prepare interns in a variety of functions required by generalist psychologists and secondly, to provide interns experience in the operations of a comprehensive university counseling center. The uniqueness of the program is its commitment to serving students using an adult development model of service delivery that incorporates and promotes emotional, social and career development. The conceptual framework under-girding the internship program at implements the theme "learning by doing" while being mentored in a warm, supportive environment that derscores how the role of the development and mentorship of an intern demands a major emphasis on theory and reflective inquiry, combined with experiential opportunities and internship experience. The intern operates and develops in the program with constant interaction, supervision, mentoring, and modeling from the professional psychologist staff. Our internship program model is an interactive learning experience where emerging professionals practice and develop the multiple roles of a counseling center psychologist including individual, couples and group therapy, training and supervision, psychological assessment, crisis intervention, and outreach/consultation. The model emphasizes that the effectiveness of a psychologist is not merely the result of skill acquisition, but rather a successful balance of competence and social maturity that results in self-regulated ethical behavior. As practitioners of disciplined inquiry or reflective practitioners, professional psychologists approach problems as the "reflect- in- action." Interns practice in an apprentice role with psychologists who mentor and model practice and professionalism. Interns are exposed to a variety of didactic, supervisory, and experiential activities that value the integration of scholarly knowledge and practice. This exposes interns to new perspectives and allows them to engage in professional dialogue in which both the intern and supervisors are challenged to examine and articulate the application of scholarly knowledge to professional practic e. We strive to recruit, select, and train qualified psychology interns whose career goals include providing clinical services to adults on an individual and group outpatient basis, supervising psychologists- in-training, and engaging in consultation and outreach efforts. Our developmental practitioner model focuses on building on previous skills and knowledge to develop competencies for delivering psychological services, and providing graduated learning opportunities with increased responsibility as the year progresses. By the end of the internship year, interns are expected to be ready to function as autonomous, entry-level practitioners with an intermediate to advanced level of competency in all professional areas. Our philosophy adheres to the belief that the greatest growth for developing psychologists is best facilitated via a supportive climate and openness for regular feedback. Clinical supervisors respect the supervisee's individual style and expect interns to openly share their successes and challenges in their work with clients. A primary supervisory focus is the "self as an instrument for change." Supervisors consult with each other and the training director to relate insights into the trainee's needs. We grant interns considerable autonomy and they are encouraged to make choices regarding their numerous training opportunities and responsibilities. One of the clear strengths of this internship is the amount and quality of supervision provided to interns. It is the intention of the training program that interns receive supervision from professional role models who represent diversity with respect to professional discipline, gender and ethnic background. The high ratio of supervision to delivery time reflects our commitment to the training aspect of the internship program. A second strong strength of this internship is the diversity training experience. Our program fosters an appreciation for the richness of human diversity in all its aspects. This is accomplished through didactic, experiential, and supervisory activities that allow interns to develop effective approaches in working with a diverse clientele. CONTENT OF THE PROGRAM A developmental model, as applied in our Center, requires primary, secondary and tertiary psychological intervention by psychologists working in this setting. The diversity of the student body demands that interns engage in all levels of interventions to manage the concerns and problems of students involved in various stages of personal development. With that in mind, the following provides an overview of the Internship Training Program at the Center for Counseling, Learning and Testing, University of Memphis: AREA EXPERIENCES -Interns train in all areas of the Center according to each area's program requirements designated in the Internship Manual. Psychological Counseling -The goal of internship training in the Psychological Counseling area is to provide training in the areas of individual, couples, marital, family, group and crisis therapy/counseling, and to develop supervision, diagnostic, assessment, and consulting skills. 1) Individual Counseling and Psychotherapy-Interviewing, assessment, and diagnostic skills are emphasized. Trainees have an opportunity to develop these skills by sitting in with senior staff members to observe the processes. Additionally, the skills are discussed and/or practiced during case conference. Readiness for case responsibility is determined by the intern, supervisor, and the Coordinator of Training. Individual counseling is a core part of the internship program. Interns carry a caseload of clients from diverse backgrounds, representing a variety of problems. Most counseling is short-term; however, opportunities for long-term therapy do exist. 2) Group Counseling and Psychotherapy-occurs primarily in the Counseling Center. Interns lead or co-lead both structured and unstructured groups throughout the year. A beginning intern co-leads at least one group with a senior staff member. After they have demonstrated proficiency, trainees may lead a group(s) or co-lead a group(s) with other interns. Ideally, interns conduct at least one group during each six months period. Supervision of group work is provided by senior staff members. 3) Crisis Counseling-In addition to being responsible for providing crisis intervention as needed for their own clients, interns rotate with senior staff in offering walk-in crisis counseling, beginning in the fall. Interns may also be called out of the Center to intervene in crises in residence halls, classrooms, and security or other campus offices. The interns begin their rotation in October with senior staff in being on-call for emergencies during hours when the Center is closed. Career Counseling -Career Counseling provides opportunities for the interns to conduct individual career counseling sessions, which can include career exploration, assessment, and career planning. The career track allows interns to develop techniques in decision-making, goal setting, and assessment skills and to become proficient in integrating client interests, values, personality factors, and career preferences. AREAS OF EMPHASIS -Interns will gain exposure to these 4 areas: Assessment -Interns receive training and experience with a variety of assessment materials. Assessment training includes diagnostic interviewing, test administration, interpretation, and professional report writing, utilizing such instruments as objective and projective personality measure, intelligence tests, aptitude and interest inventories and others. The Center utilizes these tests for prevention as well as for remediation of mental health problems. Interns will be expected to gain proficiency and hone existing skills at a professional psychologist level. Diversity-This area of focus is designed to increase the trainee's awareness, knowledge and skill in cross-cultural counseling. The seminar begins by examining personal ethnicity and then proceeds to an exploration of cross-cultural counseling theory. Through the study of theory, trainees acquire knowledge regarding ethnic minority groups and begin applying that knowledge. Successful completion of this seminar requires finishing selected readings and homework assignments, participation in discussions and presentation of cases that highlight cross-cultural counseling issues. Ethics/EVT*-Interns should be knowledgeable regarding the 1) APA Ethical Principles of Psychologists, 2) Standards for Providers of Psychological Services, and 3) The Specialty Guidelines for the Delivery of Services. To maximize trainee awareness of these resources, interns will review and discuss them with a licensed psychologist. Supplemental materials to be used in this seminar will include journal articles, periodicals, books on ethics, legal documents, and APA Training Video Series. (* EVT-Empirically Validated Treatments) Substance Abuse-A seminar on chemical dependency and other addictive disorders is conducted. It includes topics such as the following: 1) Alcohol Abuse: stages, diagnosis, and treatment; 2) Dual Diagnoses; 3) Families of Chemically Dependent; 4) Drug Addiction; and 5) Referrals and Resources. SUPERVISION -The training program provides opportunities to develop and implement programs for the student population, and to plan and implement various kinds of classroom activities. Supervision is provided individually, in Case Conference, and in Supervision- of-Supervision sessions. 1) Every intern receives a minimum of two hours weekly individual supervision. In addition, interns consult with their individual supervisors regarding case assignment so that the intern has an appropriate and diversified caseload. Individual supervisors are rotated each semester in order to ensure that trainees are exposed to a variety of supervisory styles and areas of expertise. Interns may also receive supervision on special cases from other staff members when appropriate. 2) Case conference is a weekly two-hour session for all intern trainees, supervised and evaluated by senior staff. During this time, trainees are responsible for presenting cases. Trainees utilize digital video-recordings, role-play, written transcripts or other means of presentation. 3) Supervision- of-supervision is provided by senior staff when interns supervise trainees who are one or more training levels lower in experience. Interns' primary responsibility will be a 'one on one' supervisory relationship with student trainees. Supervision is conducted in a group setting. 4) Supervision by a staff member is provided for additional trainee activities. These activities include leading or co-leading groups, supervising other students, engaging in outreach activities and consulting or working in specialty programs focusing on special populations. ASSESSMENT AND SPECIAL TOPICS SEMINARS - Professional development is a weekly educational seminar in which topics of professional interest and therapeutic relevance are presented. Typical examples of topics covered are: depression, suicide, short-term psychotherapy, counseling the disabled, borderline personality disorders, anxiety, stress management, marital and family issues, sleep disorders, crisis intervention, rape, eating disorders and emergency commitment procedures. Presenters include Center staff, the Center's consulting psychiatrist, professionals from the community and trainees with advanced knowledge or experience in a particular area. The purpose of the professional development seminar is to explore issues that confront the psychologist- in-training during a comprehensive internship experience. In addition to staff development activities in the Psychological Counseling area, the Center sponsors staff development throughout the year. Additionally, the Division of Student Affairs sponsors at least two staff development activities per year. Interns are encouraged to attend staff development activities as often as their schedules permit. STANDING MEETINGS AND COMMITTEES - Center for Counseling, Tutorin and Testing Staff Meetings-Interns are expected to attend the bi-weekly Center staff meetings. These meetings include all professional staff and are generally business focused, unless a staff development program is scheduled. Committees-Interns have the opportunity to serve on a variety of Center and Division-wide committees. Standing committees in which interns may participate include: Computer Technology, Friendship Fund Internship Selection, Multicultural, Professional Development Retreat, Public Relations, and Research. Research-The Center has a standing research committee, and staff members are involved in ongoing research projects. Interns are actively involved in research through working on dissertations or are working with staff or alone on other projects relating to Center activities. Interns may also serve on the research committee. Consultation/Outreach-With the assistance and supervision of senior staff, the intern is responsible for developing, implementing, and evaluating consultation/outreach activities. Interns are required to do outreach presentations at least three times during the year. Secondary Employment-In regard to employment secondary to their positions as psychology interns, interns are expected to follow APA ethics and the University of Memphis policy pertaining to such employment. SAMPLE WEEKLY SCHEDULE The following is a sample work week which may vary according to the service needs of the Center and the intern's individual needs: Psychological Counseling . . . . . . . . . . 8 to 10 Hours Career Counseling . . . . . . . . . . 3 Hours Other Center Units (ESP & Testing) . . . . . . . . . . 1 to 2 Hours Group Work . . . . . . . . . . 2 to 3 Hours Crisis Counseling . . . . . . . . . . 1 1/2 Hours Consultation/Outreach/Committees . . . . . . . . . . 1 Hour Assessment . . . . . . . . . . 4 Hours Center Staff Meeting . . . . . . . . . . 1 Hour Research . . . . . . . . . . 4 Hours Administration/Paperwork . . . . . . . . . . 3 Hours Case Conference . . . . . . . . . . 2 Hours Professiona l Development Seminar . . . . . . . . . . 1 1/2 Hours Supervision of Practicum Students . . . . . . . . . . 1 1/2 Hour Individual Supervision . . . . . . . . . . 2 Hours Specialized Supervision/Training . . . . . . . . . . 2 to 2 1/2 Hours Interns Meeti ng. . . . . . . . . . 1 Hour Total will vary . . . . . . . . . . 40 to 45 Hours Weekly The internship may require additional hours for training purposes. SALARY AND BENEFITS The stipend for 12 months is $ .Additional benefits include: 24 days annual leave 12 days sick leave 13 holidays Employee Assistance Program Retirement benefits Medical/dental insurance Also Available: university housing, research time, tuition waiver, health service, computer and recreational facilities For more information, access the University of Memphis Human Resources page at http:// .memphis.edu/hr/ or call them at (901) 678- . INTERNSHIP APPLICATION INFORMATION Qualifications: Candidates must be enrolled in counseling or clinical psychology programs and have completed 500 hours of practicum work. All relevant program course work must be completed. Preference will be given to candidates from APA accredited programs. It is required that candidates have completed their comprehensive exams prior to the application deadline. Dissertation proposals are required to have been approved by the start of internship. APPIC Matching Program Code # 5591 Applications: Deadline is Friday, November 1 , 201 .Applic ations should include: A statement of interest in the Center for Counseling, Learning and Testing internship as it applies to an applicant's goals. A current curriculum vita. An official transcript of all graduate work. Three letters of recommendation (one of which must be from the applicant's major professor) from persons who have observed applicant's academic and applied work. APPIC internship application, accessible at . A readiness form completed by training director. An on-site interview is preferred, although a phone interview is an option. Applicants who opt for a phone interview can make arrangements to visit our site. Applications from minority candidates are strongly encouraged. If you have any questions about the information above, please contact: , Ph.D., Training Director