#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/pdfs/adult-education-comprehensive-exam-question.pdf
Adult Education Comprehensive Exam Question Drafted September 18, 2013 Develop an educational program for adult learners. Use the five lenses you learned in your study of adult education to develop that program ; the educator, the learner, the learning process, the learning context, the program design and delivery. Use at least four theories or concepts to explain each of the five lenses. Organize your paper as follows: I. Introduction (1 page ) Begin by describing the e ducational setting. It can be formal, informal or non - formal. Clearly state the purpose of the program II. Foundation/Core Knowledge ( 8 - 10 pages) Describe and discuss each of the five lenses based on the literature studied in adult education courses (HIAD 8510 Overview of Adult Education; LEAD 8500 Adult Learning & Leadership; HIAD 8530 Continuing and Professional Education; HIAD 8541 Issues and Trends Teaching Adults; HIAD 8542 Global and Comparative Issues in Lead ership) . Your discussion should include main topics or components that comprise each lens. III. Application of Knowledge (5 - 8 pages) Critically analyze and justify your use of the five lenses and theories discussed above to develop your program. IV. Evaluati on plan (1 - 2 pages) Describe how you would evaluate the program. What is your evaluation plan? V. References Use APA 6 th edition How you will be evaluated: 20% Organization and Readability Unit of whole, paragraph development, transitions, topic sentences, introduction/ conclusions, general writing ability, clarity of argument, unity of diction, slang Written in APA format, includes a minimum of 20 references, uses standard English spel ling and grammar 80 % Content of Argument and Substantiation A bility to analyze, syn thesize and evaluate material (35 % ) Clear identification of each theory by name and, if applicable, main author Comprehensive description of theory References for theor y Use of res ources, knowledge of research (15 %) Thorough and clear explanation of how each theory might be used Creative analysis ( 3 0%)