#http://www.memphis.edu/abroad/funding/scholarships.php
Funding - Study Abroad - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Study Abroad Programs Students J-1 Students Faculty Funding Resources News About Funding Scholarships Financial Aid Home Study Abroad Funding Funding Scholarships for Study Abroad Below is a list of internal and external scholarships University of Memphis students may apply for. Students are encouraged to do research on scholarships to study abroad as this is not a complete list of study abroad scholarships. Financial aid (student loans, UofM scholarships, Hope Lottery, etc.) may also be used toward covering costs for studying abroad. Contact the Financial Aid Office for more information about using your UofM loans and grants to study abroad. University of Memphis Scholarships UofM Study Abroad Scholarship The UofM Study Abroad Scholarship is designed to encourage students to study abroad. The University awards scholarships to academically talented students who plan to enroll in an exchange or other approved program in a foreign country. Priority will be given to students in programs which promote the development of international competency, which is defined as the acquisition of a foreign language or extended experience in a foreign culture. The amount awarded depends on the length and duration of a program. The Study Abroad Scholarship is available for full-time graduate and undergraduate students at The University of Memphis. Undergraduate students must have completed one semester the term prior to the time of application and have a minimum 2.75 GPA. Graduate students must have completed 6 semester hours and be in good academic standing. The scholarship competition has strict deadlines and applications submitted after the published deadline will not be considered. Please look at the deadlines section to see when your scholarship application is due. Video: How To Apply for the UofM Study Abroad Scholarship Cecil C. Humphreys Merit, Presidential and Herff Scholarship The University of Memphis awards a study abroad stipend to recipients of the Cecil C. Humphreys Merit, Presidential and Herff Scholarship. For more information on how to apply this scholarship to your study abroad trip, please contact the Scholarship Office at scholarships@memphis.edu or 901.678.3213 or stop by 107 Wilder Tower. Mary Pettus Thomas Memorial Scholarship The Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures offers scholarships through the Mary Pettus Thomas Memorial Scholarship Fund to students pursuing a University of Memphis study abroad program in the Summer or during academic year. The amount awarded will depend on the individual student's financial need. In order to be eligible for the scholarship, students must have a declared major in Foreign Languages, have achieved Junior standing (60 hours), have a 3.0 GPA, demonstrate financial need, and have a letter of support from a faculty member in the department. To complete the application click here . For more information, contact Dr. Will Thompson, Chair of the Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures at wjthmpsn@memphis.edu . Morgan Morton Student Travel Enrichment Fund Morgan Morton, a Fogelman College alumnus and supporter, will donate $150,000 over the course of five years to support the newly-formed Morgan Morton FCBE Student Travel Enrichment Fund. This fund is designed to stimulate international and domestic travel for undergraduate, masters and Ph.D. business students. Priority will be given for international travel and to undergraduate students in their final year of study. The travel fund is intended to enhance students' learning about businesses and to further their professional development. A selection committee appointed by the Dean's office will select from the applicants based on merit, and also determine the amount of monetary support the student will receive. Students who are selected to receive travel funds will be required to submit a written report or make a presentation detailing the learning experiences of the trip upon return. Students may travel individually or as a group, but must be in good academic standing with the University. If you are planning to study abroad during Winter Break or the Spring Semester, applications must be submitted by October 15. If you are planning to study abroad during the Fall Semester, Summer Semester or Academic Year, applications must be submitted by March 15. For more information and to apply please contact email Felicia Roddy-Jackson at frddyjck@memphis.edu . National and International Scholarships American Scandinavian Foundation The American-Scandinavian Foundation (ASF) offers fellowships (up to $20,000) and grants (normally $4,000) to individuals to pursue research or advanced study in one or more Scandinavian country for up to one year. Awards are made in all fields. Bridging Scholarships The Association of Teachers of Japanese Bridging Project offers scholarships to American students participating in study-abroad programs in Japan. The ATJ awards 100 scholarships annually to undergraduate students majoring in any field of study. Japanese language study is not a prerequisite. Applicants must be enrolled in a college or university in the United States. The Bridging Scholarship is a stipend of $2,500 for students on semester-long programs or $4,000 for students on academic year programs. Critical Language Scholarship Program The United States Department of State Critical Language Scholarship (CLS) Program provide fully-funded group-based intensive language instruction and structured cultural enrichment experiences through seven to ten weeks for U.S. citizen undergraduate and graduate students. Students may apply for one language, and will be placed at institute sites based on language evaluations after selection. Languages offered: Arabic, Azerbaijani, Bangla/Bengali, Chinese, Hindi, Indonesian, Japanese, Korean, Persian, Punjabi, Russian, Turkish, and Urdu. Students from all academic disciplines, including business, engineering, law, medicine, sciences, and humanities are encouraged to apply. While there is no service requirement attached to CLS Program awards, participants are expected to continue their language study beyond the scholarship period, and later apply their critical language skills in their future professional careers. DAAD Awards The German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) is a publicly-funded independent organization of higher education institutions in Germany. DAAD awards scholarships and grants to students who are interested in studying at one of Germany's higher education and research institutions. The deadline for fall and spring applications is in January and December for Summer. Foundation for Global Scholars The Foundation for Global Scholars (FGS) was established in 2006 with the vision to open doors for as many college students as possible to have international study opportunities and become globally minded citizens. The purpose of FGS is to mitigate the incremental costs of study abroad programs through scholarship support. Since 2006, FGS has awarded over $1.75 million in financial assistance and supported over 1700 outstanding students from more than 300 colleges and universities, raised awareness of international education, and gathered a community who are creating solutions to global challenges. The Fulbright Student Program The Fulbright Student program is the U.S. governments' most prestigious scholarship program. It provides opportunities for U.S. students to undertake international graduate study, advanced research, university teaching, and teaching in elementary and secondary schools worldwide. Fulbright applications are highly competitive and students are encouraged to start preparing at least a year before the application deadline. To find out more information on the scholarship, click on "U.S. Student Program" at the Fulbright website . Please go here for the U.S. Fulbright student program website. Fulbright Summer Institute in the United Kingdom The US-UK Fulbright Commission offers special Summer Institutes for US citizens to come to the UK. These summer programs provide the opportunity for US undergraduates, with at least two years of undergraduate study left to complete, to come to the UK on a three, four, five or six week academic and cultural summer program. Participants will get the opportunity to experience an exciting academic program at a highly regarded UK University, explore the culture, heritage and history of the UK and develop their academic ability by improving presentation, research and communication skills. Fund for Education Abroad The Fund for Education Abroad (FEA) scholarships are designed by professionals in the field of Education Abroad to meet the growing need for financial resources to enable more students to go abroad. Scholarships will be up to $5,000 per semester and are not limited to specific programs, destinations, or fields of study. FEA will award funds for students planning to study abroad on academically rigorous programs with a preference for underrepresented students. Gates Cambridge Scholarships The Gates Cambridge Scholarship is an international scholarship program designed to enable outstanding graduate students from outside the United Kingdom study at the University of Cambridge . Gates Cambridge Scholarships seek scholars of outstanding academic merit and leadership potential who are committed to serving their communities, and who gain admission to the University of Cambridge to pursue courses of study. The Gates Cambridge Trust will cover tuition and living expenses of studying at Cambridge. Gilman Scholarship for Study Abroad The Gilman Scholarship provides awards for US undergraduate students who are receiving federal Pell Grant funding at a 2-year or 4-year college or university to participate in study abroad programs worldwide. Selected by competition, recipients are awarded up to $5,000 to defray the costs associated with studying abroad. Global Studies Awards The Global Study Awards is designed to support highly motivated, talented individuals who can actively demonstrate their potential to contribute to society through their studies; a strong commitment to developing their career; and their sincere interest in increasing intercultural understanding and exchange. Successful candidates will be willing to engage with the British Council IELTS, ISIC and StudyPortals communities, and publicly share their experiences with other students. The Global Study Awards will be available to prospective students in all countries worldwide. The Global Study Awards will enable the successful candidate(s) to study abroad, on any chosen undergraduate or postgraduate program at a higher education institution. Go! Overseas Study Abroad Scholarship The Go! Overseas Study Abroad Scholarship supports students participating in study abroad programs. The award for each scholarship is $1,000 and they are awarded each year. The scholarship is awarded to students who display creativity, analytical thinking, and passion through their written or video submissions. Applicants must be accepted into a study abroad program. The Honor Society of Phi Kappa Phi The Phi Kappa Phi Study Abroad Scholarship is designed to recognize and assist undergraduates as they seek knowledge abroad. 38 grants of $1,000 each are awarded annually. Applicants do not have to be members of the Phi Kappa Phi Honor Society. Japan Exchange and Teaching (JET) The Japan Exchange and Teaching Program promotes mutual understanding between Japan and other nations. The JET program offers the opportunity to spend a year or two in Japan teaching in a high school or middle school or other post serving Japanese youth. Participants are not necessarily required to speak Japanese to qualify. JET exchange teachers receive generous compensation. The Killam Fellowships Program The Killam Fellowships Program provides an opportunity for exceptional undergraduate students from American universities to spend either one semester or a full academic year as an exchange student in Canada. Fellowship recipients receive $5,000 for one semester at a Canadian institution, health insurance,up to $800 for in-country travel and attend the Killam Orientation in Ottawa, ON and a spring Seminar in Washington, DC. British Marshall Fellowships British Marshall Scholarships are awarded to Americans of high ability to study for a degree in the United Kingdom. Forty Scholars are selected each year to study either at graduate or occasionally undergraduate level at a UK institution in any field of study. Each scholarship is held for two years. Mitchell Scholarships The Mitchell Scholarship supports one year of graduate study by American citizens in any discipline offered by an institution of higher learning in Ireland or Northern Ireland. Scholars must be between the ages of 18 and 30 and be enrolled in a degree or certificate program offered at the institution. The Mitchell Scholarship provides tuition, housing, a living expenses stipend, and international travel. Normally, 12 Scholarships are awarded each year. Mitchell Scholars must exhibit superior records of academic excellence, leadership and public service. Strong, demonstrated achievements in all three areas are required. National Security Education Program (NSEP): David L. Boren Scholarships &amp; Fellowships for Undergraduates and Graduates NSEP Scholarships are intended to provide support to U.S. undergraduates who will pursue the study of languages and cultures currently underrepresented in study abroad and critical to U.S. national security. Study of a foreign language appropriate to the identified country must be part of the proposal. Awards are for a minimum of one academic term, including a summer term of six (6) weeks or longer. Preference will be given to applicants pursuing study abroad for a full academic year. Contact the Study Abroad Office for the on-campus application deadline. Rhodes Scholarships The Rhodes Scholarships, the oldest international fellowships, were initiated after the death of Cecil Rhodes in 1902, and now bring outstanding students from many countries around the world to the University of Oxford . American Rhodes Scholars are selected through a decentralized process by which regional selection committees choose 32 Scholars each year from among those nominated by selection committees in each of the 50 states. RISE (Research Internship in Science and Engineering) RISE is a summer internship program in Germany for undergraduate students from the United States in the fields of biology, chemistry, physics, earth sciences and engineering. RISE offers unique opportunities for Bachelor students to work with research groups at universities and top research institutions across Germany for a period of 2 to 3 months during the summer. RISE interns are matched with doctoral students whom they assist and who serve as their mentors. The working language will be English. All scholarship holders receive stipends from the DAAD to help cover living expenses, while partner universities &amp; research institutes provide housing assistance. Rotary Scholarships The purpose of the Ambassadorial Scholarships program is to further international understanding and friendly relations among people of different countries. The program sponsors several types of scholarships for undergraduate and graduate students as well as for qualified professionals pursuing vocational studies. Cultural Ambassadorial Scholarships are for either three or six months of intensive language study and cultural immersion in another country and provide funds to cover round-trip transportation, language training expenses, and home stay living arrangements. Whitaker International Program Scholarship The Whitaker International Undergraduate Program Scholarship is for students enrolled in an undergraduate biomedical engineering or bioengineering degree program. With support from the former Whitaker Foundation, IIE will provide undergraduate biomedical engineers and bioengineers funding for a semester or one academic year to pursue, in an international setting, coursework in biomedical engineering (BME). There will be two competitions each year, one for the Fall/Academic Year term, and one for the Spring term. Award amounts range from $7,500 for a semester program to $10,000 for an academic year program. Applicants must be U.S. citizens or permanent residents of the U.S., or be at a sophomore or above level, in an undergraduate BME degree program with good academic standing, and demonstrate a need for financial support. Priority will be given to students going to non-traditional destinations. Visit the website for application and deadline details. Scholarships Awarded by Program Providers API Study Abroad Scholarships API awards approximately $400,000 in study abroad scholarships annually ranging from $250 -$1,000 per student. Students may apply for multiple API scholarships (though may only be awarded one). CEA Scholarships CEA offers merit-based scholarships that award exceptional academic achievement, need-based scholarships that mitigate financial and economic barriers, and diversity scholarships for students from diverse backgrounds and for students with disabilities. College Consortium for International Studies (CCIS) CCIS offers scholarships each term to students at the UofM. Students studying on CCIS sponsored programs are eligible for a CCIS scholarship. Scholarships will be awarded only to students with no previous collegiate-level study abroad experience. There is no application form and students should be nominated by the study abroad director. Students will complete a statement of purpose if nominated and, if awarded, an essay upon returning from their study abroad experience. International Student Exchange Program (ISEP) ISEP provides scholarships for programs to Africa, South America, France, Germany and Australia. Students should access the ISEP website for information on award location and deadlines. The ISEP scholarship is open to students participating in an ISEP program. ISA Scholarships ISA provides scholarships and grants to students participating in one or more ISA program. IFSA-Butler Scholarship IFSA-Butler offers scholarships to students with demonstrated financial need. Any student who applies for an IFSA-Butler program may apply for a scholarship. Scholarship awards range from $500 for summer programs, $1,500 for semester programs, and $2,500 for full year programs. Scholarship Search Engines IIE Passport DiversityAbroad.com GoAbroad.org International Education Financial Aid InternationalScholarships.com StudentAwards.com StudyAbroad.com StudyAbroadLinks.com University of Minnesota Resources Google The Study Abroad Office helps students coordinate applications for international scholarships. If you have questions, stop by the office at 102 Brister Hall or contact us at tigersabroad@memphis.edu or 901.678-2814. Honors Program students should also contact the Honors Program Office at 204 Scates Hall for additional assistance. Funding Scholarships Financial Aid Log-In Log-In to your application Search Programs Search Study Abroad programs Scholarships Search scholarship opportunities for Study Abroad Contact Us Email, call or schedule appointments Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .