#http://blogs.memphis.edu/sophtechteam/
Sophomore Technology Team | Hello Tigers, My Name is Casey Jordan, I am a Junior Business Information Technology (BIT) Major. I have the pleasure of communicating with you all through this blog. Please feel free to ask, write, and comment. I look forward to hearing from you! GO TIGERS! Main menu Skip to content Home Sample Page Sophomore Technology Team Hello Tigers, My Name is Casey Jordan, I am a Junior Business Information Technology (BIT) Major. I have the pleasure of communicating with you all through this blog. Please feel free to ask, write, and comment. I look forward to hearing from you! GO TIGERS! Search for: Oct 26 2015 Stress-Free Zone&#8230; Posted by Casey Jordan Hello Fellow Tigers, As you may have learned college can be very stressful, thankfully the university provides The Counseling Center. The Counseling Center is located in Wilder Tower 214, they provide free counseling, wellness, and psychiatric services for University of Memphis students. They are available for walk-ins Monday – Friday between 10:00 am and 2:00 pm. They offer the following confidential services free of charge: Individual Counseling Couples and Family Counseling Career Counseling Relaxation Counseling Biofeedback Resources Group Opportunities Urgent/Crisis Services Psychiatric Evaluation and Medication Management (uninsured students only) ADHD Support (Testing is available for a fee) Substance Abuse Screenings and Support Individual &amp; Small Group “Wellness Breaks” Campus Outreach and Education Programs If you feel that you or someone that you know might need help please visit the link below: Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Oct 05 2015 Tiger Learning Posted by Casey Jordan Hello Fellow Tigers, As many of you have realized, college is not always easy, and some classes are easier than others. Do not fear, because our campus provides the Educational Support Program (ESP). ESP has numerous touring labs on campus as well as online these labs are staffed by ESP-Certified tutors. The Academic Enhancement Center located in Mitchell 207 opened Monday – Friday from 8:00 am–4:30 pm they specialize in tutoring for General Education courses, Spanish, French, Japanese, Sociology and History. They also offer services for Grade Improvement through Learning Strategies, Test Taking Skills, and Reading Comprehension Skills. We also offer labs for business courses as well in the Business Learning Center located in Fogelman College of Business (FCB) 256, they are open Monday – Thursday from 9:00 am-7:00 pm. They offer tutoring for Accounting, Statistics, MIS, Finance and other business courses. Those are just a few of the services that are offered by the university, some of the other labs and hours of operation are also listed below. Please click on the links below to learn more about the ESP and the services that they provide. Anatomy and Physiology/Psychology Learning Center PanHellenic 207 English Learning Center Patterson 225 Math Learning Center Dunn 143 Science Learning Center Mitchell 217 Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Sep 28 2015 Tiger Technology Posted by Casey Jordan Did you know that here at The University of Memphis McWherter Library, we offer a lot of  great services for our students. One of the essential parts of completing college successfully is having computer access. In addition to the Tech Hub in the University Center, and the various computer labs throughout campus, and in the library, the option of laptop borrowing is available. Students are allowed to checkout laptops for a total of 4 hours, it&#8217;s as simple as going into the library and presenting your Current Student ID to the Circulation desk. The library also offers Technology Training, which is a variety  of classes that are offered such as, GoPro training, 3D lab training, and Web Design For Beginners. The link to register for one of the classes is listed below. One of the most popular services is the Group Study Space which is located on the 3rd &amp; 4th floors of the library. Booking you a quiet place to study is just a click away, the link on booking one of the various spaces is also located below. Another place on campus that offers other technology services and study rooms is the Technology Hub in the University of Memphis. The first thing is of course is the 24-Hour located on the 2nd floor of the University Center. This includes over 70+ Dell computers and 10+ Macs, the link to finding a lab on campus is located below. Like the library there are also group study rooms known as collaboration rooms available. Collaboration rooms can only be reserved for 2 hours at a time, and this must be done in person. Go into the Tech Hub and speak to the Desk Attendants for further assistance in reserving your room. Students are permitted to book a reservation one week in advance .  During peak hours (finals week) students are allowed to book a reservation 48 hours in advance. Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Sep 21 2015 Did You Know&#8230; Posted by Casey Jordan Did you know that The University of Memphis has a New Service Desk Support System! This new system with comes plenty of new features. The first, new feature is the Self-Service Portal, with this new feature you will be able to submit your own service request. This feature is great if you do not have time to call or walk over to the service desk you are able to submit your request whenever or wherever you want. To take a look at the Self-Service Portal visit umhelpdesk.memphis.edu. Another amazing feature is that we have added the option of mobile access, with this feature you are able to report your problems and submit your request on the go. It’s like having a mini service desk in the palm of your hands, this feature will work with any mobile device. The email features have also been updated, you are now able to submit your incident and service request by emailing umtech@memphis.edu. This option allows you the freedom of submitting your problems just by the click of a button. For More Information &amp;  To Take A Look At The New Features Please Visit:   Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Mar 20 2015 Have You Heard? Microsoft Office 2016 Has Just Gotten Better! Posted by Malcolm Lee Dorsey Well it&#8217;s been a long time coming, but after five years after Office 2011 for Mac, Microsoft has posted a free, time sensitive preview of Office 2016 for Mac, its arriving new OS X version of the world&#8217;s most widely used office suite. With a single 2.7 GB,  download installs shiny new versions of Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, and OneNote, while any older Office versions that you already had on your disk remain there, ready to use if you prefer them to the preview. You don&#8217;t need an Office 365 subscription to use the preview, but if you already have a subscription, the preview integrates with your Office 365 account in the same way that Office 2013 for Windows does, all you need to do is login. So now you have full access to Office 365&#8217;s collaboration and file-sharing features. It looks and works more like Office for Windows. It&#8217;s more at home on the Mac. And finally, it&#8217;s at home in the cloud.  So now all you Mac users can sleep a little better knowing that ease is only a preview away. To Download Office Visit memphis.edu/getoffice . Please contact the ITS Service Desk at 901.678.8888 If any further assistance is needed. (OPEN 24&#215;7) Posted in Uncategorized | 2 Comments | Feb 13 2015 Why stress when there&#8217;s Citrix Posted by Malcolm Lee Dorsey With ease and convenience in mind, The University of Memphis offers for all students the ease and support of multi-apps for your classes to ensure  that you&#8217;re not just successful but most importantly to not have to pay anything. That&#8217;s right the software included is all FREE! So now I know you&#8217;re asking, What is Citrix? Well whether you&#8217;re on the go Citrix is something you can use anytime and anyplace. Citrix operates on a cloud operating system. Citrix provides free resources and free trainings for individual learning and for instructors to incorporate into their IT programs, computer science or software engineering courses, research and projects. However, it&#8217;s not limited to those listed. Featured programs, but not limited are: SPSS, SAS, and MatLab.  I certainly recommend using these applications along with  the other featured Citrix applications to better propel you to a pipeline of success. Having trouble saving with Citrix?  Click FILE-&gt;Open (or Save As) Click COMPUTER, it is located on the left side of the Open/Save As window. On the right side of the window double click on LOCAL DISK (c: on *Computer Name*) You may be prompted to give the program permission to access files on your PC. Accept or Approve it.  Select Users -&gt; *Your Username* Now, you should be able to access your desktop downloads, documents, etc, and save. Are you having difficulties accessing Citrix? If you&#8217;re having trouble accessing the Citrix software please do the following steps: Ensure that the browser is not blocking access when you select an application. If you&#8217;re using INTERNET EXPLORER add Citrix as a trusted site. Go to Tools -&gt; Internet Options -&gt; Security -&gt; Select Trusted Sites -&gt; Enter If you&#8217;re using FIREFOX, look for a &#8220;lego brick&#8221; in the address bar. Click it and allow &#8220;Citrix Receiver&#8221; If you&#8217;re using CHROME, find the shield icon in the address bar, click that and be sure the Citrix Server is allowed, Feel free to log on to using  your username and password to Citrix website at citrix.memphis.edu Need help? Call 678-8888 (Open 24&#215;7) Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Jan 30 2015 Are you taking advantage ? Posted by Malcolm Lee Dorsey Again just a recap with student advantage, it&#8217;s free, it&#8217;s for you, and you can use it anytime. Whether it&#8217;s OneNote, PowerPoint, Word, or Excel here&#8217;s a opportunity for you to take advantage as a student for free. So feel free to take advantage at Memphis.edu/getoffice Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Jan 26 2015 Welcome Back Posted by Malcolm Lee Dorsey What&#8217;s going on everyone? Now that you&#8217;re getting into the swing of things, you have reviewed  your syllabi and perhaps asked yourself, &#8220;Umm, what is this?&#8221; or perhaps asked any of the following ,  &#8221; We have to write how many papers?&#8221;,  &#8220;What&#8217;s excel?&#8221;, &#8220;That software is how much?!&#8221;.. Well that&#8217;s where I come into place to let you all know not to worry, keep calm and take advantage, well Student Advantage that is. Student Advantage is a initiative , that upon registering with the university, students will receive access to important Office software including: Microsoft Word, Excel, and PowerPoint for FREE&#8230; Seriously, it&#8217;s for free. Now, why do we call it the “Student Advantage”?  So as we the students, it&#8217;s no secret that our professors require in a lot of classes that you use software such as those listed to complete assignments i.e. essays, presentations, and documents encompassing a lot of data. By providing this software, the University is giving students a huge advantage by allowing them to be successful in their in classes which will help you not only save money, but pass the classes. If this sounds like something you would like to take advantage of then visit memphis.edu/getoffice Now that you got the website, what are you waiting for? Go take advantage! STUDENT ADVANTAGE! GOOOOOOO TIGERSSSSSSSSSS! Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Nov 13 2014 Winter Break and Finals Week Posted by Sarah White Good things come to those who work hard. Winter Break is quickly approaching, but first.. FINALS WEEK. Wouldn’t it be nice if you had someone to give you helpful tips that would make finals week a little easier? Well, that’s what I’m here for! When it comes down to it, the only way to prepare for finals week is eat, sleep, study, study, study. Lucky for you, I have some tips that will make studying a little easier and A LOT more beneficial for you. 1. Location and study groups. Grab 3-5 DEDICATED people that need to study just as much as you do. Not only do you need to be able to study in a quiet, peaceful place, you need to have more than one place to study. •Lucky for you, the University of Memphis has collaboration rooms where you can study with a group of people. You can find the Tech Hub in the UC and McWherther Library. 2. Switch subjects. Don’t study the same material for hours and hours. Study one subject, then 30 minutes later, study something else. When you get back to what you started with, your brain will be slightly refreshed and ready to pick up where you left off. •Most of your professors will have their PowerPoint or notes on eCourseware. You will find yourself doing better if you look over and study those when it comes to finals. If you don’t know how to access or find things on eCourseware, you can ask me anything you need to know. 3. Sleep and snack well. I’m sure you all know that 6-8 hours of sleep is essential, but did you know that it’s been proven to raise your GPA up to a WHOLE letter grade? As tempting as it is to grab a candy bar to take with you in case you get hungry while you’re studying, don’t. Snack on fruits and/or vegetables, drink water, and if you need a little caffeine, go get a cup of coffee. Now that we got all that out of the way, don’t forget to register for Spring ’15 classes! You&#8217;re almost halfway done! You can start registering on November 13, 2014. Your advisor will have most of the answers for any questions you have, but if you have any questions you forgot to ask them, contact me, your Technology Coach, and I would be glad to help you! Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Oct 03 2014 Mid Semester Approaching! Posted by Destiny Overman Hey Sophomores! I&#8217;m sure you are all excited for Fall Break approaching next weekend, but let&#8217;s not forget about what comes with that&#8230; Mid Terms!! Here are a few helpful tips to prepare you to do your best on these exams: 1. If you are required to use the Lockdown browser, be sure to update to the latest version of IE to avoid any issues. 2. Be sure to take full advantage of the FREE tutoring that the University offers in many of the departments around campus! Some examples include the College of Business, Math department and English department. 3. And as always be sure to get plenty of rest, sleep, and studying in to make sure you&#8217;re for you best! Also, Spring advising is just around the corner. Do you plan on taking any online course? If so, contact us at Techcoach@memphis.edu for 1 on 1  or group training. I hope you all continue to have a wonderful Fall semester!! Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Page 1 of 2 1 2 Search for: Recent Posts Stress-Free Zone&#8230; Tiger Learning Tiger Technology Did You Know&#8230; Have You Heard? Microsoft Office 2016 Has Just Gotten Better! Recent Comments Casey Jordan on Have You Heard? Microsoft Office 2016 Has Just Gotten Better! Farhan Adam Omar on Have You Heard? Microsoft Office 2016 Has Just Gotten Better! Archives October 2015 September 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 June 2014 Categories Uncategorized Welcome Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS blogs.memphis.edu &copy; Sophomore Technology Team - Powered by Edublogs and WPThemes.co.nz Skip to toolbar University of Memphis University Home Memphis Blogs Blogging Help Log In Search