#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/cas/padm.php
PADM Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning PADM Courses PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (PADM) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: PADM 6710-19. Special Topics in Public Administration. (1-3). In-depth study of selected topics and issues related to public and nonprofit administration. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours. PADM 7710-19–8710-19. Special Topics in Public Administration. (1-3). Intensive study of selected topics in public administration. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours. PADM 6101 - Political Statistics (3) (Same as POLS 6101). Introduction to analysis of quantitative data used to test, statistically, hypotheses in fields of political science and public and health administration. PADM 6207 - Health Politics/Policy (3) Introduction to political, economic, and social forces affecting the health care system in the United States; emphasizes development and comparison of health policies within the context of American politics; analysis of health policies within the context of the stages of American public policy-making. PADM 6221 - Issues/Urban Admin (3) Examination of politics, administration, and public policy in an urban context; focus on the administrative aspects of selected governmental policy-making processes; interrelationships of governments at various levels, urban challenges facing modern public administration. PADM 6225 - Application/Urban Admin (3) Study of the tools and strategies of public and nonprofit administration to accomplish collective purposes, develop communities, and enhance civic capacity toward improved quality of life in urban settings. PADM 6228 - Grant Development/Management (3) Elements of grant writing process; skills to seek, solicit, and receive grant awards from foundation and government sources; administration of awards to meet goals of recipient and granting agency. PADM 6401 - Comparative Public Adm (3) Comparative examination of differing concepts and perspectives of public administration, addressing variability in administrative systems, political power and control over public bureaucracies, education and recruitment of public bureaucrats, and the bureaucratic concept of public interest and responsiveness to the public. PADM 6412 - Neigh Dev/Social Entrep (3) (Same as ANTH 6412). Role of various institutions and their relationship to developmental needs of inner-city neighborhoods; evolution of American cities as context for understanding urban neighborhoods and poverty; institutions that shape urban development policy; partnerships and collaborations of neighborhood associations, governments, and nonprofit agencies. PADM 7213 - Sem Publ Pol Analysis (3) Empirical and normative analysis of public policy at the local, state, national, and international levels, emphasizing the theories, literature, and methodologies current to this field. PREREQUISITE: POLS 7601 or equivalent or permission of instructor. PADM 7224 - Sem Urban Problems (3) Problems inherent in the growing urban developments in the United States; the governmental organization of metropolitan areas and the difficulties of coordination of government functions; proposed remedies and the reception of new approaches in selected metropolitan areas. PADM 7235 - The Memphis Economy (3) (Same as ECON 7235). Analytic and descriptive review of the Memphis regional economy; includes labor markets, industrial and corporate organizations, logistical systems, urban sprawl, and demographics of race and gender. PREREQUISITE: A course in principles of economics. PADM 7600 - Sem Adm Theory & Ethics (3) Significance of public administration in American government; includes an introduction to formal organization theory and bureaucracy, decision-making theory, leadership and motivational theory, and current trends and problems in the study of public administration. PREREQUISITE: PADM 7661 or permission of instructor. PADM 7601 - Research Methods (3) Issues and techniques in data collection for design and implementation of independent research projects; logic of conducting research in public administration, measurement, and sampling; introduction to program evaluation and specific quantitative decision-making techniques. PADM 7602 - Public Bdgt Adm/Fin (3) Detailed study of administrative and political problems of fiscal policy, the budgetary process, and fiscal controls. PADM 7603 - Pblc/Nonprofit Contr (3) Theoretical and practical examination of projects and contracts as tools of policymaking in the public and nonprofit sectors; management projects and third party vendors; alternative mechanisms for public service delivery and an appreciation for the difficulties involved. PADM 7604 - Social Science In Law (3) (Same as POLS 7604). Applications of social science to such public policy questions as discrimination, obscenity, parole, trademarks, death penalty, child custody, and criminal offender profiles. PADM 7605 - Human Resources Admin (3) Policies, methods, and techniques utilized in public and health organizations; special attention is given to problems reflecting contemporary demands upon human resource systems, capacity to diagnose problems, select the most effective means of addressing them, and plan appropriate courses of action developed through case studies. PADM 7606 - Sem Administrative Law (3) Role and nature of administrative law, including procedural requirements and judicial review of administrative actions and liability of government for torts and breach of contract. PADM 7607 - Public Mgmt Leadership (3) Theoretical and applied aspects of public and nonprofit leadership addressed in a holistic approach; focus on the most current literature and public debate; leadership examined from various perspectives reflected across the curriculum: administrative theory, public law, finance, ethics, research methods, and public policy. PREREQUISITE: Completion of at least 24 hours, including PADM 7600 and 7601, or permission of graduate coordinator. PADM 7608 - Public Mgmt Inf Sys (3) (POLS 7608-8608). Analysis and application of responsibilities of public organization managers; focus on technological strategies and skills for meeting those responsibilities including budget processes, information systems and dissemination, decision-making, citizen participation, and program development and evaluation. PADM 7609 - Sem Administratv Ethics (3) Introduction to ethical theories and principles as they apply to the practice of public administration, basic legal constraints such as conflict of interest laws, and more subtle ethical dilemmas that arise in the exercise of discretion of public administrators. PADM 7610 - Internship Public Admin (3-6) Participation in some type of field experience, including a written report critically describing the student's responsibilities. Field experience may result from a supervised internship in cooperating public or nonprofit organizations or from appropriate administrative experience if the student is employed in a public or nonprofit organization. PREREQUISITE: Permission of the Coordinator of Graduate Studies. PADM 7611 - Practicum (3-6) Application of knowledge, concepts, analytical tools to contemporary issues challenging modern managers; individuals pursue special projects in local public and nonprofit organizations, conducting research under the guidance of a faculty committee, or work with the Institute of Governmental Studies and Research on current problems in public administration. May be repeated for a total of 6 credits. PREREQUISITE: Permission of the Coordinator of Graduate Studies. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. PADM 7612 - Program/Policy Evaltn (3) Models, theories, and techniques of program and policy evaluation in public administration; evaluation research design, data collection and analysis, dissemination of results, and possible applications of evaluations to policy-making and administration; organizational and political contexts of evaluation. PREREQUISITE: PADM 7601. PADM 7614 - Interagency Collab/Adm (3) Theoretical and applied aspects of public sector administrative innovation focusing on changing intergovernmental relationships and the growing number and types of partnerships between the public and nonprofit sectors; topics include designing innovative public service programs/structures, potentials for conflict, ethical dilemmas, performance monitoring, and accountability requirements. PREREQUISITE: PADM 7600 or permission of instructor. PADM 7635 - Issues Pub Human Resour (3) Special issues of current interest that relate to management, planning, and development of human resources in nonprofit and public agencies. PREREQUISITE: PADM 7600 and 7605, or permission of graduate coordinator. PADM 7641 - Thry/Prac Nonprofit Adm (3) Introduction to theoretical foundations, structures, and processes of nonprofit organizations; historical development and impact, social, political, legal, and economic environment in which nonprofit organizations exist; complexities of organizational governance shared by volunteer and professional staff decision-makers. PADM 7642 - Res Dev Nonprofit Org (3) Introduction to various resources important to nonprofit organizations including financial support, volunteers, and community awareness, and to wide range of organization activities utilized for acquisition and maintenance of these resources. PREREQUISITE: PADM 7641 or permission of instructor. PADM 7643 - Semn Nonprofit Adm&Philanth (3) Introduction to principles and practices of managerial and financial accounting in nonprofit organizations, including examining performance and financial condition; emphasis on making program choices and decisions using financial management concepts to further effective and accountable nonprofit administration. PREREQUISITE: PADM 7641. PADM 7661 - Contemp Persp PA (3) In-depth examination of contemporary theories of public administration; emphasis on study of political, administrative, and legal context of public administration to further understanding of trends that affect present-day performance of government and nonprofit agencies. PADM 7662 - Application/Public Serv (3) Assessment of current administrative needs in government and nonprofit agencies, social capital theory, project management and organizational learning concepts, quality improvement of public administrative practice; applied, field-based experiences. PREREQUISITES: Completion of 21 hours in PADM program, including PADM 7600 and 7601, and permission of instructor. PADM 7663 - Issue Public Mgmt Polcy (3) Special issues of current interest that relate to planning, implementation, and evaluation of programs in public and nonprofit agencies; emphasis on policy analysis techniques. PREREQUISITES: PADM 7600, 7601, 7213, or permission of instructor. PADM 7702 - Independent Study (1-3) Independent investigation of research problems or directed readings in selected areas of public administration. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. PADM 7714 - Social Entrepreneurship (3) Social entrepreneurship is a rapidly developing field of business in which entrepreneurs pursue innovative solutions to social problems. Social entrepreneurs assume a mission to create and sustain social value and impact. They draw upon fields of through in both the business and nonprofit worlds and apply an entrepreneurial lens to create innovative and sustainable social enterprises. As the traditional lines blur between nonprofits, business and government, it is critical for students to understand the opportunities, challenges, and obstacles in this new environment. Students will be expected to develop a business model for a social enterprise and an investment ?pitch? for funding it. The Socratic Methods will be used in order to promote innovative and disruptive ideas and dialog by each student in class. PADM 7996 - Thesis (1-6) The student must write and defend satisfactorily a thesis on a subject approved by the major professor and the committee. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PADM 8213 - Sem Publ Pol Analysis (3) Empirical and normative analysis of public policy at the local, state, national, and international levels, emphasizing the theories, literature, and methodologies current to this field. PREREQUISITE: PADM 7601 or equivalent or permission of instructor. PADM 8224 - Sem Urban Problems (3) Problems inherent in the growing urban developments in the United States; the governmental organization of metropolitan areas and the difficulties of coordination of government functions; proposed remedies and the reception of new approaches in selected metropolitan areas. PADM 8600 - Sem Adm Theory & Ethics (3) (POLS 7600-8600). Significance of public administration in American government; includes an introduction to formal organization theory and bureaucracy, decision-making theory, leadership and motivational theory, and current trends and problems in the study of public administration. PREREQUISITE: PADM 7661 or permission of instructor. PADM 8601 - Research Methods (3) Issues and techniques in data collection for design and implementation of independent research projects; logic of conducting research in public administration, measurement, and sampling; introduction to program evaluation and specific quantitative decision-making techniques. PADM 8602 - Public Bdgt Adm/Fin (3) Detailed study of administrative and political problems of fiscal policy, the budgetary process, and fiscal controls. PADM 8603 - Pblc/Nonprofit Contr (3) Theoretical and practical examination of projects and contracts as tools of policymaking in the public and nonprofit sectors; management projects and third party vendors; alternative mechanisms for public service delivery and an appreciation for the difficulties involved. PADM 8605 - Human Resources Admin (3) Policies, methods, and techniques utilized in public and health organizations; special attention is given to problems reflecting contemporary demands upon human resource systems, capacity to diagnose problems, select the most effective means of addressing them, and plan appropriate courses of action developed through case studies. PADM 8606 - Sem Administrative Law (3) Role and nature of administrative law, including procedural requirements and judicial review of administrative actions and liability of government for torts and breach of contract. PADM 8607 - Public Mgmt Leadership (3) Theoretical and applied aspects of public and nonprofit leadership addressed in a holistic approach; focus on the most current literature and public debate; leadership examined from various perspectives reflected across the curriculum: administrative theory, public law, finance, ethics, research methods, and public policy. PREREQUISITE: Completion of at least 24 hours, including PADM 7600 and 7601, or permission of graduate coordinator. PADM 8608 - Public Mgmt Ing Sys (3) Analysis and application of responsibilities of public organization managers; focus on technological strategies and skills for meeting those responsibilities including budget processes, information systems and dissemination, decision-making, citizen participation, and program development and evaluation. PADM 8609 - Sem Administratv Ethics (3) Introduction to ethical theories and principles as they apply to the practice of public administration, basic legal constraints such as conflict of interest laws, and more subtle ethical dilemmas that arise in the exercise of discretion of public administrators. PADM 8612 - Program/Policy Evaltn (3) Models, theories, and techniques of program and policy evaluation in public administration; evaluation research design, data collection and analysis, dissemination of results, and possible applications of evaluations to policy-making and administration; organizational and political contexts of evaluation. PREREQUISITE: PADM 7601 or permission of instructor. PADM 8614 - Interagency Collab/Adm (3) Theoretical and applied aspects of public sector administrative innovation focusing on changing intergovernmental relationships and the growing number and types of partnerships between the public and nonprofit sectors; topics include designing innovative public service programs/structures, potentials for conflict, ethical dilemmas, performance monitoring, and accountability requirements. PREREQUISITE: PADM 7600 or permission of instructor. PADM 8634 - Training/Dev Human Res (3) Organizational, group, and individual development processes and philosophy for public, nonprofit, and health care agencies; special emphasis on application of knowledge and skills. PADM 8635 - Issues Pub Human Resour (3) Special issues of current interest that relate to management, planning, and development of human resources in nonprofit and public agencies. PREREQUISITE: PADM 7600 and 7605, or permission of graduate coordinator. PADM 8641 - Thry/Prac Nonprofit Adm (3) Introduction to theoretical foundations, structures, and processes of nonprofit organizations; historical development and impact, social, political, legal, and economic environment in which nonprofit organizations exist; complexities of organizational governance shared by volunteer and professional staff decision-makers. PADM 8642 - Res Dev Nonprofit Org (3) Introduction to various resources important to nonprofit organizations including financial support, volunteers, and community awareness, and to wide range of organization activities utilized for acquisition and maintenance of these resources. PREREQUISITE: PADM 7641 or permission of instructor. PADM 8662 - Application/Public Serv (3) Assessment of current administrative needs in government and nonprofit agencies, social capital theory, project management and organizational learning concepts, quality improvement of public administrative practice; applied, field-based experiences. PREREQUISITES: Completion of 21 hours in PADM program, including PADM 7600 and 7601, and permission of instructor. PADM 8663 - Issue Public Mgmt Polcy (3) Special issues of current interest that relate to planning, implementation, and evaluation of programs in public and nonprofit agencies; emphasis on policy analysis techniques. PREREQUISITES: PADM 7600, 7601, 7213, or permission of instructor. PADM 8702 - Independent Study (1-3) Independent investigation of research problems or directed readings in selected areas of public administration. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .