#http://www.memphis.edu/parking/faq.php
Parking and Transportation Services - Parking &amp; Transportation Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parking and Transportation Services Staff Directory Permit &amp; Other Parking Lambuth/Millington Parking Resources Home Parking &amp; Transportation Services Parking and Transportation Services Frequently Asked Questions I received a citation. How do I pay for it? Can I appeal it? What if I need an accessible/disability placard? Can I get a refund on my priority parking permit? May I sell my permit? What if my permit is lost or stolen? Why do we have to pay to park? How do I obtain a parking permit or a semester validation sticker? How can I pay for the permit? I received a citation. How do I pay for it? Can I appeal it? You may mail in your payment using the addressed envelope you received with your citation or you may pay your citation in person at the Bursar's Office in the 115 Wilder Tower. The Parking Office at 120 Zach Curlin Parking Garage does not take payments of citations. You may appeal any citation received at the Parking Office at 120 Zach Curlin Parking Garage. Student Appeals are heard by the Student Government's Association. Faculty/Staff Appeals are heard by the Faculty/Staff Appeal Committee. Visitor Appeals are heard by the Parking Office Manager. What if I need an accessible/disability placard? Designated accessible parking areas are available to persons with physical disabilities who have a registered University of Memphis parking permit and a valid disabled parking permit issued to the student or employee by a State Department of Safety. No additional fee will be assessed to STUDENTS for physically disabled parking permits. The priority parking permit fee will be assessed to FACULTY/STAFF for physically disabled parking permits. This permit authorizes the permit holder to park in accessible parking spaces in priority parking lots and in other non-reserved, general permit parking spaces on campus. Can I get a refund on my priority parking permit? A refund for priority parking will not be issued after the first day of class. May I sell my permit? No. The permit is the property of the University of Memphis and cannot be reissued or resold. We do not register vehicle license plates. We register the University of Memphis permit (hang-tag) to your student account so you have the freedom to switch vehicles. Any citations received on this permit (hang-tag) will be the responsibility of the permit holder. If you are no longer in need of your permit (hang-tag), please discard or return it to the Parking Office. What if my permit is lost or stolen? A lost or stolen permit must be reported to the Parking Office as soon as possible and a replacement permit may be purchased for a $10.00 fee. The permit will then be entered into our system as lost or stolen, so anyone who uses that permit will be ticketed and/or towed. Why do we have to pay to park? Parking &amp; Transportation Services is an auxiliary unit within the Office of Business Services. This means that the department must pay for itself. Parking fees, citation revenue, meter revenue, and garage revenue provide the funds to pay for debt costs, operational costs, maintenance and construction projects. How do I obtain a parking permit or a semester validation sticker? If the student registers prior to late registration then a semester validation sticker will be mailed to the address of the student which is downloaded directly from the Records Department. If the student does not have a current permit in our database then a permit is also mailed along with the validation sticker. If the student does not receive their permit or semester validation sticker by the first day of classes, he/she must come to the Parking Office to obtain one. New employees must come the Parking Office to purchase parking. How can I pay for the permit? General Parking permits for students are included in the student's maintenance fees and are mailed to the home address, as a courtesy, to those students that register for class before the mail out deadline posted on our website prior to each term. Priority or Resident Parking must be purchased online through Tigerpark . Online purchases can be made using Visa, Mastercard, Discover, American Express or electronic check. Faculty/Staff must pay for parking in the Parking &amp; Transportation Services office and may pay with cash, check, or credit card or by payroll deduction. TigerPark Don’t wait in line…Go online! The Blue Line The Blue Line shuttle at the University of Memphis. Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place. Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .