#http://www.memphis.edu/processimprovement/doc/gov/govstructure.pdf
Student Financial Appeals Governance & Implementation Structure Administrative Process Improvement Projects Council Leadership Board Program Management Group ( PMG ) Provost , VP Student Affairs , CFO , CIO ; ex - officio : Tom Nenon , Sam Cox , Bruce Harber Bruce Harber AVP Administration Carol Laney Admissions , Student Representative Colette Williams Process Analyst / Project Manager Jan Brownlee Provost Office Latisha Jones Business Officer Maria Alam Chief HR Officer Reza Chowdhury Information Technology Services Robert Jackson ESAC / ITD Liaison Sam Cox PMG Co - Director Tom Nenon PMG Co - Director Student Term Delete Leadership Board Provides overall sponsorship , vision and guidance . Addresses issues of strategy and policy . Makes key decisions regarding organizational changes and resources allocation , and ensures changes are successfully communicated , achieved and measured for progress towards service excellence goals . Program Management Group ( PMG ) Serves as the internal UofM Process Consulting team . Manages the portfolio of projects ; promotes adherence to best practices and ensures consistency in methodology and overall alignment with UofM strategy . Identifies and recommends future process improvement projects to the Leadership board with the input of the campus - wide AVP group ; assembles project teams and coordinates team training . Project Team A specific team that is created to address a process improvement initiative . Led by a project manager and comprised of subject matter experts ( SMEs ) from the functional areas and IT , who have sound analytical skills and a desire to improve processes . Draws on expertise and assets of the PMG regarding process improvement methods and experiences . Employee Educational Benefits October 2015 Extra Compensation Active Project Teams : Door Access & Accountability Initiative 1 Project Team 1 Potential Governance & Implementation Structure Service Excellence ( SE )/ Process Improvement ( PI ) Council SE Leadership Board SE Program Management Group ( PMG ) Initiative 2 Project Team 2 Initiative 3 ... Project Team 3 ... Notes : 1 . Urgency , agility , focus , metrics = keys to successful realization of change initiatives 2 . Change Management : often action items are identified during a project ; PMG is responsible for identifying , assessing and reviewing with SE Leadership how to introduce the desired change and communicating it . SE Leadership is responsible for refining , approving , endorsing and enforcing the change initiative . 3 . Incentives individual performance goals and appraisals must include involvement of the individual in SE projects ( whether in leading / adapting to change , level of commitment / effort , knowledge , ). 4 . PMG is a virtual organization on campus .