#http://www.memphis.edu/libraries/collectionmgmt/serialsreview2015.php
Serials Review 2015 - Libraries - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Libraries About Services Resources Instruction Special Collections Technology Collection Management Department Liaisons Staff Serials Review - 2015 Textbook Selections Handbook Addendum Home Libraries Collection Management Serials Review 2015 University of Memphis Libraries Serials Review 2015 The libraries’ materials budget remains flat – as it has for the last 15 years – and we must cut a large number of serials subscriptions. The basic problem is that our serials prices grow at a rate of around 6% every year. Unless our budget grows at the same rate, we cannot sustain all our current subscriptions. This year, we aim to cut at least $600,000 from our serials expenditures. Our plan is to use a bibliometric assessment called the “Weighted Value Algorithm” (WVA) to identify those titles of least value to UofM readers. WVA was developed at the University of California and includes six variables that indicate the value of a journal to the readers at a given library. Those variables are usage, citations, Impact Factor, Source-Normalized Impact per Paper (SNIP), cost-per-use, and cost-per-SNIP. To learn more about WVA, please read this white paper from its creators, or this journal article by UofM librarians. WVA assigns a score from 0 to 7 for each journal, within the department to which the journals are attributed. That is, all the “Biology” journals will be scored separately from the “Architecture” journals. On the spreadsheet linked below, we have highlighted the journal titles we are recommending to cancel. These recommendations are based on the WVA scores. However, we recognize that WVA scores do not tell the whole story. There may be journals that are only used by a few scholars, but are essential to their work. That is why we are asking you to look over our recommendations. If we are planning to cut something vital, please contact your library liaison and let him or her know that we are making a mistake. We will extend the review period until April 24, 2015. For questions about our methodology, please contact Steve Knowlton . Department Lists (*each Department's list will download as an Excel file*) Accountancy Economics MIS Anthropology Electrical and Computer Engineering Music Architecture English Nursing Art and Art History Finance Philosophy Biology Foreign Languages and Literature Physics Biomedical Engineering Health and Sport Science Political Science Chemistry History Psychology City and Regional Planning Hospitality and Resort Management Public and Non-Profit Administration Civil Engineering Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Public Health Communication Science and Disorders Interdisciplinary Studies Social Work Communication Journalism Sociology Computer Science Leadership Theatre and Dance Counseling, Ed Psych and Research Management University College Criminology and Criminal Justice Marketing and Supply Chain Management Master List *LARGE FILE* Earth Sciences Mathematics Collection Management Department Liaisons Staff Serials Review - 2015 Textbook Selections Handbook Addendum My Library Account Review your library account for due dates and more. Interlibrary Loan Request books, articles, and other research materials from other libraries. Reserve space Group study and presentation spaces available in the library. Ask-a-Librarian Got a question? Got a problem? Ask Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .