#http://www.memphis.edu/abroad/funding/financial_aid.php
Funding - Study Abroad - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Study Abroad Programs Students J-1 Students Faculty Funding Resources News About Funding Scholarships Financial Aid Home Study Abroad Funding Funding Financial Aid for Study Abroad Using financial aid can make your study abroad experience more affordable. You must complete the Free Application for Student Aid (FAFSA) to attain aid if you have not done so already for the academic year. For semester and year programs, all normal financial aid can usually be used towards your study abroad program fees. To receive financial aid for any UofM sponsored study abroad program (either during the academic year or summer), you must: Be enrolled at least half-time (i.e. 6 credit hours for undergraduates and 5 credit hours for graduate students) NOTE: Law students are considered half-time during the summer ONLY with 3 law credit hours) Be a U.S. citizen or eligible non-citizen Be making satisfactory academic progress Not be in default on any student loan or owe a repayment on any grant Have remaining aid eligibility Have a Transfer Credit Request form on file with the Admissions Office For more information about receiving financial aid to study abroad, visit the Financial Aid Website . We encourage all students to meet with the study abroad financial aid officer, Ms. Joanna Darden ( jpullis@memphis.edu ), at least six months prior to your planned trip. Her office is located in room 103 of Wilder Tower. Summer Information If you plan to go abroad in the summer, you may be able to use financial aid as well. If you receive aid during the academic year (i.e. Fall and Spring), the financial aid office would have to consider what aid eligibility (ex. Pell Grant or Direct Loan) you may have remaining for the summer. If you are interested in a study abroad program for the summer, you should complete the Free Application for Student Aid (FAFSA), if you have not already applied for the academic year. For Federal Aid you will need to complete a Summer Request Form with the Financial Aid Office, 103 Wilder Tower. For Summer HOPE Lottery Scholarship you will need to fill out two forms with the Scholarship Office, 201 Wilder Tower. Things to Note One thing that you must keep in mind is that financial aid is disbursed according to the UofM academic schedule and will not be issued early even if your semester at your host school begins prior to the UofM semester. Financial aid does not come in time to purchase plane tickets or to fund other trip preparation costs. You will need to keep this in mind when creating your budget. In addition, if you are applying financial aid to pay your program fees due to the University of Memphis, you must provide documentation of aid prior to your invoice due date. Financial aid can only be used to pay host institution fees abroad once it is disbursed and refunded into your checking account. We cannot transmit these funds to your host university. All payments required to your host institution (often housing and deposits), are your responsibility. You must plan to meet all their deadlines, regardless of the release date of your financial aid. Funding Scholarships Financial Aid Log-In Log-In to your application Search Programs Search Study Abroad programs Scholarships Search scholarship opportunities for Study Abroad Contact Us Email, call or schedule appointments Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .