#http://www.memphis.edu/crews/fellows.php
Entrepreneur Fellows Program - Crews Center - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Crews Center for Entrepreneurship Tools Entrepreneur Training Entrepreneur Fellows Program Home Crews Center Entrepreneur Fellows Program Entrepreneur Fellows Program What is it? The Crews Center Entrepreneur Fellows program is an intensive, hands-on entrepreneurship program designed for the student who has already decided to pursue entrepreneurship as a career path. In this fellowship, students will participate in a co-curricular program that will: Help you understand and develop your entrepreneurial aptitude Learn lessons from and bond with faculty, mentors, and entrepreneurial peers Develop your entrepreneurial skills Guide you down the path to launching a venture Crews Center Entrepreneur Fellows receive a $3,500 scholarship per semester for up to four semesters. Performance is evaluated each semester; extension of the fellowship per semester is contingent upon performance and level of commitment. Is this program right for me? This is a good question, and you would be wise to be very honest with yourself about it. If your primary motivation is the associated scholarship funding, this program may not be a good fit for you. Entrepreneurship is difficult, it can be risky, and it is not for everyone. It is intensive and demands a very high level of commitment to executing the launch of a venture. Good candidates are students that have a great deal of vision, have good leadership and communications skills, and are passionate, energetic, and highly motivated to succeed. Additionally, good candidates should either have a solid idea that they have the ability to execute , or already be working with a startup that has a solid team capable of executing their idea. As an example, if you have an "idea for an app" and you do not have the ability to actually implement the app, you are not a good candidate. We see many students with great ideas, but we're looking for students that are capable of executing those great ideas. Qualification Criteria: Must be classified as an undergraduate junior or higher. Graduate students are also eligible. Must have and maintain an undergraduate GPA of 2.75 or higher. Graduate students must have and maintain a GPA of 3.0 or higher. Must have an idea or an invention to develop and the ability to develop it. Students who have already been executing on ideas at the Crews Center may receive special consideration. A track record of execution is the highest form of qualification for this fellowship. How to Apply: To apply for the Crews Center Entrepreneur Fellows Program, send an email to mhoffmyr@memphis.edu with the following: Your resume An essay describing why you want to participate in the Crews Center Fellows Program. Your essay should include your reasons for wanting to participate and what value you think you will bring to the program. It should also include a discussion of what your idea or invention is. Hint: your passion for your idea should be on display here. If you're not excited about it, we're not going to be excited about it! There is no minimum page or word count for the essay, but please limit it to 8 pages or less. You can apply anytime, but selections are only made once a year. Applications are due by December 1, 2015. Decisions will be made for Spring 2016 by December 10, 2015. Get your applications in now! Upcoming Events &gt;&gt; See what’s happening News &gt;&gt; Success stories Contact Us &gt;&gt; Call or email Find Out More &gt;&gt; Get connected Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/4/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .