#http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/graduate/pdfs/descriptions_of_placements_2015_2016.pdf
The University of Memphis Grant and Clinical Placement Options, 2015 - 2016 1 DESCRIPTIONS OF PLACEMENTS 20 1 5 2016 CLINICAL PLACEMENTS 1. U.T. Boling Center for Developmental Disabilities Director : Laura Murphy, Ed.D Contact information : lmurphy@uthsc.edu (901) 448 - 6511 Psychologist supervisors : Laura Murphy, Ed.D. Christina Warner, Ph.D., & Colby Butzon, Ph.D. Type of Placement : Clinical 1 20 hr placement s ( position cannot be split ) Prerequisites : 1) core course s completed (2) core assessment courses completed, (3) core psychotherapy courses completed , (4) Masters preferred. Must be child clinical. INTERVIEW IS REQUIRED. Description : This facility serves the needs of individuals with developmental disorders, as well as their families. This year 2 positions will be offered for the first time. The work for these two positions will be similar. Although the BCDD is obviously child - focus ed, there will be a strong effort to bring in adolescents in order to meet the training needs of students more interested in adults. Students can be involved in a number of activities, including assessment of individuals with a range of low incidence d evelopmental disabilities and integrated report write - up, CANDLE testing (integrated report is optional to student), behavior therapy and/or social skills group for children with Autism, and developmental disabilities didactics . This placement offers exce llent opportunities for various training experiences, and the staff are quite committed to student training. Should the students be interested, they have the opportunity to formulate research hypotheses and write manuscripts for the CANDLE project. Notes : Students usually have 2 - 3 supervisors. Supervision is reported by site at 4 - 5 hrs. per week. Hours may change somewhat in summer. 2 . Director : Jerlym S. Porter , Ph.D. Contact information: 595 - 7437 jerlymporter @stjude.org P sychologist supervisors : Various St Jude Psychology faculty members provide supervision Type of Placement : Clinical 1 20 - hr. placement ( position cannot be split ) Prerequisites : This should be an adv anced student in Child/Family. In this clinical position, a student will learn how to work with children and families who are dealing with the stress of a severe illness. The student should have relatively strong assessment and therapy skills. NOTE: St Jude will also consider a student for a 10 - hour volunteer practicum next year. They will ask but not require that the paid placement student spend some (volunteer) time at St Jude this summer to prepare for the fall assistantship. The University of Memphis Grant and Clinical Placement Options, 2015 - 2016 2 Description : St. J ude is a world class research hospital serving children with catastrophic illnesses. Notes : None 3 . Federal Correctional Institution, Memphis Tennessee Director : Victoria Buzzanga , Ph.D. , Chief Psycholog ist Contact information : 901 - 384 - 5527 vbuzzanga@bop.gov P sychologist supervisors : Lisa Cotton, Ph.D. Type of Placement : Clinical 1 20 - hr. placement ( position cannot be split ) Prerequisites : INTERVIEW IS REQUIRED. Because of security issues and the need for strong boundaries and professionalism, students at the FCI must have prior clinical practicum experience. It is important to understand the prison's primary function is to protect society, and those working here must be flexible in understanding t hat security is always the first priority. Description : FCI Memphis houses Medium and Minimum security male inmates of all ethnicities ranging in age from 18 to 90+. The inmates have a wide variety of psychological diagnoses. There are a large number of inmates with Axis II diagnoses. Students will also work with our education department to conduct learning disability evaluations. We will also be implementing a 96 - bed Residential Drug Abuse Program within the next year, which will give students the opportunity to both provide services in the program and supe rvise non - doctoral clinicians who also provide therapeutic services. expected to conduct several groups of their choosing, maintain a caseload of individual therapy clie nts, provide crisis intervention and brief counseling, and conduct testing (mostly intelligence and personality). They are given the freedom to design and implement groups based on their interests and some freedom in choosing the types of individual clien ts they work with. Students are also encouraged to shadow psychology staff in the performance of their duties. Students are able to use their expertise to provide consultation to other departments (education, health services, custody, etc.). The Bureau of Prisons utilizes evidence based interventions. Students are encouraged to develop basic psychological skills, with an emphasis on brief/crisis - oriented interventions and assessment. Students have a unique opportunity to work in a multi - disciplinary environment with ample opportunity to utilize their expertise to provide consultation. Students are encouraged to work on group therapy, individual therapy, and assessment skills. Notes : Students receive at least 4 hours of supervision a week in individual, group, and Bureau psychologists are required to utilize empirically supported interventions. All psychologists at FCI Memphis identify themselves as having an integ rated orientation, with CBT techniques being the most commonly utilized. The University of Memphis Grant and Clinical Placement Options, 2015 - 2016 3 4 . Daybreak Treatment Center [NEW PLACEMENT] Director : Garry Del Conte, Psy.D. Contact information : 901 - 753 - 4300 x19 gdelconte@daybreaktreatment.com 2262 South Germantown Road Germantown, TN 38138 P sychologist supervisors : Garry Del Conte, Psy .D. Type of Placement : Clinical 1 20 - hr. placement ( position cannot be split ) Prerequisites : An interview is required. Should be an advanced child student. Description : Daybreak provides partial hospital services for children, adolescents and incorporate comprehensive research adherent Dialectical Behavior Therapy throughout the milieu. Our supervisory staff have been trained through the Linehan Institute. Students would be exposed to all relevant DBT modalities including individual therapy, intersession coaching, DBT skills traing and DBT consultation group. A basic background in cogn itive behavioral therapy and behavioral analysis would be a prerequisite. Students receive about 1.5 hours of individual supervision per week. 5 . PSC Director : Jim Whelan, Ph.D. Contact information : 3736 P sychologist supervisors : Jim Whelan, Ph.D. , Neil Aronov, Ph.D., John Leite , Ph.D. Type of Placement : Clinical 2 20 - hr placements ( or several 10 hour placements ) Prerequisites : Students must be beyond their 2 nd year. Description : A range of adult and child outpatients. General psychologi cal assessment and treatment, with weekly professional development meeting . Students will be asked to support administrative functions in the clinic. They may also be asked to develop and deliver mental health related presentations to community groups. S tudents gain experience in intakes, suicide risk assessments, crisis intervention, diverse populations, wellness services, etc. Only about 30% of clients are university students. Notes : Students receive 1.5 hours of supervision, individually, in groups, and through editing of reports. 6 . The Gambling Clinic Director : Jim Whelan, Ph.D. Contact information : 3736 P sychologist supervisors : Jim Whelan, Ph.D. Type of Placement : Clinical 1 10 - hr. placement The University of Memphis Grant and Clinical Placement Options, 2015 - 2016 4 Prerequisites : Students must be beyond their first year of training and have completed our training workshop on the treatment of problem/pathological gambling Description : This student will be responsible for treating individuals presenting with gambling related pro problems. Some treatment will be delivered at other community agencies. This student will also be involved in the community outreach efforts of The Gambling Clinic. Notes : Students receive about 2 hours of group and individual supervision per week. - behavioral. 7 . Support Solutions Director: Michael Gavetti, Ph.D. Contact information : mgavetti@supportsulutionsms.com 901.383.9193 Psychologist supervisor : Michael Gavetti, Ph.D. Type of Placement : Clinical 1 20 hr. placement Prerequisites : Some clinical experience . Description : Support Solutions is a regional human services agency, currently operating in Tennessee, Arkansas, Georgia, and scheduled to move into Mississippi in 2012. Although the core business is in supporting adults with developmental disabilities in community pl acements (i.e. homes or apartments rather than institutions), they offer many other services as well. Some examples include outpatient mental health services, adult employment services, elder care, and they are scheduled to open their own medical clinic i n 2012. Their mental health center is doing a lot of specialized work. In addition to dual diagnosis treatment (MH/MR), they are also offering psychotherapy to sex offenders and even some d ialectical behavior therapy. This placement will provide the oppo rtunity to see a wide range of client psychopathology and experience in group work. There also are opportunities to work on research projects related to the services that they provide. Support Solutions currently have two full - time psychologists and are un dergoing rapid growth. Notes : . The materials for this company look excellent the fact that training is essential, and they seem to be on board. 8 . HABIT lab Director : Jim Murphy, Ph.D. Contact information : jgmurphy@memphis.edu 678 - 2630 P sychologist supervisors : James Murphy, Ph.D. Type of Placement : Research & clinical ; multiple ~ 80 hours total Prerequisites : Some training in MI is ideal but not required . Description : These positions are for active NIH grant s, which evaluate brief motivational intervention s for alcohol and marijuana abuse among young The University of Memphis Grant and Clinical Placement Options, 2015 - 2016 5 adults. Responsibilities will inclu de conducting assessments and brief alcohol interventions, along with participant recruitment and retention . Notes : Students will receive 2 hours of supervision a week in a group format. The orientation of the supervisor is motivational interviewing, along with a behavioral economic intervention component. 9 . LeBonheur Pediatric Obesity Clinic Director : Idia Thurs ton , Ph.D. and Joan Han, MD. Contact information : ithursto@uthsc.edu / jhan14@uthsc.edu ; 901 - 678 - 4690 / 901 - 287 - 6408 P sychologist supervisors : Idia Thurston, Ph.D. Type of Placement : Research & clinical ; 2, twenty - hour placements Prerequisites : Required: Students should have taken basic statistics courses; have prior research experience; and assessment/clinical interviewing experience Preferred : Experience working with patients in a medical setting and/ or with interprofessional teams; motivational interviewing experience/training; prior research or clinical experience in the area of overweight/obesity Description : Students will have opportunities to work in a multidisciplinary medical clinic with a rang e of interprofessionals including physicians, nurse practitioners, psychologists, exercise physiologists, dietitians, social workers, chaplains, and physical therapists. The goal of the newly formed LeBonheur Pediatric Obesity Program is to provide evidenc e - based multidisciplinary clinical care (including: assessment and treatment - individual & groups) for children, adolescents, and families in the Healthy Lifestyle Clinic. In addition to clinical care, the Pediatric Obesity Program has primary goals to: a) conduct highly impactful basic and applied research on factors associated with and contributing to overweight and obesity, b) conduct prevention and intervention programming within the local Memphis community including schools, and c) train/educate residen ts and other primary care providers on strategies for providing quality care for overweight and obese youth and families. Students on this placement will have opportunities to work directly with interprofessional teams in the areas of: clinical care (inter disciplinary assessment/ diagnostic evaluations, individual therapy, brief - behavioral interventions, psycho - educational group interventions, consultation with medical teams), research (literature reviews, data management & analysis, paper & grant writing), community programming/intervention development, as well as resident 10 . Focus Treatment Center Director s : Siri Khalsa - Zemel, MS, RD, LDN, Director; Bethany Spiller, Ph.D. Clinical Director Contact information : bethanys@focustn.com focustreatmentcenters.com 699 Oakleaf Office Lane, Suite 104 | Memphis, TN 38117 P sychologist supervisors : Bethany Spiller , Ph.D. Type of Placement : C linical ; 1 10 hr The University of Memphis Grant and Clinical Placement Options, 2015 - 2016 6 Prerequisites : group facilitation preferred by not required, foundational knowledge about eating disorders, experience with adolescents and adults preferred but not required . Description : This is an intensive outpatient eating disorder facility that provides services to adolescents and adults with anorexi a and bulimia. The placement provide intensive experience with group therapy as well as integrated assessment and treatment planning. 11 . Behavioral Science Consulting [NEW PLACEMENT] Director : Bill Fulliton, Ph.D. Contact information : 901 628 1020, drfulliton@yahoo.com P sychologist supervisors : Bill Fulliton, Ph.D. Type of Placement : Clinical two 1 0 hr. placements Prerequisites : Students should have a strong foundation in assessment and be able to lea rn new assessment methods rapidly. Strong writing skills and ability to work independently are important. This placement is best for a more advanced student. Description : This private practice conducts assessments for the evaluation of disability. Stud ents are required to be able to administer intellectual assessments and conduct diagnostic interviews at the time they are placed. During the placement, students do clinical interviews, mental status exams, and also use the WISC - IV, WAIS - IV, WPPSI - III, WM S - IV, and the Bayley Scales of Infant Development - 3. Each evaluation includes an integrated report. Students on a 10 - hour per week assignment can expect to conduct at least 100 evaluations during the course of a year. Students will see African American an d Caucasian clients ranging in age from 6 months to 65 years. Most of them are poor. Many will have co - occurring medical problems. C lients present a wide range of diagnostic conditions including mood disorders, psychotic disorders, mental retardation, memo ry disorders, and substance abuse. Students will also learn some techniques to evaluate for malingering. 12. West Clinic Cancer Center (Methodist and UT Hospital System ) Director : Janice Pazar, Ph.D., RN, Contact information : 901 683 - 0055, Jpazar@Westclinic.com P sychologist supervisors : Janice Pazar, Ph.D., RN, Type of Placement : Clinical, one 20 hour placement Prerequisites : Experience wit h health behavior interventions , smoking cessation, and clinical experience in medical settings is desirable. Description: Health behavior interventions and supportive therapy with individuals receiving treatment for cancer. CLINICAL RESEARCH PLACEMENTS The University of Memphis Grant and Clinical Placement Options, 2015 - 2016 7 1 . Clinical Research Director : Jerlym S. Porter, Ph.D. Contact information: 595 - 7437 jerlymporter @stjude.org P sychologist supervisors : Various St Jude Psychology faculty members provide supervision Type of Placement : Research 5 20 - hr. positio ns Prerequisites : These placements are designed for the doctoral student in a cl inical child/adolescent, family, clinical health or school program with intention toward a career in pediatric/health psychology as a clinical investigator in an academic hospital/clinic - based setting. It is preferrable for a student to be versed in research methods, have a general understanding of statistics, know how to conduct a literature search, be meticulous with regard to data entry/monitoring, have good professional /scientific writing skills, and if having patient contact, already have gained clinical interviewing experience, especially with child patients. Understanding of randomized controlled clinical trials research is helpful, and thorough understanding of clini cal and research ethics are expected. Description : As SJCRH is primarily a specialty children's cancer hospital, research emphasis is on pediatric cancers (leukemia, lymphoma, brain tumor and CNS neoplasms, and bone marrow transplantation), pediatric canc er survivorship (5 years post - treatment and later), and most recently adults with long - term pediatric cancer survivorship). However, SJCRH also serves regional populations with pediatric perinatally acquired HIV and behaviorally acquired HIV via high risk means during adolescence, age newborn through age 24, and also sickle cell disease. The latter two populations reside in the surrounding Memphis region, while the cancer population and survivors often come in from out of state/country and are housed loca lly while receiving treatment/follow up care. Students are matched with a faculty supervisor based on research interest and skill level and integrated into each faculty member's research team ; thus , training experiences are unique to the mentor's area of research, state of ongoing studies, student skill level , and professional goals. Student research practicum activities may include any or all of the following: literature searches/reviews, medical chart abstraction, informed consent, data collection, data entry/verification, ad hoc analyses, preparation of data for presentation and/or publication, contributions toward submitted abstracts, posters, and manuscripts commensurate with student skill development, interest, enthusiasm, and productivity. 2 . Gam bling Grant , Clinical Research Director : Jim Whelan, Ph.D. Contact information : 3736 P sychologist supervisors : Jim Whelan, Ph.D. Type of Placement : Research The University of Memphis Grant and Clinical Placement Options, 2015 - 2016 8 2 20 - hr position (hours can be split among students) 1 10 - hr position Prerequisites : Background in the empirical literature related to gambling behavior and related pathology. . Description : This grant involves outreach and treatment around gambling related issues. Our goal is to increas e public awareness about gambling related problems and to provide treatment for those with gambling problems. We also maintain a treatment outcome data base and conduct research with our community partners. Notes : cognitiv e - behavioral. 3 . HABIT lab , Clinical Research Director : Jim Murphy, Ph.D. Contact information : jgmurphy@memphis.edu 678 - 2630 P sychologist supervisors : James Murphy, Ph.D. Type of Placement : Research Various 1 0 and 20 - hr. positions Prerequisites : None Description : These po grant s , which focuses on an interventions for alcohol and marijuana abuse among young adults . Student s can be involved in clinical assessment , participant recruitment, assistance with literature searches, data analysis, manuscript prepara tion, and assisting with a multi - site clinical trial. Notes : Students in the research placement will not conduct interventions but still have the opportunity to participate in supervision and g ain assessment hours . 4 . University of Tennessee Health Science Center, Center for Population Sciences (UTHSC - CPS), Clinical Research [NEW PLACEMENT] Director: Robert C. Klesges, Ph.D. Supervisors (points of contact): Karen Derefinko, Ph.D. Clinical Psychologist. Research interests: Substance use and conduct problems. Phone: 901.448.2526 ; Email: kderefin@uthsc.edu . Rebecca Krukowski, Ph.D. Clinical Psychologist. Research interests: Behavioral weight control interventions , gestational weight gain . Phone: 901.448.2426 ; Email: rkrukows@uthsc.edu . Melissa Little, Ph.D., M.P.H., Preventive Medicine. Research interests: Smoking cessation, nicotine, tobacco, and marijuana use. Phone: 901.448.6878 ; Email: mlittl18@uthsc.edu . Medicine faculty directory: Type of Placement: Research The University of Memphis Grant and Clinical Placement Options, 2015 - 2016 9 3 possible positions, 10 or 20 - hr positions available Prerequisites : These pla adolescent or adult program with interests in substance use (nicotine and tobacco, alcohol, marijuana) or obesity. The placement is designed to introduce students to the duties of acad emic clinicians working in medical settings. It is imperative for a student to be well versed in research methods, including literature searches, scientific writing, assessment of fidelity, and basic supervision skills. Working understanding of clinical tr ials research and clinical and research ethics is expected. Description: The Center for Population Sciences currently conducts three large scale research projects in conjunction with the United States Air Force. These projects include three broad areas, including weight loss, smoking cessation, and the reduction of problematic alcohol use. Each of these studies have involved intervention and study protocol development, and are now at the stage of monitoring ongoing interventions and study procedures, incl uding fidelity and efficacy assessment. All of the interventions are conducted at Air Force Technical Training bases located throughout the country. These placements involve only research skills, as none of these interventions are conducted in the Memphis area. The UTHSC - CPS faculty have also been involved in numerous completed research studies outside of the Air Force, which provide other opportunities for manuscript writing. In addition, there are several pending grants that would be conducted in the Memp his area, which may begin early as the fall of 2015. Students are matched with a faculty supervisor based on research interest and specific skills. Students will gain experience directly related to the research project and mentor they were matched with; therefore, each research experience will be study - specific. Opportunities are available to work with more than one research mentor on various projects, depending upon interests and logistics. Depending upon the placement match, progress of the ongoing stud y, and student experience and ability, students will gain experience with problem - solving alternative study design (e.g., how to conduct research in the United States Air Force), conducting intervention fidelity ratings (content and motivational interviewi ng strategies), assessment measure development, manuscript writing, grant writing, and preparation of data for presentation and/or publication. It is our goal to offer a wide range of experiences and to have students feel that they are an active voice and contributing member of the research team. 5 . RA Position in Your Mentor Lab . First year students will be - year student, please indica You may also be interested in being considered for a RA position in the lab of another professor who does not have an incoming first year student. TEACHING AND TA PLACEMENTS 1. TA Clinical Assessment Abilities and Achievement, Instructor, Dr. Katie Howell (10 hours; note it is possible we will be able to support a second 10 hour TA that is split between the two assessment classes ) The University of Memphis Grant and Clinical Placement Options, 2015 - 2016 10 The TA for Clinical Assessment: Abilities and Achievemen t will be primarily responsible for overseeing the weekly assessment lab during which the TA will review test administration, scoring and interpretation; provide feedback on in - class practice administrations; and offer guidance on report writing. The TA wi ll also assist me in providing feedback on student's videotaped test administration and scoring, coordinating assessment volunteers, and developing practice materials. The TA should have experience with administering both adult and child assessments, inclu ding the WAIS, WISC, WJ, and WIAT. 2. TA Clinical Assessment Case Conceptualization, Instructor, Dr. Meghan McDevitt - Murphy (10 hours; note it is possible we will be able to support a second 10 hour TA that is split between the two assessment classes) . The TA will be primarily responsible for overseeing the weekly lab during which the TA will develop and guide the students through activities that relate to course material (e.g., basic interviewing skills, test interpretation). The TA will also review video recordings of student interviews and provide detailed feedback. To be prepared for this position, candidates must have familiarity with the MMPI - 2 - RF and PAI scales as well as good clinical interviewing skills. 3. Other u ndergraduate or graduate Research Design or Statistics TA position (10 hours). 4. Undergraduate Course Instructor position (10 hours). If you have taken the teaching of psychology course, please indicate if you are interested in serving as the primary instructor for a course. If you have any questions, feel fre e to talk with Dr. Murphy and with your advisor . Additionally, a great source of information is the student who is just now completing the placement you are considering.