#http://www.memphis.edu/libraries/collectionmgmt/handbook_addendum.php
Handbook Addendum - Libraries - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Libraries About Services Resources Instruction Special Collections Technology Collection Management Department Liaisons Staff Serials Review - 2015 Textbook Selections Handbook Addendum Home Libraries Collection Management Handbook Addendum UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS – TEXTBOOK AFFORDABILITY &amp; ACCESSIBILITY The faculty handbook (Chapter 5) states that, When requesting student acquisition of course content resources (e.g. textbook, readings, online materials, etc.) it is imperative that faculty take into consideration a broad range of course content accessibility issues including, but not limited to, cost, format, platform, and availability. Faculty are strongly encouraged to insure course content resources can be readily available for student use in a common area, such as the University Libraries' reserve rooms or electronic reserves system, with disability-related accessibility for all users at all times, on all devices. LIBRARY RESERVES One way to make your textbooks available at no cost to students is to use the University Libraries' reserves. You can make print books or electronic materials available to your students at McWherter Library or the nearest branch library. To place material on reserve in McWherter Library Please see or call x2205 for more information. To place material on reserve in a branch library, please use the following contact information to learn more: Health Sciences Library: jmswrngn@memphis.edu Lambuth Campus Library: x1957, or 731-425-1957 / jrwood5@memphis.edu Law Library: x5462 / hbailey@memphis.edu Math Library: x2385 / rmmoore@memphis.edu Music Library: x2330 / flara@memphis.edu OPEN TEXTBOOKS There are many resources for "open textbooks." Open textbooks are electronic books offered at no cost to instructors or students. You may find they meet your curriculum needs. The following links are provided for your information; no endorsement by the university is implied or expressed. This list is not exhaustive. Open Textbook Library Hosted by University of Minnesota, with contributions from scholars at Purdue, Cal Poly, Oregon State, Oklahoma, Ohio State, Virginia Tech, Arizona, and others OpenStax College Peer-reviewed content published by Rice University Multimedia Educational Resource for Learning and Online Teaching (Merlot) A collection of free and open online teaching, learning, and faculty development services, curated by California State University Flat World Knowledge Open textbooks by leading scholars that are customizable to match your course outline. The Orange Grove Open textbooks that have been reviewed by the University Press of Florida ACCESSIBLE COURSE MATERIALS When assigning course materials, keep in mind that students with disabilities may not be able to access certain types of materials. If you are assigning materials that rely on innovative technology, please contact the office of Disability Resources for Students to make sure the materials are adaptable for students with disabilities. Disability Resources for Students: or x2880. Collection Management Department Liaisons Staff Serials Review - 2015 Textbook Selections Handbook Addendum My Library Account Review your library account for due dates and more. Interlibrary Loan Request books, articles, and other research materials from other libraries. Reserve space Group study and presentation spaces available in the library. Ask-a-Librarian Got a question? Got a problem? Ask Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .