#http://blogs.memphis.edu/libraries/2014/10/
University of Memphis Libraries | Archives | 2014 | October Main menu Skip to content Home University of Memphis Libraries News and Events Search for: Monthly Archives: October 2014 Oct 21 2014 More Ways to Connect to Your Libraries&#8217; Resources! Posted by jschnbel We hope you had a pleasant Fall Break! As the semester progresses, we continue to offer additional ways to connect students and faculty to our resources. The University Libraries has arranged for a trial of BrowZine, a new app for mobile devices,  until November 21, 2014 . BrowZine allows users to access our paid electronic periodical content through their mobile devices in a display that emulates physical bookshelves. Sample screen from BrowZine app Here’s how to try BrowZine: From your iPad, iPhone (please note that BrowZine works best on iPad 2 or later), or Android device, download BrowZine from the App Store, Google Play, or Kindle/Amazon store and install it. When you open BrowZine for the first time, you will see a list of schools.  Select the  University of Memphis , then enter your user ID and password (same as for other University Libraries&#8217; resources). Choose the subject areas and start browsing! Don’t forget to let us know what you think of BrowZine by leaving a comment on the blog or e-mailing Cody Behles at cbehles@memphis.edu. For help finding subject-specific resources, you can explore our collection of customized online research guides. Themes of recent guides include  Network Science , the  Sociology of Gender , and  Tiger Blue Goes Green: Sustainability . The next time you’re in McWherter Library, be sure to browse our two New Additions bookcases located on either side of the Circulation desk. Acquired titles are also posted on our  Pinterest  page and often highlighted on  Twitter  and  Facebook . Research question? Keep calm and ask a librarian! Whether you are working at home or  on-campus , the University Libraries&#8217; staff is happy to help with your research. Visit our  Ask a Librarian  page for a list of FAQs and multiple ways to contact us including text, chat, and e-mail; there’s even a form you can submit if you’re having  technical difficulties  with the Libraries’ online resources. For writing help, please make an appointment with the  Center for Writing and Communication  located near the reference desk on the first floor of McWherter Library. Happy researching! Posted in Events , Homepage , News , Research and Instructional Services , Trial Resources | Leave a comment | Oct 07 2014 New Technology, Resources, and Programs Posted by jschnbel Emerging Technologies Librarian Cody Behles teaches students about 3D printing  Memphis Daily News , September 16, 2014 The University Libraries continues to connect our students with current technology to improve teaching and learning. We have added GoPro cameras (available to students for check out at Circulation) and a 3D printing lab (students can schedule a training session  here ) for the fall semester. Read more about the Libraries’ new devices in the Memphis Daily News . Great database news! University of Memphis students and faculty can use the Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Databases to conduct research across multiple business-related disciplines. Click here  for more information and to apply for a WRDS account. In addition, members the U of M community now have access to the biology module of the Journal of Visualized Experiments (JOVE) , the world&#8217;s first peer reviewed scientific video journal. The University Libraries recently acquired a collection of papers from the administration of Tennessee Governor Winfield Dunn (1971-1975). A selection of photographs, speeches, telegrams, and other materials will be on display on the first floor of McWherter Library until Tuesday, October 28. Researchers can also visit the free Internet Archive to read digitized oral histories of the Dunn administration conducted by Dr. Charles Crawford, Department of History. Join us in McWherter Library on Friday, October 17, 2:30 p.m. for the first presentation in our new University Libraries’ Faculty/Staff Research Seminar series! Historian and librarian Dr. Mark Danley will share his research on strategic thought and the history of books and reading in the eighteenth-century British army. Free and open to the public. On Tuesday, November 11, 5:30-7:00 p.m . the Friends of the University Libraries will present a special Veterans Day reception and lecture on the fourth floor of McWherter to coincide with the exhibition, “From Active Duty to Veteran: Honoring Military Service in America” (on view November 3-January 16). Dr. Mark Danley will speak on “War, Peace, History, and Memory: Military Service in the American Experience.” Free and open to the public. For additional Veterans Day events on campus, click  here . Thank you to all who attended our Banned Books Week events and visited the display in the rotunda. In case you missed it, you can view our Facebook photos here.  A special shout-out to our friends in the Loewenberg School of Nursing for allowing Professor Bones to participate! Posted in Events , Exhibition , Homepage , News , Research and Instructional Services , Special Collections , Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Search for: Recent Posts New to the Libraries Maymester at the Libraries Extended Library Hours During Exam Week The University Libraries Hosts Faculty Scholarship Week, April 13 &#8211; 17 The University Libraries Celebrates Women&#8217;s History Month 2015 Archives September 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 Categories Alerts Branch Libraries Events Exhibition Homepage News Research and Instructional Services Special Collections Trial Resources Uncategorized Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS blogs.memphis.edu &copy; University of Memphis Libraries Skip to toolbar University of Memphis University Home Memphis Blogs Blogging Help Log In Search