#http://www.memphis.edu/cshe/
Center For The Study of Higher Education - Center For The Study of Higher Education - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Center For The Study of Higher Education CCSEQ Staff Home Center For The Study of Higher Education Center For The Study of Higher Education Dr. Mitsunori Misawa, Interim Director Email : mmisawa@memphis.edu 304 Browning Hall The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: .901.678.4060 Fax: .901.678.4291 The purpose of the Center for the Study of Higher Education is to study, promote and support life-long learning. This interest extends to both formal and informal post-secondary learning opportunities, to both institutional and individual efforts, and to both developmental needs and organizational needs. One of the primary areas on which the Center focuses is leadership development. The Center's definition of leadership, written by our distinguished former Director, Patricia H. Murrell, is as follows: Leadership is the capacity to discern and develop one’s resources, whether human or material. It further involves marshaling those resources in resolving a problem, realizing a vision, or achieving a goal. It starts with who we are and then moves to what we do. Education is the most powerful tool in the leader’s repertoire. This purpose affirms the Center’s role in fulfilling the mission of The University of Memphis to be a major metropolitan research university and the academic center of the Mid-South region. As the University develops its own role as a major metropolitan research institution and shapes its purpose as the academic hub of the Mid-South region, the Center for the Study of Higher Education will remain a vital component in the activities of the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences. It will provide support for graduate and professional education in a growing field of study serving the region, the field of higher and adult education, and integrate its efforts with those of the University as a whole in fostering inter-institutional collaborations and shared projects and programs that benefit the area that The University of Memphis serves. Specifically, the Center joins the University in its commitment to providing excellent undergraduate, graduate, and professional education; in discovering and disseminating knowledge; in serving the metropolitan community, state and nation; in preparing students for successful careers and meaningful participation in a global society; in educating a diverse student body; and in promoting access without regard to race, gender, religion, national origin, age, disability, or veteran status. The Center features the Community College Student Experiences Questionnaire (CCSEQ). This instrument is used by community college leaders to examine student "quality of effort" regarding curricular and extra-curricular activities. CCSEQ data is commonly used to assess institutional effectiveness for program planning and accreditation information. Additionally, many doctoral students have used the questionnaire for their dissertation research. Awards Calendar Button Users Button Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .