#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/pdfs/pathwaytolicensure/aswbgrouppracticetst.pdf
order online: info@aswb.orgorder by phone: 888.579.3926Group Review Practice Exam Available only to CSWE-accredited schools of social work ASWB is pleased to offer a special program for social work educators trying to help their students better understand the licensing exams. The new group review practice exams for the bachelors, masters and clinical social work licensing exams are available exclusively to faculty and staff of CSWE-accredited programs.The group review exam was designed to be one component of an overall exam orientation program. When a social work program purchases access to the group practice exam, ASWB provides a password that is valid for six months, beginning on the date it is first used. That password can be shared among social work faculty, career development and continuing education staff of the same program. The password gives you access to 170 questions, answers, and rationales over the Internet. Instructors can use an Internet-connected computer and digital projector to review the questions with their students.The software displays the question, then the answer and rationale with the click of a mouse. You can navigate to any question within the set, so picking up where you left off during the last session is easy, and the questions can be reviewed out of sequence. The group practice exam is not scored, so you can pick and choose individual questions for discussion and review, rather than going over the entire set. An overview of our examination program A user™s guide that explains how sample questions are best used in the context of exam preparation Our complete Candidate Handbook All three of these documents can be printed and distributed as you see fit.Access to an single exam (Bachelors, Masters or Clinical) is $300.00. Access to all three exams is discounted to $800.00. We can take orders over the phone, and will accept Visa, Mastercard, or Discover. This product is ONLY available to CSWE-accredited or candidacy schools. Access to a single exam costs $300, which buys access for 6 months (beginning from the first access date). Access to all three exams for 6 months costs $800. These group review exams contain the same content as our online practice exam (which is intended for individual use and provides users with a score and diagnostic report). The password for the group review practice exam should NOT be distributed to students, and individual students should not be using the group review practice exam for personal study. Accounts that show patterns of use indicating a violation of this rule will be suspended immediately.