#http://www.memphis.edu/aleks/learning-module/
ALEKS Prep and Learning Module - ALEKS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Assessment and Learning in Knowledge Spaces About Take Exam Interpret Your Results Learning Module Home ALEKS Learning Module All about the Prep and Learning Module What is the ALEKS Prep and Learning Module? After the assessment, a targeted Prep and Learning Module is available for you to review and learn material, and to improve placement and eventual course outcomes. Why would I use the ALEKS Prep and Learning Module? If you do not place into the desired math course, the Prep and Learning Module may assist you in reaching the required minimum score for placement into the course. All students are strongly encouraged to spend several hours using the ALEKS Prep and Learning Module. Even if you have achieved placement in your desired course, time spent in ALEKS will better prepare you for your upcoming course and ultimately lead to better grades. Does progress in an ALEKS Prep and Learning Module count toward placement? No, you must complete a new placement assessment to change your placement result. Click on the Placement tab on the upper right of the page from within ALEKS. Only your placement assessment results will be used for course placement. Is there a fee for the Prep and Learning Module available through ALEKS? The 6-month Prep and Learning Module is free to all University of Memphis students as a means of improving math knowledge and retention. You log into the Prep and Learning Module through the Student tab in myMemphis. How does the Prep and Learning Module work? Once you complete the initial ALEKS assessment, you will be assigned a Prep and Learning Module to review and learn math concepts. After you begin the learning module, you will work on increasing your math knowledge until you are satisfied with your progress. Along the way, you will see progress reports that indicate your current knowledge level. At any point you may choose to complete a new assessment by clicking on the placement tab on the upper right of the page within ALEKS. If you achieve your desired score for the course your advisor recommended, you may choose to stop the Prep and Learning Module. If you do not receive your desired score, you may continue using the Prep and Learning Module for the full 6-month period to achieve the desired score. Can I retake the ALEKS Placement Assessment immediately? You must wait 48 hours after your initial placement assessment before attempting another. There is generally no benefit to retaking the assessment immediately after completing a prior attempt. Unlike the SAT or ACT, you cannot improve your results by simply retaking the assessment without spending time in the Prep and Learning Module to refresh material that you may have forgotten or to learn new material. Once I begin the Prep and Learning Module, is there a minimum amount of time required before taking another assessment? The second assessment may be started 48 hours after the first assessment. However, we encourage students to spend several hours in the Prep and Learning Module before taking another assessment. Most students do not improve their score until they utilize the Prep and Learning Module to work on their math skills. Before the third ALEKS assessment, students must work in the Learning Module for 3 hours. Between the third and fourth assessment, students must work in the Learning Module for at least 3 hours. After the fourth assessment, students must work at least 3 hours in the learning module before they can take the fifth assessment. Students who do not complete 3 hours in the learning module after the second, third, or fourth assessment will not be able to take the next one. How long can I use the ALEKS Prep and Learning Module? Once students begin the Prep and Learning Module, they may use it for up to 6 months. Students using the learning module should check the email account provided to ALEKS for reminders about the amount of time remaining in the learning module. Can I receive additional time in the Learning Module? Once the 6-month period is up, students cannot receive additional time in the learning module. How long is my ALEKS assessment score valid? Your placement result is valid for 6 months. Math is a discipline that requires practice. After 6 months, students who have not taken a college-level math course need to retake the ALEKS assessment so that they can be sure to take the math course that is best for their skills and knowledge. Technical Support How do I get technical support for ALEKS? Disability Related Services Who to contact for accomodations. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .