#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/hist.php
History - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning History History ARAM GOUDSOUZIAN, PhD Chair Room 221, Mitchell Hall 901.678.2720 DANIEL UNOWSKY, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies dunowsky@memphis.edu I. The Department of History offers programs of study leading to the Master of Arts degree and the Doctor of Philosophy degree with a major in History. We specialize in U.S. (especially African American) history and European history, with offerings in Asian, Latin American, Russian, African, women/gender, and global history; we also offer a concentration in Ancient Egyptian history. Program objectives are: (1) development of the ability to think and write historically about contemporary and past problems and issues, to handle the evidentiary basis for historical arguments, to use primary and secondary sources; (2) acquisition of an appreciation of the diversity of human experience and a sympathetic understanding of at least one non-U.S. culture; (3) ability to make an evaluative presentation of historical material; (4) production of a publishable-quality piece of writing (Ph.D.); and (5) preparation for positions related to the discipline of history (e.g., teaching, librarian, researcher, etc.) for those graduates who seek such employment. The Graduate Admissions Committee evaluates MA applications three times a year and PhD applications twice a year. All PhD and MA applications for Spring semester are due by September 15. All PhD applications for Summer and Fall and all MA applications from those seeking an assistantship are due by January 15, which is also the deadline for the separate assistantship application. We will also accept MA applications up to April 15 for the following summer and fall, but we do not consider such applications for assistantships. Only in exceptional circumstances will we renew an assistantship beyond two academic years for MA students, three academic years for PhD students who have not completed their Comprehensive Exams, or five years in total for PhD students. For a full description of our graduate program, its requirements, and our faculty, see the History Department's Guide for Graduate Students at . All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MA Degree Program The MA program of study in history is a flexible one that prepares students for a variety of careers. We expect full-time students to complete the degree in two academic years. Students who regard the MA as a terminal degree normally elect to fulfill its requirements by 33 hours of course enrollment without writing a thesis. Most of these students go on to teaching positions on the secondary and community college level; a smaller number enter government service at all levels; and some secure specialized positions in business, industry, and journalism. Those students preparing for teaching on the university level or related careers in research and writing should look upon the MA program as preparation for advanced graduate study. We thus urge them to write a thesis. A. Program Admission In making our decisions on admission we consider multiple factors, including transcripts and GPA, the nature of your coursework, recommendations, your writing sample and statement, your MAT or GRE scores (particularly the GRE Verbal and Analytical Writing sections), and the compatibility of our program and faculty with your interests. In most cases, you will need 18 hours in history from an accredited institution with at least a 3.0 PGA (on a 4.0 scale) in all undergraduate history courses, although we may also consider coursework in related fields. In addition to submitting your application and all transcripts to the Graduate School, you should submit the following, the first to the Graduate School and the rest to the History Department: Official scores from the MAT or from the GRE (which should include the Analytical Writing section). Two letters of recommendation evaluating your academic ability. A writing sample, such as a paper from a course, that demonstrates your ability to write and think about history. A letter from you explaining your major field(s) of interest in history (chosen from the list of PhD fields below), any particular interests, and your reasons for seeking the MA degree. B. Program Requirements A total of 33 hours. For the student electing to write a thesis, this includes 9 hours of thesis credit. No more than 9 hours of thesis credit may count toward the degree. No more than 6 hours at the 6000 level. At least one 7000-level historiography course in any field and at least one HIST 7070 seminar. Only 3 hours can be History 7012, although we may accept 6 hours in special circumstances by petition to the Coordinator of Graduate Studies. HIST 7991 does not count toward the degree. No more than 6 hours may be taken, with the approval of the Coordinator of Graduate Studies, in a field outside history. Under special circumstances students may petition for up to an additional 6 hours. No more than 24 hours may be taken in United States History, European History, or any one field of history, such as Ancient History. No grade of C+ or lower may count toward the required number of credits. An oral Comprehensive Examination over course work given by a committee chosen by the Graduate Advisor and the student. Online only students take a written exam instead. For those who elect to write a thesis, approval by a department committee headed by the faculty member who directed the thesis. All theses are based upon primary research and are typically between 16,000 and 25,000 words in length. NOTE: Students electing to write a thesis should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. C. Concentration in Ancient Egyptian History ( Note: "Concentration" refers to a specific program in this area. It does not imply that this is our only area of specialization.) Beyond the core requirements, students choosing this concentration must take 18 hours of MA level courses with a focus on ancient Egypt; this includes 9 hours of thesis credit for those writing a thesis. As part of the 18 credits, students must take two semesters of basic Middle Egyptian (ARTH 7115 and 7116), plus two more semesters of readings from ancient Egyptian texts. Courses in ancient art, archaeology, and language (taught in the Art, Earth Sciences, and/or Foreign Language departments) may count as being in field(s) separate from the field of ancient history. Admission into the graduate program in history does not automatically ensure admission into this concentration. The approval of the department's Egyptologists is also necessary, so students should contact them directly. D. The Online M.A. Program The History Department also offers an online MA degree program in which all the degree requirements may be completed online. Admission requirements are the same as for the on-campus MA program, but you must specify in your application and the required letter discussing your interests that you are applying for the online MA degree. Requirements for the online MA degree are also the same as for the on-campus MA with the following exceptions for those who take all their credits online: a) the thesis option is not normally available to online students; b) online students may apply up to 9 hours of 6000-level history courses to the degree; and c) online students take a written exam comprehensive exam. III. PhD Degree Program The Department of History also offers a program of study built upon the MA degree leading to the PhD degree. The program is designed to provide wide knowledge in two fields, more intensive preparation in a third field, and professional competence in original research and writing that will prepare the student for teaching and research in higher education or for a career in government, business, library service, and other research-related fields. A. Program Admission In making our decisions on admission we consider multiple factors, including transcripts and GPA, the nature of your coursework, recommendations, your writing sample and statement, your GRE scores (particularly the Verbal and Analytical Writing sections), the compatibility of our program with your interests, and availability of faculty to supervise your major field. In most cases, you will need 24 graduate hours in history with at least a 3.25 GPA (on a 4.0 scale) from an accredited institution, or a M.A. in a related field that we judge as sufficient preparation for our PhD program. We strongly recommend an MA in history. In addition to submitting your application and all transcripts to the Graduate School, you should submit the following, the first to the Graduate School and the rest to the History Department: Official GRE scores, which should include the Analytical Writing section. A 750-1000 work “Statement of Purpose,” in which you explain your educational goals, anticipated fields of study, and general research interests. In this statement, we expect you to demonstrate some familiarity with the history department’s program and faculty. Three letters of recommendation commenting on your academic ability and suitability for PhD work. A writing sample, consisting either of a MA thesis or a paper written for a graduate course in history (preferred) or a related field. As part of the admission process, the Graduate Admissions Committee will seek input from department members in the applicant's field of interest. B. Advising The Coordinator of Graduate Studies will advise students when they first enroll. During the first school year enrolled, and whenever possible within the first semester, each student will choose an advisory committee to be composed of a major professor with full graduate faculty rank and at least two other faculty members. This committee assists the student in determining such matters as fields of study, the choice of courses, acceptance of transfer credit, and acceptance of credit from the master’s degree. The committee provides all of its decisions in writing with copies to the student and to the Coordinator of Graduate Studies. C. Foreign Language All students whose major field is not in U.S. history must demonstrate reading proficiency in one foreign language, whenever possible one directly related to the dissertation field. Proficiency consists of acceptably translating a selection from a historical work or source. The advisory committee may require the student to demonstrate reading knowledge in two or more foreign languages. It will be up to the advisory committee to determine whether students in U.S. history must demonstrate proficiency in a foreign language. D. Fields of Study The student will choose, in consultation with the advisor, three fields of study, one of which will be designated the dissertation field. The advisory committee will consult with the student and determine what and how many courses will be required in each field. In addition to the courses required in III.D.1., the student must take near the end of coursework 3 credit hours of “Reading for and Writing Comprehensives” (HIST 8990) in each field, each of which is devoted to intensive individual study of the historiography of the field as a whole, compiling a bibliography of the important literature, gaining familiarity with the key debates, and writing the comprehensive examinations. The student may take up to 6 credits of HIST 8990 in the major field. No more than these 12 credits of "Reading for and Writing Comprehensives" may count toward the degree. Dissertation Fields United States before 1877 United States after 1877 Ancient World; normally a dissertation in Ancient History must be in the area of Egyptology. Modern Europe African American History Women and Gender History Global History Minor fields (in addition to the above) Medieval-Renaissance Europe Early Modern Europe Latin America Africa China and Japan Russia Near East The primary focus of at least one minor field must be on a geographical region different from that of the major field. With that restriction, a student may petition the Graduate Studies Committee for a field or fields not listed in the official list if the prospective field advisor agrees and the student’s advisory committee approves. Furthermore, the student’s major field may be subdivided into two separate fields if it embraces separate regions or is conventionally divided into separate fields (such as Ancient or Medieval-Renaissance). With the approval of the Graduate Studies Committee, one field may be taken in another department or may be interdisciplinary, including courses from at least two departments. Upon approval of a petition to the Graduate Studies Committee from both the student and a prospective dissertation director, a dissertation may be completed in a field that is not normally a dissertation field. E. Concentration in Ancient Egyptian History ( Note: “Concentration” refers to a specific program in this area. It does not imply that this is our only area of specialization.) We expect students choosing this concentration to deepen their proficiency in Middle Egyptian and they must have a reading knowledge of French and German before they may take research seminars or write the dissertation. Admission into the graduate program in history does not automatically ensure admission into this concentration. The approval of the department's Egyptologists is also necessary, so students should contact them directly. F. Course Requirements A minimum of 60 semester hours of graduate course work beyond the bachelor’s degree plus 12 hours of HIST 9000 (Doctoral Dissertation), for a minimum total of 72 graduate credits. No more than 12 hours of dissertation credits will be counted toward the degree. The last 30 hours of course work (including 12 dissertation hours) must be from The University of Memphis. At least 6 credit hours of research seminars (HIST 7/8070) or their equivalent. A master’s thesis in history will count as one of these seminars and, by petition to the Graduate Studies Committee, an article in a peer-reviewed journal may count as one, but neither reduces the total number of credit hours required. Core requirements: One 7/8000-level course in the historiography of the major field and HIST 7/8011 (Philosophy and Theory of History). We recommend, but do not require, HIST 7/8100 (Global Historiography) and historiography courses in the minor fields; however, the advisory committee may require them. Whenever possible, students should take all the core courses in the first year. At most 6 credit hours of History 8012 (Directed Readings), with an additional 6 hours permitted in special circumstances by petition to the Graduate Coordinator. At most 6 credits of MA courses and 6 credits of PhD courses at the 6000-level. In special cases, the advisory committee may allow a total of 15 credits at the 6000-level. With the approval of the advisory committee, up to 33 hours of course work from the master’s degree, as well as any other graduate coursework completed before admission to the PhD program, may be counted toward the 60 credits. A student who makes a grade of B- or lower in 6 or more hours of course work will be dropped from the PhD program, except under exceptional circumstances. No grade of C+ or lower may count toward the required number of credits. The following courses do not count toward the degree: HIST 8990 and HIST 8991 (except as described above in D.1.b). G. Comprehensive Examination The Advisory Committee will review the progress of each full-time Ph.D. student at the end of both the first and second year, and will give their findings to each student in writing. Full-time PhD students with a history MA are expected to pass their Comprehensive Examination before the first semester of their fourth academic year, and in any case within six months of finishing the required coursework. Since the examination is designed to test knowledge of each field, it is not confined to material covered in classes and the books and articles read in them. We expect students to demonstrate an intellectual command of the subject matter, historiography, current scholarly controversies, bibliography, and whatever else is expected in each field. While reading lists for exams will vary in length and content, in most cases they will include at least 30–50 monographs in minor fields and 60–100 in the major field, or the equivalent in major articles. Preparation for the Comprehensive Examination should begin with the first PhD class, and, for MA students anticipating continuing in the PhD program, with the first graduate class. See the departmental Guide for Graduate Students for a complete description of the exam. Before scheduling the Reading for and Writing Comprehensives courses, the student must choose, in consultation with the advisory committee and with the approval of the Graduate Studies Committee, a Comprehensive Committee composed of at least one faculty member from each minor field and two faculty members from the dissertation field. Usually, this is the same as the advisory committee. No sooner than the last semester of course work, in which the student will normally take only Reading for and Writing Comprehensives classes, and after satisfying the language requirement, if any, the Comprehensive Committee will administer a Comprehensive Examination over all fields. The committee, in consultation with the student, will decide whether the exam essays should be written simultaneously or not and may decide to spread them over not more than two semesters. The written portion of the exam consists of essays of about thirty pages length in each minor field and two such essays (or one longer one) in the major field. Students and field advisors will work out the format of these essays, based upon the nature of the field, the content of their coursework, and the reading lists and bibliographies developed for the Readings courses. The essays will be based on a series of broad questions and, in many fields, be historiographical in nature. They will draw from, but not be a mere compilation of, the written documents, described in the departmental Guide to be done in each previous course. After a student has completed all written parts of the Comprehensive Examination, the Comprehensive Committee will conduct an oral examination over all the fields, normally within two weeks, but if necessary the Comprehensive Committee may extend the time. After the oral exam, the committee will either pass the student or require the resubmitting of one or more written parts. After the student has resubmitted any required exams, the committee may choose to hold another oral examination, but it is not required to do so. The student may not resubmit any written examination, which will necessarily involve a major reconceptualization and revision of an essay, sooner than one full semester after the first attempt. After the student has retaken all required parts, including a second oral examination, if required, the Comprehensive Committee will decide whether, with the approval of at least three of the four members, the student should be promoted to late doctoral status or dropped from the program. Upon successful completion of the Comprehensive Examination, the coordinator of graduate studies will notify the Graduate School of the student’s late doctoral status. The student may enroll in dissertation hours only after passing the Comprehensive Examination. H. Dissertation To complete the requirements for the PhD in History, the student must prepare a dissertation based on a substantial amount of original research and submitted in the acceptable form. The student determines the dissertation topic in consultation with a faculty member in the dissertation field who agrees to direct the research. NOTE: Students electing to write a dissertation should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. Each PhD student must, within one semester after passing the Comprehensive Examination, present a prospectus of the proposed dissertation in a colloquy supervised by the Dissertation Committee. All history faculty and graduate students are invited to this colloquy, and all other interested persons are welcome. This is not intended as an examination, but rather as a forum in which the candidate can discuss ideas and receive suggestions and criticisms. The Dissertation Committee consists of at least four graduate faculty, chaired by the director, who, with at least two other members, must have full graduate faculty status. It is recommended that one member be outside the discipline, department, or university. Prospective committee members not on the University of Memphis faculty must apply for Adjunct Graduate Faculty status. All graduate committees, including this one, should normally consist of tenured and tenure-track faculty. Other instructors at University of Memphis, untenured or non-tenure track instructors from other institutions, and unaffiliated scholars, with appropriate graduate faculty status may serve, but only with the approval of the committee chair and by a formal petition to the Graduate Studies Committee providing a full explanation of the reasons for the request. The Coordinator of Graduate Studies may waive the departmental requirement that three of the required four members hold Full Graduate Faculty membership when an Adjunct/Affiliate member's credentials warrant it. In these instances, only two of the departmental faculty members will be required to hold full Graduate Faculty membership. Only one adjunct or affiliate graduate faculty member may serve as a voting member; the director must hold full membership. Formal approval of the final dissertation will be given by the Dissertation Committee and the Graduate Studies Committee. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .