#http://www.memphis.edu/studentgiving/faqs.php
Common Cents FAQs - Student Giving - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Student Giving Donate Now Senior Class Gift Common Cents Philanthropy Council Home Student Giving Common Cents FAQs Frequently Asked Questions What is the Senior Class Gift Campaign, and why should I give? The Senior Class Gift Campaign is a united effort each year developed to encourage and enable all seniors to support the University with a financial gift. In addition to knowing you did something to make an impact at your alma mater, all senior donors will be recognized in the official Commencement Program as a True Blue Student Donor. Graduates can stop by the Senior Class Gift table during Cap and Gown Distribution to get involved. Your participation makes a difference! Your $25 gift might be all we need to complete a major initiative. Seeing our students and alumni support the University will help encourage others to contribute also. Additionally, our alumni participation figure weighs into the U.S. News and World Report's annual ranking of national universities. What is the Office of Development? The Office of Development raises funds for the University. We develop relationships alumni, parents, students, faculty/staff, and friends of the University, as well as corporations and foundations. As those individuals and groups become more engaged, we present the University's needs and answer questions as they choose how they want support the University. Why does UofM need private money if it is a public University? Only some of the University's funding comes from tuition, fees, and state funding. The remaining must be donated from loyal alumni, friends, companies, foundations, parents, and even students. What is the difference between Common Cents and the FAM? Common Cents, the student giving program at the University of Memphis, enables you to contribute to the University as a student. We want to help everyone understand the important role our donors have in sustaining the University, and want you (our future alumni!) to learn the importance of giving back. Your gift is tax-deductible as allowed by law. The FAM provides programming and services for current University of Memphis students that will aid in developing stronger connections with the institution as well as with its alumni. The FAM is a membership-based organization and carries an annual fee of $20 for students. The dues are not tax-deductible. I already pay tuition, why should I give the UofM more money? Tuition and fees provide on a portion of the University's annual revenue. As with state funding, the University relies on donations to help fill the gaps where financial support is needed but can't be provided by state funding and tuition and fees. What will my gift of $5, $10, $20.15, or even $100 really do? All gifts make a difference. Even gifts that may seem small to you will combine with similar gifts from tens of thousands of other students, alumni, parents, and friends of the University to create a large impact. Many donors may have thought their gifts were small, but when combined with other gifts, they were able to provide a lot of support for the University of Memphis. What is the Student Campaign, and why should I give? Led by the Common Cents Philanthropy Council, our Student Campaign spreads the awareness of the importance of your financial contributions to the University. We ask students support the University with a gift that is comfortable for them: $5, $10, $20, $25, $50, $100. We hope that every student leaves the university knowing their gifts, of any size, truly make an impact. Someday, we hope to reach 100% student body participation every year. What an impact we could make if every student contributed to the University each year! You can contribute to your school or college, or whatever fund interests you. More questions? E-mail us ! Give Now Click here to make your annual gift today! Senior Class Gift Win an iPad and be recognized in the commencement program! Faculty and Staff It’s not too late to participate in this year’s campaign! Phonathon Student Callers We’re recruiting great students who enjoy talking to our alumni! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .