#http://www.memphis.edu/iei/about/faculty.php
Faculty and Staff - IEI - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Intensive English for Internationals About Volunteer Observe SPEAK Test Teach Contact Us About IEI Curriculum Schedule Session Dates Fees Housing Faculty and Staff Student Handbook Home IEI About Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Alzbeta Bowden, Instructor Andy Muller, Instructor Anissa Dalle, Instructor Ann Durden, Instructor Ann has a B.A. in English and Spanish from Ursinus College in Pennsylvania and two M.A. degrees, one in Communication from Michigan State University and another in English (Linguistics)/Teaching ESL from George Mason University in Virginia. She has over 25 years of teaching experience. She has taught English at both the high school and college levels for many years in the United States and Germany, including 5 years of ESL in Virginia before moving to Memphis with her family in 1998. While rearing her two young sons, she taught preschool music classes for 14 years. She returned to teaching ESL in 2014 when she began teaching for IEI. She is also an online rater for the TOEFL and TOEIC tests for ETS. Ann loves teaching international students because she finds them highly motivated and enjoys learning about different cultures. Caleb Sanborn, Instructor Chelsea Mills, Instructor Clare Griggs , Instructor Clare received her B.A. from Rhodes College with majors in Biology and Spanish. She received her M.A.T. at The University of Memphis and recently added on the endorsement for teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages. She has taught for over 25 years in a variety of settings and has been an ESL instructor in the IEI program since 2005. She also tutors for the Collierville Literacy Council. She enjoys reading, gardening, hiking, and traveling. She loves working with IEI students and is interested in learning about different countries and cultures. Daniel Harper , Lecturer Daniel has a B.A. in English from Rhodes College where he specialized in Creative Writing. His master's degree is from The University of Memphis in English Literature and ESL. Daniel taught at IEI from 1998 to 2000 and then taught middle school for 3 years in Lima, Peru before returning to IEI. He is happy to be working in IEI again where he has the opportunity to teach students from a variety of countries and cultures. Judy Bogan, Instructor Lisa Goins , Director Lisa is a native of Memphis and earned a BA degree in Elementary Education from Crichton College. She also studied at The University of Southern Mississippi, where she earned an MATL degree with an emphasis in ESL. Her travels have taken her many places around the world, but her longest time was spent to Tianjin, China, where she studied Mandarin Chinese at Tianjin University. Lisa began teaching in the IEI program in 1998, and she became the director of the program in 2004. Lisa enjoys gardening and taking walks with her Scottish Terrier, Boo. Marilyn Trimble , Instructor Marilyn completed her Bachelor and Master Degrees in education from the University of Memphis. In 1993, she moved to Kuwait with her husband and 4 of her 5 children. She taught ESl at the university level for 8 years and did private tutoring for children and adults. She studied Arabic in many settings, which gave her a real empathy for learning a new language as an adult. On returning to the US in 2006 she began teaching at IEI. Marilyn has visited much of the Middle East and Europe and misses those cultural adventures, so IEI is the perfect place for her. Nina Clark , Lecturer Nina completed her M.A. in English with an ESL concentration in the summer of 2003 from The University of Memphis. This is a mid-life career change for her. She enjoyed a 21-year career as an R.N. before moving to Memphis with her husband in 1995. Two of those years were spent working in a mission hospital in Asuncion, Paraguay prior to marriage. She has been involved as a volunteer in church-based Conversational ESL programs since 1987, teaching, directing, and leading training workshops for other volunteers throughout the southeast. John Barrymore said, "You are not old until regrets take the place of dreams." She is living out her dream teaching ESL professionally. She and her husband have three "children" of the four-legged variety, Fancy, Andy and Excell. Robert Jordan, Instructor Sheila Battle, Instructor Stacey Trimble, Lecturer Cheri Chadwick , Admissions Cheri Chadwick graduated from UT Martin with a degree in Business Administration - International Economics. Cheri loves to travel. She has traveled to Brazil, Mexico, Uruguay, Amsterdam, Macedonia, Albania, and Kosovo. For two years, she volunteered in a church based ESL program. She began working at IEI in May 2007. Cheri says, "I enjoy working at The University of Memphis with our faculty and our international students! Come study with us!" About IEI Curriculum Schedule Session Dates Fees Housing Faculty and Staff Student Handbook Apply Daytime Intensive Program Apply Community Courses Apply Online Courses Going on to the University Conditional Admission Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .