#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/membership/
Join the Alumni Association - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About Membership Join Now Services &amp; Benefits List of Benefits Email365 Insurance Travel New Grads Students Pouncer's Pals Home UMAA Membership Join the University of Memphis Alumni Association! All UofM graduates, former or current students, friends, and loyal Tiger fans are welcome to join our Tiger Family that is over 12,000 members strong! Show that you're True Blue and JOIN TODAY ! Joining is easy! Choose a membership option below to join online today: Join as a new annual member Renew your annual membership Three Year Membership Upgrade to Life Member Current Students - Join the FAM Kids - Join Pouncer's Pals Join the University of Memphis Association of Retirees (UMAR) Join the Alumni Association and Tiger Scholarship Fund Give the gift of membership Print a Membership Application Membership has its privileges! The University of Memphis Alumni Association offers several benefits and discounts that are available only to our members, both in the Memphis-area and nationally. Discounts are available at Tiger Bookstore, the University Bookstore, Campus Rec Center and more places! In addition, members will be able to take advantage of the "Email365" program and retain their @memphis.edu email account. Click here to view all of the Alumni Association membership benefits. Join as a new annual member Annual Membership Levels Single Annual Membership: $35 Joint Annual Membership: $50 Recent Graduate Annual Membership (up to 5 years after graduation): $20 Single Golden Annual Membership (65 years of age and older): $20 Joint Golden Annual Membership (65 years of age and older): $35 Faculty/Staff Annual Membership: $20 Learn about our new Three Year Membership: $105 First time annual members receive a complimentary membership package as shown here. The box includes your membership card, a car decal, a lapel pin, and a key chain. Click here to learn about additional membership benefits and click here to learn about how you can get involved as an active member of the Alumni Association. JOIN NOW! Renew your annual membership Annual Membership Levels Single Annual Membership: $35 Joint Annual Membership: $50 Recent Graduate Annual Membership (up to 5 years after graduation): $20 Single Golden Annual Membership (65 years of age and older): $20 Joint Golden Annual Membership (65 years of age and older): $35 Faculty/Staff Annual Membership: $20 Thank you for your continued support of the Alumni Association! Thanks to you we were able to reach our goal of 12,000 members in 2012 in honor of our University's Centennial Anniversary. There is strength in numbers, and the more members we have, the greater support we can provide OUR University of Memphis. Renew your Alumni Association membership today to help make your degree STRONGER, our University BETTER, and bring our Tiger family CLOSER. JOIN NOW! Three Year Membership Single Three Year Membership: $105 Receive all of the benefits of an annual membership without having to renew every year! First time members will receive a complimentary membership package including your membership card, a car decal, a lapel pin, and a key chain. JOIN NOW! FAM (Future Alumni of Memphis) Future Alumni of Memphis Annual Membership: $20 First time FAM members receive a complimentary t-shirt*, a membership card and a Tiger Blue stole** to wear at Commencement. Don't forget to check out your other membership benefits including discounts on textbooks, Tiger apparel, and more! Visit memphis.edu/thefam to learn more! *After joining online you must stop by the Alumni Center, located at 635 Normal Street, to pick up your t-shirt. Your membership card will be mailed to you in 5-7 days, but if you need it before then, you can get one at the Alumni Center. **FAM stoles are distributed at Cap &amp; Gown pickup before your commencement. JOIN NOW! Upgrade to Life Member Life Membership Levels Single Life Membership: $750* Joint Life Membership: $1,000* Single Golden Life Membership (65 years of age and older): $200 Joint Golden Life Membership (65 years of age and older): $350 *Single Life Membership: Or pay $100 in monthly installments over 8 months (This includes an additional premium of $50) *Joint Life Membership: Or pay $100 in monthly installments over 11 months (This includes an additional premium of $100) Join over 1,400 Tigers For Life whose life membership clearly defines them as True Blue. Life members receive the complimentary membership package shown here. The box includes a membership card, a pen, a newly redesigned Life Member lapel pin and a car decal. Click here to learn about additional membership benefits. Click here to learn about how you can get involved as an active member of the Alumni Association. JOIN NOW! Pouncer's Pals Single Annual Membership: $30 Pouncer's Pals is open to all children under the age of 12. Members will receive a t-shirt, a certificate, an autographed photo of Pouncer, quarterly mailings and access to Pouncer's Pals events. Click here to learn more about Pouncer's Pals and upcoming events. ** Download an application and return by mail or fax. JOIN NOW! University of Memphis Association of Retirees Single Annual Membership: $25 Joint Annual Membership: $35 Single Life Membership: $200 Joint Life Membership: $350 UMAR is an active organization of retired professors, administrators and staff. The group conducts a variety of activities including luncheons, dinners, tours and trips, as well as helping to coordinate various volunteer activities within the University. UMAR is a constituent organization of the Alumni Association, and its members are entitled to the same benefits as all Alumni Association members. Click here to learn more about UMAR and upcoming events. JOIN NOW! Alumni Association and the Tiger Scholarship Fund True Blue Tiger Membership (includes single annual membership in Alumni Association and Tiger Scholarship Fund): $135 Click here to learn more about the Tiger Scholarship Fund. JOIN NOW! Give the Gift of Membership! Need to find the perfect gift for graduation, birthday, new job, retirement or any other special occasion? Give the gift of membership! GIVE THE GIFT! Membership Join Now Services &amp; Benefits List of Benefits Email365 Insurance Travel New Grads Students Pouncer's Pals Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .