#http://www.memphis.edu/crep/publications.php
Publications - CREP - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Center for Research in Educational Policy (CREP) About Research Staff Advisory Board Contact Us Home CREP Publications CREP Publications Listed below are selected recent publications organized by topic. Click on the link to access a PDF copy of the publication. You are also encouraged to call us toll free at 1-866-670-6147 or email us if you have questions or comments. Educational Technology The Influence of Technology on Instructional Practices Does Technology Integration "Work" When Key Barriers Are Removed? Florida's Enhancing Education Through Technology Michigan Freedom to Learn Laptop Program Tennessee EdTech Launch Walled Lake Anytime Anywhere Laptop Program West Orange Students and Teacher Accessing Real-time Knowledge Program Literacy Implementation of Effective Intervention: An Empirical Study to Evaluate the Efficacy of Fountas &amp; Pinnell's Leveled Literacy Intervention System (LLI) A Randomized Experimental Evaluation of the Impact of Accelerated Reader/Reading Renaissance Implementation on reading Achievement in Grades 3 to 6 Evaluation of the Leveled Literacy Intervention: Year 1 Evaluating Reading First in TN: Year 2 An evaluation of the Reading Recovery Intervention in an At-Risk Urban Setting School Choice Achievement and Climate Outcomes for the Knowledge is Power Program (KIPP) in an Urban Middle School Urban School Reform: Year 4 Outcomes for the Knowledge is Power Program in an Urban Middle School TN Charter School Evaluation Report Year 4 (06-07) TN Charter School 06-07 Elementary Student Achievement Report TN Charter School 06-07 Secondary Student Achievement Report Charter Schools as a Vehicle for Education Reform School Reform CSR in Middle Schools: The effects of Different Ways of Knowing on Student Achievement in a Large Urban District Creating Critical Mass for Restructuring: What we can Learn from Memphis Two-and Three-year Achievement Results from the Memphis Restructuring Initiative The Effects of the School Renaissance Program on Student Achievement in Reading and Mathematics Impacts of the Co-NECT School Reform Design on Classroom Instruction, School Climate, and Student Achievement in Inner-City Schools Using School Reform Models to Improve Reading Achievement: A Longitudinal Study of Direct Instruction and Success for All in an Urban District STEM NSRC LASER i3 Validation Study: A Systemic and Sustainable Approach for Achieving High Standards in Science Education Supplemental Educational Services Implementation and Outcomes of Supplemental Educational Services: The TN State-wide Study Supplemental Educational Services as a Consequence of the NCLB Legislation: Evaluating its Impact on Student Achievement in a Large Urban District Evaluating Supplemental Educational Service Providers: Suggested Strategies for States Publications Services Client Resources Sponsors &amp; Partnerships Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .