#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/acad_reg/transfer_credit.php
Credit Transferred from Other Institutions - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Academic Regulations Credit Transferred from Other Institutions Credit Transferred from Other Institutions 1. Transfer Credit for Previous Instruction Credit from post-secondary institutions will be granted and applied toward degree requirements only when it is for courses that are substantially equivalent to those offered at the University of Memphis. Credit not equivalent to courses at the University of Memphis may be posted to the student's record and may be used as elective credit or as determined by the dean of the college from which the student is to graduate. After the student has been approved for admission as a regular undergraduate, the Office of Admissions will evaluate credit for University-wide use. The office of the dean in each college has the authority for determining the use of acceptable credit toward specific degree programs in that college. The University of Memphis accepts transfer credit for college-level courses taken at accredited institutions of higher education. Student petitions for transfer credit for courses completed at institutions that are not regionally accredited are considered on a case-by-case basis. The student must present a petition in writing to the Office of Admissions at the University of Memphis with a list of courses for which credit is desired. The student must provide transcripts from the institutions, documentation from each course that includes the course content, course level, contact minutes, the standards for assessing student work, and documentation of the academic credentials of the course instructor. Based on an examination of these materials and after consultation with the appropriate academic department or college, the Office of Admissions will review the student's petition and provide confirmation of those courses that have been approved for transfer credit. 2. Earning Transfer Credit after Enrollment at the University of Memphis University of Memphis students considering taking courses at other institutions should consult the transfer articulation tables to see how the course will transfer to the University of Memphis. All enrolled students must have Section I of the T ransfer Credit Request completed by the student. For institutions and courses that are not listed on those tables, students must complete Sections I-II of this form before enrolling in the course to find out whether the course will transfer to the University of Memphis and how it will count toward their degree programs. An approved Transfer Credit Request serves as assurance that the course will transfer and how it will count toward the desired requirement. Students do not have any guarantee that courses not listed on the articulation tables will transfer or how they will count toward the students' degrees without an approved Transfer Credit Request form. Before credit earned at another institution can be transferred and recorded on a permanent academic record, the student must have an official transcript from the institution mailed to the Admissions Office. The maximum credit hour load allowed for any term includes all course enrollments both at the University of Memphis and any concurrent enrollment at other institutions. (See "Credit Hours and Maximum Load") 3. Transfer Credit for Distance Education Credit from other institutions for distance education courses taught by independent study, on-line computer instruction, or other methods, is evaluated in the same manner as transfer credit for classroom-based instruction. As with other transfer credit, students enrolled as regular undergraduates must seek prior approval from the dean of the college from which they are to graduate before taking courses to meet degree requirements at the University of Memphis. Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .