#http://www.memphis.edu/rsp/sponsored_programs/prepare_proposal.php
Grant Services - RSP - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Division of Research and Sponsored Programs Vice President Compliance Sponsored Programs Research Development Sponsored Programs Contract Services Grant Services Find Funding Intent to Submit Prepare Budget Prepare Proposal Submit Proposal Advance Account Award Acceptance Award Set-Up Monitoring Close Out Institutional Information Educational Resources Agency/Sponsor Links Research Resources Grants &amp; Contracts Accounting Home RSP Sponsored Programs Grant Services Prepare Proposal Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) personnel will assist faculty and staff with preparing the required documents for submission. Administrative/Budget/Certification Forms The OSP office is responsible for completing cover sheet/title page, budget forms, and any certifications that may be required by the sponsor. Research Compliance Laboratory Animal Research Questions regarding laboratory animals should be deferred to Dr. Karyl Buddington at kbudding@memphis.edu . Human Subjects Protection Questions regarding human subject research requirements should be deferred to the IRB at irb@memphis.edu . Biosafety Questions regarding biosafety requirements should be deferred to Al Simpson at 678-4672 in the Office of Environmental Health &amp; Safety . Conflict of Interest Questions regarding conflict of interest disclosure requirements should be deferred to Research Compliance . Certifications and Assurances Subaward/Subcontracts Grant applications to Sponsors often include a subaward with other institutions. To facilitate the development of the proposal, please inform the OSP staff, at the time of your intent to submit, when a Subaward is included in your proposal. The OSP staff will contact the subawardee Institution as soon as possible to facilitate the execution of the subaward. Please provide both the PI and research staff contact information for the collaborating Institution(s), if possible. Sponsor-&gt;Prime recipient-&gt;Subrecipient The Sponsor is the originator of the funds. The Prime Recipient is the legal entity who receives the award directly from the sponsor, the holder of the prime award. Organizations can be recipients; individuals cannot. The Prime Recipient is responsible for monitoring the technical, programmatic, financial performance, and audit requirements of a subrecipient. The Subrecipient is required to provide resources and personnel necessary to conduct its portion of the work as an independent contractor. Categorization of Subawards A Subrecipient: Has a responsibility to carry out a portion of the grant program as defined in the Subcontract, Has its performance measured against the grant program objectives, Has responsibility for programmatic decision making, Has responsibility for adherence to applicable federal program compliance requirements. A Vendor: Provides goods and services within normal business operations Provides similar goods and services to many different purchasers Operates in a competitive environment Provides goods and services that are ancillary to the operation of the grant or contract Is not subject to compliance requirements of a federal grant or contract Vendor purchases are not to be charged to Subcontractor or federal Pass-through object codes. A Consultant Individuals generally render services on a "work for hire" basis (assign all tangible and intangible property rights to University of Memphis) A contract for consultant services does not generally require the inclusion (flow down) of the terms and conditions contained in the University of Memphis prime award. Consultants are retained in accordance with the University Independent Contractor Policy. Under this standard, the University of Memphis would not direct or retain control over a consultant. An employer-employee relationship exists when the business has a great deal of control over the work, including providing regular supervision, decision-making and guidance. In this situation, the person should be classified as an employee. Consultants must agree to abide by the University's Intellectual Property policies by signing a Participation Agreement. The following information is needed for each Subawardee/Subcontractor: Letter of Commitment/Intent: Must be signed by institutional official Statement of Work Budget (on required forms if NSF or NIH Submission) Budget Justification Biosketches (if required by Sponsor) Current and Pending Support (if required by Sponsor) Other documents as required by Sponsor Back to Top Sponsored Programs Contract Services Grant Services Find Funding Intent to Submit Prepare Budget Prepare Proposal Submit Proposal Advance Account Award Acceptance Award Set-Up Monitoring Close Out Institutional Information Educational Resources Agency/Sponsor Links Research Resources Grants &amp; Contracts Accounting Forms Forms and other useful information Staff Staff of Research and Sponsored Programs and Grants Accounting Resources Institutional information and resources for the researcher Research Portal Research Portal Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .