#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/getinvolved/constituent/youngalumni.php
Young Alumni - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About Get Involved Academic Chapters Arts &amp; Sciences School of Law CEHHS Communication Sciences &amp; Disorders FCBE Engineering International MBA Journalism Kemmons Wilson School School of Nursing Masters of Public Administration Music Professional MBA University College Constituent Groups Band Frosh Camp Half Century Hispanic Alumni Lambuth Luther C. McClellan Memphis Pom UMAR Young Alumni Out of Town Atlanta Chicago Dallas Denver Houston Indianapolis Minneapolis Nashville New England New Orleans New York Orlando/Tampa San Francisco St. Louis Washington, DC Student Groups Future Alumni of Memphis Student Ambassador Board Scholarships Pouncer's Pals Home UMAA Get Involved Young Alumni Young Alumni What is Young Alumni? The University of Memphis Alumni Association is a non-profit organization existing to build FRIENDS of the University and advance, connect and engage the UofM family. Involvement in the Alumni Association is the perfect way to give back to the University. The better the UofM and the Alumni Association are, the more YOUR degree is worth. Through YOUNG ALUMNI you can: Meet and interact with your fellow Young Alumni at various events. Attend watch parties for select Tiger basketball and football games. Networking opportunities with recent graduates who are already established in their professional careers. Help fund the Young Alumni Legacy Scholarship . Stay connected with and give back to the University that did so much for you as well as the students who will follow in your footsteps. Young Alumni Legacy Scholarship The deadline for the 2015 Young Alumni Legacy Scholarship has passed. This $500 scholarship is funded by Young Alumni to help deserving UofM graduates or professional-degree seeking students, who received an undergraduate degree at the UofM, in their studies. It is the long-term goal of Young Alumni to see this scholarship endowed so that it can be permanently in place to help future graduate students of the UofM. We would like to encourage you to make a contribution, large or small, to the Young Alumni Legacy Scholarship so that we can reach our goal of endowment as soon as possible. To make a contribution online, please visit , click the "other" button and enter "Young Alumni Legacy Scholarship" when prompted. Join the Tiger Scholarship Fund! Recent graduates within the last five years have the opportunity to join the Tiger Scholarship Fund for 50% of the minimum gift while receiving full benefits for that level. Young Alumni can join at 50% of any level up to Bengal Tiger ($1000). As a Young Alumni donor, you enjoy the best of all Tiger Athletics – the best seats and the best parking. Members also have access to exclusive membership luncheons, game day events, and more! To join the Tiger Scholarship Fund today as a Young Alumni, call 901-678-2334. With your support, we’ll continue to say, “There’s never been a better time to be a Tiger!” Recent Events Young Alumni True Blue 5k 2015 The Young Alumni of the Alumni Association hosted the 9th Annual True Blue 5k! View Photos Get Involved! Watch this video by President Cal Overman (BPS '11), recorded at Vision Forum 2014, to learn more about the Young Alumni Committee and how you can get involved! Want to join the Board? The application process for 2014-2015 has passed. Applications will be reviewed by current board members. Selected applicants will be contacted to schedule an interview. For more information on how you can get involved or upcoming events, contact Alumni Coordinator Marina Carrier at m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901-678-2461. Chapter Leadership Chair: Cal Overman,(BPS '11) caldoverman@gmail.com Vice Chair: Mary Clayton Wilson,(BS '08) mcwilson@stmaryschool.org Race Chair: Jacob Norman (BBA '10), jnorman@shoemakerfinancial.com Special Events Co-Chair: Dane Williams (BA '09), dwilliams@shoemakerfinancial.com Special Events Co-Chair: Rob Lackey (BBA '10), robertdlackey@gmail.com Marketing Chair: Tyler Ricossa (BBA '11), tricossa@memphis.edu Membership Co-Chair: Addison Piggot (BA '14), tpiggott@memphis.edu Membership Co-Chair: Inglish Maffitt (BS '13), iamaffitt@gmail.com Race Committee: Ashley Holloway (BBA '09, MPS '13), anhollwy@memphis.edu Rachel Jacques (BBA '09, MBA '11), rachel.renner86@gmail.com Georgette Kearney(BA '10, BSEd '10), gkearney@memphis.edu Rachel McKinley (BBA '09), rmckinley@wucpas.com Get Involved Academic Chapters Arts &amp; Sciences School of Law CEHHS Communication Sciences &amp; Disorders FCBE Engineering International MBA Journalism Kemmons Wilson School School of Nursing Masters of Public Administration Music Professional MBA University College Constituent Groups Band Frosh Camp Half Century Hispanic Alumni Lambuth Luther C. McClellan Memphis Pom UMAR Young Alumni Out of Town Atlanta Chicago Dallas Denver Houston Indianapolis Minneapolis Nashville New England New Orleans New York Orlando/Tampa San Francisco St. Louis Washington, DC Student Groups Future Alumni of Memphis Student Ambassador Board Scholarships Pouncer's Pals Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .