#http://www.memphis.edu/sociology/graduate/program_requirements.php
Program Requirements - Sociology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Sociology About Us People Research Undergraduate Graduate Resources Graduate Resources About the Program Contact the Advisor How to Apply MA Degree Requirements Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Assistantships Opportunities for Support Course Descriptions Graduate Catalog Forms and Links Graduate Student Profiles Student Placements Student Publications Forthcoming 2014 2013 2012 Prior 2012 Student Presentations Student Awards Home Sociology Graduate Program Requirements Program Requirements Students may choose a thesis program or a non-thesis program. The requirements for each are listed below. All students must take three core courses: 1) SOCI 6312 (Intermediate Social Statistics), 2) SOCI 7210 (Theory Seminar), and 3) SOCI 7320 (Methods of Social Research). Students must earn a minimum grade of "3.0" in each core course. The Thesis Program 30 semester hours of graduate level work, which includes 24-27 hours of course work and a minimum of 3 hours and a maximum of 6 hours of Sociology 7996 (Thesis). At least 24 semester hours of course work must be in sociology. Only 6 hours of course work can be at the 6000 level. No more than 6 semester hours of Directed Individual Study (SOCI 7912) can be applied to degree requirements. The student must pass an oral thesis defense that counts as a comprehensive exam. The Non-Thesis Program 33 semester hours of graduate course work, only 6 hours of which can be at the 6000 level. At least 27 semester hours of graduate course work must be in sociology. No more than 6 semester hours of Directed Individual Study (SOCI 7912) can be applied to degree requirements. The student must pass both oral and written exams in the areas of 1) sociological theory, 2) sociological research methods and statistics, and 3) a substantive area (e.g., sociology of gender, sociology of religion, deviant behavior, stratification, medical sociology, globalization) chosen by the student in conjunction with the graduate coordinator. For additional information about program requirements and course descriptions. Graduate Resources About the Program Contact the Advisor How to Apply MA Degree Requirements Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Assistantships Opportunities for Support Course Descriptions Graduate Catalog Forms and Links Graduate Student Profiles Student Placements Student Publications Forthcoming 2014 2013 2012 Prior 2012 Student Presentations Student Awards Community Out of Chaos "portray the idea of chaos to community in Memphis." Online B.A. Want to pursue your college degree and manage your busy lifestyle? Experience online classes at the UofM. Contact Us Main Office Contacts and Location Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .