#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/fir/2015FFIR3410002.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus FIR 3410 Financial Management Fall 2015 3 Credit Hours Instructor: Mr. Leslie Mathis, MS, MBA, MIM, CFA Phone : 678 - 4642 E - mail: lmathis@memphis.edu O ffice: FAB 446 Office Hours: MW 11:00 am - 12:30 pm & TR 10:00 am - 11:15 am Class Times & Locati on: TR 8:00 - 9:25 am in FCB 127 Course Overview Fundamentals of financial management: time value of money, financial risk and return, valuation of stocks and bonds, cost of capital, and capital budgeting. Prerequisites: ACCT 2010, ECON 2020, and either SCMS 2710 or MATH 1530. Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : Fundamentals of Financial Management , Concise 8 th edition by Brigham & Houston St udents should also obtain a financial calculator. My preferred model is the HP 10bII. Recommended Materials: Aplia homework manager. Although not required and not a part of the overall grade, Aplia is a useful resource for the practice of problems and concepts outside of class. Course Objectives : -- Students should review the basic financial statements and understand how to use the balance sheet, income statement, and statement of cash flows to manag -- Students should master the basics of ratio analysis and learn how trend analysis a nd benchmarking serve to measure -- Students should master the concepts of time value of money. They should be able to determine the present value and future value of both lump sums and annuities. -- Students should understand how the interest r ate associated with a security is impacted by inflation, time to maturity, bond rating, and liquidity. -- Students should understand the basic characteristics of a corporate bond and know how to determine the valuation and yield to maturity of a corporate bond. -- Students should be able to describe the relationship between risk and return. They should also know how to calculate the required ret urn of a stock using the CAPM. -- Students should be able to provide the rights and privileges of a stockholder and know how to calculate the expected price of a stock. -- Students should understand how to use the basic techniques of capital budgeting. They should know how to determine which projects are profitable and which are not. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your BBA Degree h s/BBADegreeLearningOutcomes.pdf Grading and Evaluation Criteria There will be 4 exams in the course. Each exam will include both multiple choice questions and numerical problems. Each exam will be equally weighted. Thus, each exam will be 25% of the overall grade. Final Course Grades I plan to use plus or minus grades for the overall grade. The final grading scale will be as follows: 90 and above = A 80 - 89 = B 70 - 79 = C 60 - 69 = D Below 60 = F Final Exam Schedule The f inal exam will be held on Tue s day , December 8 from 8:00 to 10:00 a m in the regular classroom. The final exam for this class will be scheduled according to the academic calendar website . Course Policies Attendance: Students are highly encouraged to attend all classes. Poor attendance is usually correlated with low grades. I do not plan to take attendance on a daily basis. Students are responsible for material covered in class even if they were unable to attend. Make sure to get note s from another student if you are absent. Academic Integrity: During tests, students should not use answers generated by other students. Furthermore, they need to keep their test papers flat on their desks, and answers should be covered. If I believe th at an exam has been compromised, I reserve the right to have the suspected student or students to retake the exam. Violations may result in academic penalties, Students will not be allowed to use a cell phone in c lass during exams. Please turn off all cell phones and place them out of sight. Students should follow all university and FCBE policies on academic integrity. For further information, refer to http:/ / . Participation: I encourage students to work problems along with other students during class sessions. If you do not understand the problem or methodology used, feel free to raise your hand and ask questions. Try to avoid talking during the lecture so that all students can hear what is being said. Reporting Illness or Absence: You may report any necessary absences by e - mailing me at lmathis@memphis.edu . Plus or Minus Grades I do not plan to use plus or minus grades for the overall grades in this course. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance Course Outline Tu Aug 25 Orientation Th Aug 27 Chapter 1 Overview of Financial Management Tu Sept 1 Chapter 2 Financial Markets & Institutions Th Sept 3 Chapter 2 Financial Markets & Institutions Tu Sept 8 Chapter 3 Financial Statements, Cash Flows, & Taxes Th Sept 10 Chapter 3 Financial Statements, Cash Flows, & Taxes Tu Sept 15 Chapter 4 Analysis of Financial Statements Th Sept 17 C hapter 4 Analysis of Financial Statements Tu Sept 22 Test 1 (Chapters 1 - 4) Th Sept 24 TBA Tu Sept 29 Chapter 5 Time Value of Money Th Oct 1 Chapter 5 Time Value of Money Tu Oct 6 Chapter 6 Interest Rates Th Oct 8 Chapter 7 Bonds Tu Oct 13 Fall Break Th Oct 15 Chapter 7 Bonds Tu Oct 20 Review Th Oct 22 Test 2 (Chapters 5 - 7) Tu Oct 27 Chapter 8 Risk & Return Th Oct 29 Chapter 8 Risk & Return Tu Nov 3 Chapter 9 Stocks Th Nov 5 Chapter 9 Stocks Tu Nov 10 Chapter 10 Cost of Capital Th Nov 12 Chapter 10 Cost of Capital/Review Tu No v 17 Test 3 (Chapters 8 - 10) Th Nov 19 Chapter 11 Capital Budgeting Tu Nov 24 Chapter 11 Capital Budgeting Th Nov 26 Thanksgiving Tu Dec 1 Review Tu Dec 8 8am - 10 am Final Exam