#http://umdrive.memphis.edu/bollobas/www/ErdosLectureSeries2012.html
Erdos Conference 2012 Paul Erd&ouml;s Memorial Lecture Series held jointly with The International Conference on Mathematics and Statistics (ICOMAS) as part of the University of Memphis Centennial Celebration University of Memphis, University Center May 17-18, 2012 home &quot; schedule &quot; registration/funding &quot; accommodation &quot; directions &quot; posters The Department of Mathematical Sciences at the University of Memphis is pleased to announce the Fifteenth Lectures in the Paul Erd&ouml;s Lecture Series , a conference held each year in honor of the department's long relationship with Paul Erd&ouml;s. 2012 Erd&ouml;s Lecturers: Avi Wigderson and Vaughan Jones Avi Wigderson is not only an excellent pure mathematician, but also one of the best practitioners of theoretical computer science. Wigderson received the Nevanlinna Prize in 1994 for his work on computational complexity. Wigderson will give a lecture entitled &quot;The power and weakness of randomness (when you are short on time)&quot;. Vaughan Jones , who a distinguished Professor of mathematics at Vanderbilt University and holds an appointment at UC Berkeley, is best known for his work on von Neumann algebras, knot polynomials and conformal field theory, in particular, for the Jones polynomial of knots. He was awarded a Fields Medal in 1990. Jones will give a general talk entitled &quot;Why Flatland is a great place to do algebra&quot; . Historical Portraits Peter Winkler and George Dyson Preceding the 2012 Erd &ouml; s Lectures, Peter Winkler and George Dyson will give two exciting cultural and contextual talks suitable for a general audience interest talks. &quot;Erd&#337;s and the Magic of Randomness&quot; - Peter Winkler Peter Winkler has as done notable research in discrete mathematics is and patent holder in a broad range of applications, ranging from cryptography to marine navigation. Currently a Professor of Mathematics and Computer Science at Dartmouth College he has produced significant work in discrete mathematics, the theory of computation and probability theory. &quot;Turing's Cathedral: von Neumann and the Dawn of Computing&quot; - George Dyson George Dyson, author and historian of technology, has produced significant work on the evolution of technology in relation to the physical environment and its relationship with society.His work has addressed the history of computing, the development of algorithms and intelligence, communication systems, space exploration, and the design of water craft. Dyson will give a captivating lecture for the general audience entitled &quot;Turing's Cathedral&quot; . 2012 Combinatorics Conference Speakers The combinatorics conference consists of a series of talks by other outstanding scholars. This year, we look forward to lectures from the following. Paul Balister (University of Memphis) James Campbell (University of Memphis) Maria Chudnovsky (Columbia University) Henry Cohn (Microsoft Research, New England) Jacob Fox (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) Alan Frieze (Carnegie Mellon University) Vaughan Jones (Vanderbilt University and UC Berkeley) Eyal Lubetzky (Microsoft Research, Redmond, WA) Cecil Rousseau (University of Memphis) Jacques Verstraete (UC San Diego) Avi Wigderson (IAS, Princeton) Peter Winkler (Dartmouth College) These talks will take place May17-18 in the University Center. Click here for directions to the University Center. Poster Session This year&rsquo;s event will include a poster session where researchers may display their recent work. If you are interested or know of someone who might be, please contact the organizer Jeffrey Wheeler at jwheeler@pitt.edu. Organized by B&eacute;la Bollob&aacute;s , this conference is being sponsored by the Institute of Combinatorics and the Department of Mathematical Sciences at the University of Memphis . Additional funding has been provided by the National Science Foundation. University of Memphis &quot; Department of Mathematical Sciences &quot; Memphis, TN 38152 &quot; (901)678-5610 A Tennessee Board of Regents Institution An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action University