#http://www.memphis.edu/sociology/people/faculty_and_staff/joseph-lariscy.php
Joseph Lariscy - Sociology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Sociology About Us People Research Undergraduate Graduate Resources People Faculty Emeritus &amp; Emerita Faculty Advisors &amp; Instructors Staff Graduate Students Home Sociology People Joseph Lariscy Joseph Lariscy Assistant Professor Phone (901) 678-2612 Email joseph.lariscy@memphis.edu Fax (901) 678-2525 Office Clement Hall, Room 223 Office Hours By Appointment CV About Joseph Lariscy Joseph Lariscy is an Assistant Professor of Sociology at the University of Memphis. He is a health sociologist trained in social demographic methods with interests in racial/ethnic health disparities. He received his Ph.D. in Sociology from the University of Texas at Austin in 2013 and was previously an NIA Postdoctoral Fellow at the Population Research Institute at Duke University. Dr. Lariscy's primary research contributions examine racial/ethnic inequalities in older adult mortality risk and the early-life processes, particularly health behaviors and educational attainment, which engender or exacerbate later-life health disparities. His dissertation, entitled Racial and Ethnic Inequality in Adult Survival in the United States, drew on the social demographic perspective to examine racial/ethnic mortality differentials, with particular attention to the Hispanic paradox. A second line of his research agenda examines health risk behaviors, particularly tobacco use, among immigrants in adolescence and young adulthood. His research has been published in Demography, Social Science and Medicine, Journal of Aging and Health, Population Research and Policy Review, and Nicotine and Tobacco Research. Education Ph.D. University of Texas, Austin 2013 Publications Lariscy, Joseph T ., Robert A. Hummer, and Mark D. Hayward. (2015). Hispanic Older AdultMortality in the United States: New Estimates and an Assessment of Factors Shaping the Hispanic Paradox. Demography 52(1):1-14. Gorman, Bridget K., Joseph T. Lariscy , and Charisma Kaushik. (2014). Gender, Acculturation,and Smoking Behaviors among U.S. Asian and Latino Immigrants. Social Science and Medicine 106:110-118. Lariscy, Joseph T ., Robert A. Hummer, Jessica M. Rath, Andrea C. Villanti, Mark D. Hayward, and Donna M. Vallone. (2013). Race/Ethnicity, Nativity, and Tobacco Use among U.S. Young Adults: Results from a Nationally-Representative Survey. Nicotine and Tobacco Research 15(8): 1417-1426. Wade, Becky, Joseph T. Lariscy , and Robert A. Hummer. (2013). Racial/Ethnic and Nativity Patterns of U.S. Adolescent and Young Adult Smoking. Population Research and Policy Review 32(3):353-371. Lariscy, Joseph T . (2011). Differential Record Linkage by Hispanic Ethnicity and Age in Linked Mortality Studies: Implications for the Epidemiologic Paradox. Journal of Aging and Health 23(8):1263-1284. Hummer, Robert A. and Joseph T. Lariscy . (2011). Educational Attainment and Adult Mortality. Chapter 12 (p. 241-262) in International Handbook of Adult Mortality. Richard G. Rogers and Eileen M. Crimmins (eds). New York: Springer. People Faculty Emeritus &amp; Emerita Faculty Advisors &amp; Instructors Staff Graduate Students Community Out of Chaos "portray the idea of chaos to community in Memphis." Online B.A. Want to pursue your college degree and manage your busy lifestyle? Experience online classes at the UofM. Contact Us Main Office Contacts and Location Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .