#http://libanswers.memphis.edu/faq/34717
Q. Where do I find my UUID password expiration date? - LibAnswers Skip to Main Content University Libraries Home Page LibAnswers Warning: Your browser has javascript disabled. Without javascript some functions will not work, including question submission via the form. Q. Where do I find my UUID password expiration date? Ask Another Question Search Browse: All Topics 33 Access to Resources 2 Alumni 7 Articles 13 Campus Resources 12 Catalog 10 Circulation 6 Citations 2 Collections 7 Computers 5 Copying 28 Databases 2 Dissertations & Theses 2 Ebooks 2 Educational Support Program 2 Faculty 2 Genealogy 18 Government Resources 1 Group Study Rooms 5 Guests 6 Hours and Locations 5 Instructional Services 6 Interlibrary loan 6 Journals 3 Laptops 11 Library Services & Policies 2 Microform 4 Newspapers 1 Nursing 1 Obituaries 1 Periodicals 1 Preservations & Special Collections 9 Printing 2 RefWorks 7 Research Guides 22 Research Help 5 Reserve Room 3 RODP 1 Scanners 5 Statistics 4 Tests & Testing 2 Textbooks 2 Tutoring 6 UUID & Password 13 Video Tutorials 21 Websites 4 Writing Toggle action bar FAQ Actions Print Tweet Share on Facebook Was this helpful? 0 1 Topics Access to Resources Alumni Articles Campus Resources Catalog Circulation Citations Collections Computers Copying Databases Dissertations & Theses Ebooks Educational Support Program Faculty Genealogy Government Resources Group Study Rooms Guests Hours and Locations Instructional Services Interlibrary loan Journals Laptops Library Services & Policies Microform Newspapers Nursing Obituaries Periodicals Preservations & Special Collections Printing RefWorks Research Guides Research Help Reserve Room RODP Scanners Statistics Tests & Testing Textbooks Tutoring UUID & Password Video Tutorials Websites Writing View All Topics Answered By: Cindi Nichols Last Updated: Sep 16, 2015 Views: 25 All University of Memphis UUID account holders are required to change their password every six months. You will receive an email when your password is about to expire, but to check your password expiration date: Within iAM, this is how to check when your password will expire: Login to with your UUID and password. At the top of the screen, you&#39;ll see &quot;Note: Your current password will expire...&quot; If the expiration date is soon, to change it, click the &quot;Change Password&quot; link directly below the &quot;Note:..&quot; Within the mymemphis portal, this is how to check when your password will expire: Login to with your UUID and password. Ensure you&#39;re on the Home tab when the portal opens. If you&#39;re not already on the Home tab, select it from the Tab bar. The Password Expiration Notice channel should appear in the center of your Home tab. It will display how many days are left until your password will expire and provide a link to iam.memphis.edu where you can change your password. If you need assistance please contact the umTech Helpdesk at 901.678.8888. Chat Other Ways to Contact Us Comments (0) Add a public comment to this FAQ Entry University Libraries - The University of Memphis - Memphis, TN 38152 - 901-678-2205 Powered by Springshare ; All rights reserved. Login to LibApps