#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/pdfs/hiaddoctoralhandbook.pdf
Doctoral Student Handbook Higher and Adult Education Last Revised 08/26 /2014 Table of Contents Click on a chapter title to go directly to that chapter. 1 1 ) ) C C a a m m p p u u s s R R e e s s o o u u r r c c e e s s a a n n d d I I n n f f o o r r m m a a t t i i o o n n ................................ ................................ ........................ 3 2 2 ) ) H H I I A A D D P P r r o o g g r r a a m m O O v v e e r r v v i i e e w w ................................ ................................ ................................ ........ 5 3 3 ) ) H H i i g g h h e e r r a a n n d d A A d d u u l l t t E E d d u u c c a a t t i i o o n n F F a a c c u u l l t t y y a a n n d d S S t t a a f f f f ................................ ................................ ........ 6 4 4 ) ) H H I I A A D D D D o o c c t t o o r r a a l l P P r r o o g g r r a a m m F F o o r r m m s s & & T T i i m m e e l l i i n n e e ................................ ................................ ........... 8 5 5 ) ) H H I I A A D D A A d d v v i i s s i i n n g g I I n n f f o o r r m m a a t t i i o o n n ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 9 6 6 ) ) P P r r o o f f e e s s s s i i o o n n a a l l A A s s s s o o c c i i a a t t i i o o n n s s ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 10 7 7 ) ) Writing Resources ................................ ................................ ................................ ................. 11 8 8 ) ) D D i i s s s s e e r r t t a a t t i i o o n n G G u u i i d d e e l l i i n n e e s s ................................ ................................ ................................ .......... 13 9 9 ) ) F F r r e e q q u u e e n n t t l l y y A A s s k k e e d d Q Q u u e e s s t t i i o o n n s s ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 15 1 1 0 0 ) ) S u u r r v v i i v v a a l l T T i i p p s s ................................ ................................ ................................ ......................... 20 1 1 ) ) C C a a m m p p u u s s R R e e s s o o u u r r c c e e s s a a n n d d I I n n f f o o r r m m a a t t i i o o n n In this section, you will find links to webpag es that will be useful to you as you pursue a graduate degree at the University of Memphis. The text underlined and in a lighter color is a hyperlink which will take you directly to the corresponding page on the University of Memphis website. Student Servi ces Bookstore 506 University Drive 678 - 2011 Bursar 115 Wilder Tower 678 - 5579 Campus Recreation and Fitness Center 620 Echles 678 - 2801 Finan cial Aid 103 Wilder Tower 678 - 4825 Graduate School 215 Administration Building 678 - 2531 Health Services 200 Hudson 678 - 2287 Library 126 Ned R McWherter 678 - 2201 Parking 120 Zach Curlin Parking Garage 678 - 2212 Registrar 003 Wilder Tower 678 - 2810 Student Disability Services 110 Wilder Tower 678 - 2810 Important Links Useful Links: Academic Calendar Advising APA Manual (6th Edition) required CEHHS Doctoral Handbook Current Tuition and Fees Graduate Catalog Graduation Information Facebook PageImmunization Exemption IRBLink to Assistantship Information Office for Students with Disabilities Program Doctoral Handbook Schedule of Classes for Online Ed.D. in Higher Education To eCourseware To Library To Pay Tuition and Fees To Register Policies: Annual Review Policy Review and Dismissal policy Staying continuously enrolled University Policy on Email Video Conference Requirement Forms: CEHHS Graduate Forms IRB Instructions for Applications Comprehensive Exams: Comprehensive Exam Policy Adult Education Exam Question Higher Education Exam Question Research Design Exam Question Evaluation Criteria Evaluation Form 2 2 ) ) H H I I A A D D P P r r o o g g r r a a m m O O v v e e r r v v i i e e w w Description of the Adult Education Concentration Description of the Higher Education Concentration Department of Leadership home page and information Vision and Mission of the Program The vision and mission of the Department of Leadership provide the context for instruction, research, and service as an integral part of the College and responsibilities to the Memphis urban community, the State of Tennessee, and the global society. The vision of the Department of Leadership is: The Department of Leadership in the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences at the University of Memphis seeks to empower faculty and students as leaders responsive to the educational needs of a multicultural, technological and global society. As stipulated in the COE Vision, the program faculty in HIAD is dedicated to interdisciplinary cooperation, participative decision - making and mutual trust to deal with change on a daily basis. The HIAD program meets the two elements of the COE Vision 1)The HIAD faculty recognizes that students develop professionally when associated with a well prepared, dynamic, and intellectually engaged faculty operating within a comfortable and state - of - the - art technological academic environment, and 2) The vision of the HIAD program includes a national and international perspective achieved primarily through effective research. The mission of the Department of Leadership is: The mission of the Department of Leadership is to assist individuals to develop the knowledge, skills and dispositions appropriate for leaders of schools and other organizations that serve the educational needs of a changing society and to participate in scholarly inquiry; educational service, and leadership roles that contribute to the development of education in the United States through policy formulation, more effective governance, and improved practice. The HIAD faculty supports the three - pronged mission of the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences by: 1.) Preparing teachers, licensed personnel, and education - related professionals who are qualified and competent in both practice and theory to become effective educational leaders; 2.) Conducting educational research and disseminate its outcomes; and, 3.) Providing teaching, research, and service that extends beyond the confines of the campus to our urban setting and other outreach locations. 33))HHiigghheerr aanndd AAdduulltt EEdduuccaattiioonn FFaaccuullttyy aanndd SSttaaffffDirectory Click on a name to see the faculty profile. Click on the email address to send an email. Faculty Office Extension Email Dr. Mitsunori Misawa Browning Hall 302 4060 mmisawa@memphis.edu Research Interests: Adult & Higher Education; Policy & Leadership Studies; Adult Development; Women's & Gender Studies; Curriculum & Instruction for Adults; and Research Methodologies Dr. Jeffery Wilson Browning Hall 313 3428 j.l.wilson@memphis.edu Research Interests: Higher education leadership and diversity; college students affairs, specifically minority enrollment and retention; and multicultural education Dr. Donna Menke Browning Hall 306 1477 djmenke@memphis.edu Research Interests: Higher education retention & academic advising; college student athletes; and career development CSHE Staff Office Extension Ball Hall 123 2797 Email 4 4 ) ) H H I I A A D D D D o o c c t t o o r r a a l l P P r r o o g g r r a a m m F F o o r r m m s s & & T T i i m m e e l l i i n n e e Please consult the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences doctoral degree handbook for specifics regarding the steps to completing a doctoral degree, the forms required and the respective deadlines. 5 5 ) ) H H I I A A D D A A d d v v i i s s i i n n g g I I n n f f o o r r m m a a t t i i o o n n The following resources will provide more details on the coursework required for these degrees. Adult Ed ucation Program of Studies Higher Education Program of Studies Certificate in Community College Teaching and Leadership 6 6 ) ) P P r r o o f f e e s s s s i i o o n n a a l l A A s s s s o o c c i i a a t t i i o o n n s s Higher and Adult Education Professional Associations, Councils and Centers American Association for Adult and Continuing Education (AAACE) American Association for Higher Education & Accreditation (AAHE) American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers (AACRAO) American Association of Community Colleges (AACC) American Association of State Colleges and Universities (AASCU) American Association of University Administrators (AAUA) American Association of University Professors (AAUP) American College Personnel Association (ACPA) America n Council on Education (ACE) American Educational Research Association (AERA) Association of American Colleges and Universities (AAC&U) Association for Institutional Research (AIR) Association for the Study of Higher Education (ASHE) Center for Higher Education Policy Studies (CHEPS) Center for the Study of Higher Education (CSHE) College and University Personnel Association (CUPA) Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE) Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) Council of Graduate Schools (CGS) EDUCAUSE Institute for Higher Education Policy (IHEP) League for Innovation in the Community College National Academic Advising Association (NACADA) National Association of College/University Business Officers (NACUBO) National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities cu.edu (NAICU) National Association of State Universities & Land - Grant Colleges (NASULGC) National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators (NASFAA) National Association of Student Personnel Administrators (NASPA) National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education ghereducation.org Southern Association of Schools/Colleges, Commission on Colleges (SACS) State Higher Education Executive Officers (SHEEO) 7 7 ) ) Writing Resources APA Style In your Higher and Adult Education courses you will be asked to use the APA system in your submitted papers and dissertation. The American Psychological Association (APA) sty le is the preferred means of citing resources in social sciences. The Publication Manual of the American Psychological Association, which is in its 6th edition, provides a comprehensive reference guide to writing using APA style and organization. Below are just a few of the reference websites that provide guidance by introducing you to the APA style, explaining the APA elements, and providing examples of APA style in citations and references. Please note, however, that these resources do not replace the APA Manual itself, which you should purchase. _id=796 nline/cite6.html htt m /res o urce/APA%20Research%20Style%20Crib%20Sheet.htm University of Memphis Ned R. McWherter Library Information (901) 678 - 2208 (Reference and Information) Library Help Ask TOM (Frequently Asked Questions) Library Databases Search Online Journal Titles Popular Higher and Adult Education Journals and Magazines AAHE Bulletin Action Learning: Research and Practice Adult Education and Development Adult Education Quarterly Adult Learning American Journal of Distance Education, The ASHE - ERIC Report Business Officer California Management Review Change Chronicle of Higher Education, The Community College Journal Community College Journal of Research and Practice Convergence Educational Administration Quarterly EDUCAUSE Center for Applied Research Publications Research Bulletins, Research Studies, ROADM AP EDUCAUSE Quarterly EDUCAUSE Review Futurist, The Harvard Business Review Higher Education Management Higher Education Quarterly Higher Education Review Innovative Higher Education Journal of Adult Development Journal of Asynchronous Learning Networks Jo urnal of Blacks in Higher Education, The Journal of College Student Development Journal of Distance Education Journal of Educators Online, The Journal of General Education, The Journal of Higher Education, The Journal of Transformative Education Journal o n Excellence in College Teaching Leader to Leader Leadership Quarterly Leadership and Organization Development Journal MIT Sloan Management Review NACADA Journal NASPA Journal New Directions for Adult and Continuing Education New Directions for Student Services New Horizons in Adult Education On the Horizon Online Journal of Distance Learning Administration Recruitment and Retention in Higher Education Research in Higher Education, The Review of Higher Education Studies in Higher Education Studies in the Education of Adults Systems Thinker Teachers College Record Technological Horizons in Education Journal Technology & Learning 8 8 ) ) D D i i s s s s e e r r t t a a t t i i o o n n G G u u i i d d e e l l i i n n e e s s Diss ertation Resources Black, T. R. (1999). Doing Quantitative Research in the Social Sciences: An Integrated Approach to Research Design, Measurement and Statistics. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE Publications. Bolker, J. (1998). Writing Your Dissertation in Fifteen Minutes a Day: A Guide to Starting, Revising, and Finishing Your Doctoral Thesis. New York, NY: Henry Holt and Company. Cone, J. D. & Forster, S. L. (1993). Dissertations and Theses from Start to Finish. Washington, D.C.: American Psychological A ssociation. Creswell, J. W. (2002). Research Design: Qualitative, Quantitative, and Mixed Methods Approaches. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE Publications. Davis, G. B. & Parker, C. A. (1997). Writing the Doctoral Dissertation: A Systematic Approach. Hauppauge, NY: Barrons Educational Series. Denzin, N. K. & Lincoln, Y. S. (Eds.). (2000). Handbook of Qualitative Research. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE Publications. Fitzpatrick, J., Secrist, J., & Wright, D. J. (1998). Secrets for a Successful Dissertation. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE Publications. Girden, E. R. (2001). Evaluating Research Articles from Start to Finish. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE Publications. Glatthorn, A. A. (1998). Writing the Winning Dissertation: A Step - by - Step Guide. Thousand O aks, CA: Corwin Press. Locke, L., Spirduso, W. & Silverman, S. (2007). Proposals that Work: A guide for planning dissertations and grant proposals. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. Madsen, D. (1991). Successful Dissertations and Theses. San Francisco, CA: John Wi ley and Sons. Meloy, J. M. (2001). W riting the Qualitative Disseration. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. Peters, R. (1997). Getting what you came for: The a Ph.D. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux. Rudestam, K. E. & Newton, R. R. (2001). Surviving Your Dissertation: A Comprehensive Guide to Content and Process. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE Publications. Sternberg, D. (1981). How to Complete and Survive a Doctoral Dissertation. New York, NY: Griffin. Some helpful articles about writing the dissertation : Gravois, J. (2007, September 14). The dissertation mystique. The Chronicle of Higher Education, 54(3), A8. Retrieved January 30, 2009, from . Perlmutter, D. & Porter, L. (2005, December 16). Thinking beyond the dissertation. The Chronicle of Higher Education, 52(17), C1. Retrieved January 30, 2009, from . TYPICAL DISSERTATION PROSPECTUS GUIDELINES The purposes of a dissertation prospectus are (a) to focus on the thinking towards a researchable problem, (b) to define the methodology to answer questions related to the problem, and (c) to serve as an agreement between the student and dissertation committee. A prospectus answers these purposes by establishing the rationale for t h e study and then by describing the methodology. The prospectus should address the following elements, though it is not necessary to include a separate section for each element. Rationale for the Study Purpose Statement describes the purposes of the study. Conceptual Framework orients the reader to the assumptions and the theoretical basis for the study. Significance/Importance/Rationale includes a review of the literature, which establishes the significance, importance, and rationale for the study, as well as provides the basis for the statement of the problem. Problem Statement includes a researchable problem. Research Questions includes hypotheses or research questions that evolve from the problem. Definition of Terms includes definitions of terms essential to the understanding of the proposed study. Methodology Subjects/Participants identifies the subjects and demographic data that describe the subjects and the data collection setting. Design identifies the variables and/or phenomena to be examined and discusses the limitations of the chosen design. Materials and/or Instrumentation details a description of materials and instrumentation to be employed in the study; description should include information on the development, testing, and implementation of materials and instrumentation, and materials or instruments used (e.g. questionnaires, interview schedules, etc.) Procedure details the description of every step involved in data collection, including a projected time line. Analysis indicates the type(s) of analysis(es) to be used and their related procedures. 9 9 ) ) F F r r e e q q u u e e n n t t l l y y A A s s k k e e d d Q Q u u e e s s t t i i o o n n s s 1. What is an advisory committee? After admission to the doctoral program, the student will be assigned a major advisor, who must be a full member of the Graduate Faculty, to chair the student's Advisory Committee. This committee will work closely with the student to formulate an approved program of study. The program head, following consultation with the student and major advisor, will approve the appointment of a minimum of three members to the Advisory Committee. Only one adjunct or affiliate graduate faculty member may serve as a voting member on an advisory committee. These appointments will be forwarded to the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Studies. The advisory committee is not necessarily, but may be, the same as the dissertation committee 2. What is a dissertation committee? The student will select a dissertation committee (minimum of four members) made up of graduate faculty approved by the head of the academic unit and/or the college director. The chair of the dissertation committee must hold full graduate faculty status. It is strongly recommended that one member be outside the discipline. Only one affiliate or adjunct graduate faculty member may serve as a vo ting member of a dissertation committee. If the dissertation committee differs from the advisory committee, a new committee form must be filed with the Graduate School. 3. What is residency and how do you fulfill the residency requirement? The purpose of res idency is to provide doctoral students with significant time for sustained participation with peers and faculty members in scholarly/creative activities. Residency is expected to be a vehicle for socialization into the shared community of professional life. Expected outcomes are the acquisition of skills of inquiry, development of research techniques and the incorporation of professional values. Residency is achieved through one of the following course enrollment options: a. 9 hrs/semester for 2 consecutive semesters b. 6 hrs/semester for 3 consecutive semesters c. Consecutive enrollment for: 9 hrs first summer 3 hrs fall 3 hrs spring 9 hrs second summer The Doctoral Residency Plan is filed in the Office of Graduate Studies at the beginning of the semester that is to count for residency. Students must have an approved program of studies on file before residency can begin. 4. How long will it take for me to complete degree requirements for the Ed.D. in Higher and Adult Education? How long it takes to complete degree requirements it relates to the fulfillment of course requirements, residency project, comprehensive exams, and completion of the dissertation. A student has to take 15 classes to finish the required coursework. Progress can be made on the residency project and comprehensive exams while a student is enrolled in coursework. However, a student must successfully complete the residency project and core classes before taking comprehensive exams. Comprehensive exams must be successfully completed before a student can begin working on the dissertation. Doctoral degrees must be earned within twelve (12) consecutive years. All course work must be completed within ten (10) years of the student's original admission to a doctoral program. The student may take a further two years of dissertation credit. There are no exceptions to program time limitations. 5. What is a residency project? Each student is required to complete a residency research project and it should include the following: Problem specification Importance of problem Literature review Releva nt theoretical implications Plan of action with time frame Tools of inquiry Faculty resources Product (submission of final product to a refereed journal that is peer - reviewed or presentation of product at a conference) A copy of the final product of the scholarly activity must be on file in the Office of Graduate Studies before a student can be cleared to take doctoral comprehensive exams. 6. What are comprehensive exams? When a student in good standing has completed all basic required coursework for the doctoral degree or is enrolled in the last semester of coursework (exclusive of dissertation hours), he/she must pass a comprehensive examination. This examination must contain both written and oral components, coveri ng the major and collateral fields of study. Performance must be acceptable to the Advisory Committee (not more than one dissenting vote is allowed). The result of the exam (positive or negative) must be communicated to the Graduate School on the Comprehen sive Results Form within the same semester the exam was taken or by the specified deadline in the Graduate Bulletin. Protocols and procedures for administration of comprehensive examinations can be obtained at the departmental level. The comprehensive examination is not a course; therefore the results of the examination cannot be appealed, nor can they be changed after the form has been filed with the Graduate School. Students may take the examination a second time, however. A second failure results in termination, which can be appealed. The retention appeals process is formalized and must be followed in all cases. A student may register for dissertation hours only after passing the comprehensive examin ation, submitting the results to the Graduate School, and submitting an approved "Application for Admission to Doctoral Candidacy" to the Graduate School. 7. What is a dissertation and what are the requirements regarding the completion of a dissertation? An acceptable dissertation is a requirement for all doctoral degrees. The dissertation must represent a significant scholarly effort that culminates in an original contribution to the field of inquiry. It should reflect the candidate's ability to conduct i ndependent research and interpret in a logical manner the facts and phenomena revealed by the research. The dissertation proposal (or prospectus) is developed under the guidance of the dissertation committee. All members of the dissertation committee must approve the proposal (prospectus) and the approved form must be filed with the Graduate School. If human or animal subjects are involved, the appropriate approval forms must accompany the approved Thesis/Dissertation Proposal form. Approval from the inst itutional review board must be secured before undertaking any research. The dissertation must meet the specific regulations of the academic unit in which the student is majoring and the Graduate School. Consult the academic unit for the acceptable format. Students should also familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. The final draft must be appr oved by all members of the dissertation committee and by the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Studies. This final draft of the dissertation must be submitted to the Graduate School after the defense along with an original committee approval page. A min imum of three copies of the dissertation must be submitted for binding. The dissertation, which will be microfilmed, must be accompanied by an unnumbered abstract of not more than 350 words. The abstract will be published. After the completion of the dissertation and all other prescribed work for the degree, candidates will be given a final oral examination dealing with the dissertation and its relation to the candidate's major field of study. The student's dissertation advisory committee will conduct this exam. All members must be present at the examination. If the student's performance on this examination is satisfactory as judged unanimously by the committee, all requirements for the degree will have been completed. Students must be enrolled in the s emester during which they defend the dissertation. 8. Are classes scheduled to accommodate someone with a full - time job? The scheduling of courses will accommodate the schedule of someone with a full - time job. Courses are generally held in the evening and on weekends. 9. What career opportunities are available to me once I complete this degree? The Ed.D. program in Higher and Adult Education (HIAD) is designed for those individuals seeking doctoral - level preparation primarily for mid - and senior - level administrative positions in higher education institutions or higher education institutions or higher education - related agencies, boards, and commissions, or for community or corporate e ducation agencies. The concentration in Higher Education focuses on education at colleges and universities or higher education - related associations. The concentration in Adult Education focuses on educating adults in corporate, community, or postsecondary education settings. What is research? If you google what is research many different definitions. Not surprisingly, if you asked this question of several faculty in the leadership department, you would receive several different definitions as well. We each have received different training in research methods, have different personal preferences, and different experiences with several methods. There is literature research , which requ ires you to read widely and deeply in the resaerch literature; fortunately, many (although not all) such journals are available online through the McWherter library site. The point here is to be familiar with what other research has been conducted and what they have found, but also how well the research was designed and conducted. In other words, you need to be able to critique this research as well as describe its findings in the literature review of the dissertation and/or relate your study to previou s research in later chapters of the qualitative dissertation. There is quantitative research , which requires the testing of theories and invloves the design, collection, and analysis of data through statistical methods to test hypotheses. This includes exp eriements and surveys, various psychometric instruments and existing databases (such as those collected and maintained by the U.S. Department of Education). Your Stats I and II classes will be most pertinent for this type of research. There is qualitative research , which also collects data through interviews, documents, focus groups, etc. and analyzes this information to develop, test, or evaluate a theory. This includes case studies, ethnographic research, grounded theory, and biography or history. There is a qualitative research class that will help you learn these skills. Both types of research may involve gathering and analyzing quantitative data. And some studies require a mix of both types of research, leading to a growth in the popularity of mixed - methods research . In any case, every study must be extremely well - designed so that we can have confidence in its results. Each faculty person will have different preferences for how the dissertation may be done, so work with your chair on the design and implementation of your residency project and dissertation. Your residency project can help you prepare for the dissertation, and provide you with an opportunity to pilot test a new in strument, or interview individuals to improve your interviewing skills, or in some way get you ready for the dissertation. Work with your advisor or chair to explore ideas and identify important books and authors to read. Remember, research is a big topic and requires that you learn a whole new body of information, skills, and competencies. It takes time and persistence, but is always interesting and challenging. Try to get to know the faculty and find out their interests and prefer ences so that you can select the best person to chair your dissertation. 1 1 0 0 ) ) S S u u r r v v i i v v a a l l T T i i p p s s The Top 9 Survival Tips for HIAD Students A list compiled by current HIAD students and recent graduates. 9. Unders tand Why You Are Becoming a Doctoral Student. When entering the HIAD program, clearly understand why you have chosen to pursue a doctorate and remember your reason. Also, think about the types of experiences you would like to have as a doctoral student. Determine what needs to happen during your doctoral program for you to successfully accomplish your professional goals. 8. Do Not Fear Statistics. Take statistics early in your doctoral program and begin to use it. Consider taking more than the two required statistics courses. The statistics courses will help you develop your methodology and results sections of your dissertation. 7. Paperwork, Paperwork, Paperwork . There is no shortage of paperwork to submit in your doctoral program. Be sure to know what forms must be completed, when they are due, and to whom to submit them. Be patient with the paperwork process. 6. Prepare Early for Comprehensive Exams. Keep all of your textbooks and compile all of your class materials (i.e. notes and handouts) from each course to be better prepared for comprehensive exams. Your organization and thoroughness will prove to be invaluable. 5. Choose Your Dissertation Committee Wisely. Forming your dissertation committee will be one of the most important decisions you ever make. Get to know the HIAD professors early in your program and familiarize yourself with their respective research interests. 4. You Are Not Alone. Insert yourself immediately into the community of fellow graduate students and build a peer group. Your peer group will provide you with not only an exchange of information, but also support and encouragement. 3. Begin Thinking About Your Research Interests. Start thinking about your residency project and dissertation topic early in the program. Write as many papers about your chosen research area in your courses to help build your dissertation literature review. Additionally, really learn the APA style. Read the manual and visit some of the many APA resource websites. 2. Communicate wi th Your Advisor. Maintain constant communication with your advisor. Meet with him or her as often as you can during each semester. Work closely with your advisor to ensure that all doctoral requirements are met in a timely manner and to stay informed of new information concerning forms, deadlines, and opportunities. 1. Hang in There and Do Not Give Up ! Be sure to take care of yourself mentally, emotionally, physically, and spiritually. Being a doctoral student can be very stressful and overwhelming at times, especially when you are learning to balance your family, career, and academic obligations. But know that you are not alone in this. You have a built - in support system of peers and faculty to assist you in your journey.