#http://www.memphis.edu/umtech/student_sucess/recommended_hardware.php
Recommended Hardware/Software - umTech - Information Technology Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. umTech - Information Technology Services Service Support Teaching Smart Tech Students Solutions Student Success Academic Integrity eCourseware Clickers Media Services Qualtrics Hardware/Software Web Conferencing Additional Services Home umTech - Information Technology Services Student Success Recommended Hardware/Software Recommended Hardware/Software for Students Technology changes so frequently, once we think we have caught up, then we're behind again. Connecting with a Technology Coach is a great way to keep up with new hardware and software releases and important changes in technology. But, what do you need for success in your classes right now? Below is a list of recommended equipment and their specifications. If you believe you need to update your technology, you may want to bookmark this page on your mobile device and reference it when you're ready to select the most appropriate equipment. Remember, these recommendations are minimum to average. You can always go for the larger specifications based on what your budget and computing need. Software Microsoft Office is available at a discount for UoM students. Or as a Microsoft email user, through Office 365. Adobe Acrobat Reader is free for students to viewing, printing, and annotating PDFs. Java is also a free software that will help with mostly supported applications on any computer. Desktops Mac Desktop / iMac 21.5”: 2.7 GHz Processor 2.7GHz quad-core Intel Core i5 processor RAM 8GB 1600MHz DDR3 SDRAM Hard Drive 1TB Serial ATA Drive @ 5400 rpm Display 21.5 inch Operating System OS X Mavericks PC Desktop / Inspiron One 23”: 3.4GHz Processor 3rd Generation Intel® Core™ i3-3240 processor (3M Cache, 3.4 GHz) RAM 8GB Dual Channel DDR3 1600MHz - 2 DIMMsssor (3M Cache, 3.4 GHz) Hard Drive 1TB 7200RPM SATA 3.0Gb/s Hard Drive Display 23" Full HD (1080p) resolution touch screen Operating System Windows 8.1 (64Bit) English Laptops Mac Laptop / MacBook Pro 13”: 2.5GHz Processor 2.5GHz dual-core Intel Core i5 processor RAM 8GB 1600MHz DDR3 SDRAM Hard Drive 500GB Serial ATA @ 5400rpm Display 13 inch Operating System OS X Mavericks PC Laptop / Inspiron 14 5000 Series: 2.7 GHz Processor 4th Generation Intel® Core™ i5-4210U processor (3M Cache, up to 2.7 GHz) or 4th Generation Intel® Core™ i7-4510U processor (4M Cache, up to 3.1 GHz) RAM 8GB 2 DIMM (2x4GB) DDR3L 1600Mhz Hard Drive 1TB 5400 rpm SATA Hard Drive Display 14.0 inch LED Backlit Touch Display with HD resolution (1366 x 768) Operating System Windows 8.1 (64Bit) English Tablets iOS Tablet / iPad Air: 16GB Processor A7m7 chip with quad-core graphics RAM 1GB DDR3 RAM Hard Drive 16GB Display 9.7 Operating System iOS 8 or later Android Tablet 32GB Processor quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon™ S4 Pro RAM 2GB Hard Drive Choose 16GB or 32GB internal storage Display 7 Operating System Android Windows Tablet 64GB Processor Intel Quad-Core Baytrail-T Z3740 1.33GHz RAM 2 GB DDR3L RAM Hard Drive 32GB Tablet, 500GB Dock or 64 GB Tablet and 500GB dock Display 10"1 Operating System Windows 8 Student Success Academic Integrity eCourseware Clickers Media Services Qualtrics Hardware/Software Web Conferencing Additional Services Let Us Help! Call 901.678.8888. Available Now. Chat Live Monday - Friday 8:00 am - 7:00 pm CDT Ask Tom Search this collection of questions and answers to find solutions to a variety of technical problems. New Service Desk System Learn more about the new service support system. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/10/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .