#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/edu/icl.php
Instruction and Curriculum Leadership - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Dr. Lee All Interim Chair DUANE M. GIANNANGELO, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies 901.678.2373 SHELBY TATE MS, Ed.S and Ed.D. Graduate Advisor 901.678.4861 LARUTH LOFTIES MAT Graduate Advisor icl-graduate-studies@memphis.edu Mailing Address: Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Ball Hall Room 404 Memphis, TN 38152 I. Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Overview, Programs, and Admission Deadlines A. Overview The Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) offers graduate programs leading to the Master of Science, Master of Arts in Teaching, and Doctor of Education degrees. Graduate students can also take Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) courses that focus on educational technology and design and development in various traditional and non-traditional educational settings that will lead to a Certificate in Instructional Design and Technology. The department also offers courses that lead to Certificates in Literacy Leadership and Coaching, Urban Education, and Autism Studies. The University of Memphis participates in the Regents Online Master of Education degree (MEd) in Advanced Studies in Teaching and Learning. The College of Education, Health and Human Sciences is accredited by the National Council for the Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE). Program objectives are: (1) understanding of how learning occurs, how students construct knowledge and acquire skills, and how to provide learning opportunities that support intellectual, social, and personal development; (2) ability to adapt instructional techniques to diverse cultural and language backgrounds and to those with exceptional learning needs; (3) understands the principles and techniques associated with various instructional strategies that reflect best practice and that foster high expectations for all students; and (4) ability to use multiple teaching and learning strategies that engage students in active learning opportunities. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. B. Definition of Programs Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) Degree. The MAT program is designed for students seeking initial teacher licensure and a Master’s degree. Programs are offered in Early Childhood (PreK-3), Elementary Education (K-5), Secondary Education (grades 6-12), Music (K-12); English Second Language (K-12); Art (K-12); and Physical Education Teacher Education (K-12), and Special Education (K-12). Students choosing Special Education will choose one of three licensure areas: interventionist, comprehensive, or early childhood. MAT students should apply to TEP as soon as they enroll for courses. TEP admission, MAT admission, and Graduate School admission are separate procedures. Teacher Education Program (TEP). TEP is NOT a degree program. It is regulated by the Tennessee Department of Education and administered by the Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership. The TEP program requires an application and admission procedures that are separate and distinct from admission to the Master of Arts in Teaching program. Students should apply to TEP as soon as they enroll in College of Education, Health and Human Sciences courses. Master of Science (MS) Degree. The MS degree is NOT designed for students seeking initial teacher licensure. It is designed for students who are seeking advanced study in education with a concentration in Instruction and Curriculum, Instructional Design and Technology, Reading, Early Childhood Education, or Special Education. Master of Education (MEd) Degree. The University of Memphis participates in the Regents Online Master of Education degree (MEd) in Advanced Studies in Teaching and Learning. This program provides advanced professional preparation in the area of reading and language arts for practicing teachers. Doctor of Education (EdD). The Doctor of Education degree is designed to improve the competency of teachers, to serve the career needs and goals of individuals in education-related fields, to encourage research in a student’s area of concentration, and to initiate and implement programs involving the schools and the community. Concentrations are offered in Instruction and Curriculum, Instructional Design and Technology, Reading, Early Childhood Education, or Special Education. Education Specialist (EdS) Degree. The Education Specialist is an interdisciplinary degree designed to provide an individualized, flexible program of studies for the educator-practitioner in either a school or non-school setting, whose academic interests are aimed at specific and individual career goals and needs. It offers opportunities for advanced professional specialization and includes a relevant culminating experience or a thesis. Students in this program may choose a content area specialty from any of the concentration areas offered under the MAT or MS degrees. C. Application Deadlines Applicants to the ICL graduate programs are evaluated periodically throughout the year. All application information must be received by February 1 for summer semesters, April 1 for fall semesters, and October 1 for spring semesters. II. Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) Degree Program A. MAT Program Admission Applicants must complete admissions requirements to be admitted. All admissions requirements must be met prior to being admitted into the MAT program. MAT admission requirements are designed to be both competitive and selective, to be knowledge and performance-based, to be clear and consistent, to maintain diversity, and to meet or exceed undergraduate requirements and minimum state requirements. To be admitted to the MAT program a candidate must: Take and pass all sections of the Core Academics Skills for Educations (CORE). (Reading, Writing, and Math). If the GRE has already been taken, the student may have the CORE waived if the scores are appropriate (verbal 143, quantitative 138, writing 3.5) and are less than 5 years old. Take and pass the Praxis II Content Knowledge Exam required for the student licensure area. Please refer to to verify what exam should be taken. Submit an application to Graduate Admissions in 101 Wilder Tower including the following: An official transcript reflecting an earned bachelor's degree with a 3.0 or higher grade point average from an accredited institution. Applicants with a successful professional career may appeal this grade point average requirement. Passing scores on the CORE Academic Skills for Educators reading (156), writing (162), and math (150) subtests. Passing scores on the Praxis II Content Knowledge Exam for the licensure area they plan to teach. (NOTE: Special Education applicants may submit passing scores on the Elementary Content Knowledge Exam, Middle School Content Knowledge Exam, or the Education of Exceptional Student: Core Content Knowledge Exam.) Submit the ICL department MAT application ( ) to the Graduate Analyst in Ball Hall 215 (3798 Walker Ave, Memphis, TN 38152) along with copies of the CORE and Praxis II Content Knowledge scores. B. TEP Program Admission Students who plan to pursue a graduate program of studies leading to teacher licensure must submit a formal application to the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences Teacher Education Program (TEP). Students are encouraged to apply for admission into TEP as soon as they enroll in any College of Education, Health and Human Sciences courses. TEP admissions deadlines are September 15 for fall and January 31 for spring. Requirements for provisional admission into TEP include: A grade point average of 3.25 at the graduate level and undergraduate grade point average of 3.0 or higher; Successful completion of a professional interview; Pass all sections of the CORE Academic Skills for Educators; Pass the Praxis II Content Knowledge Exam required by the State of Tennessee for the licensure area being pursued. TBI Background Check Completion of teacher aptitude survey Requirements for full admission to TEP must be completed prior to the Clinical Teaching Semester and/or the semester candidates enroll in ICL 7993. They include: 3.25 graduate grade point average Interview by program faculty with on-demand writing sample Exemplar work sample utilizing the professional portfolio Passing scores on all required Praxis II Licensure Exams Licensure and Graduation: Candidates participating in the Clinical Teaching Semester and/or ICL 7993 must submit a successful edTPA. Transitionally licensed candidates must have a composite of 3.0 on the Teacher Evaluation used in their employing district or have a letter verifying renewal by the employing district. Students must be provisionally admitted to the Teacher Education Program (TEP) before completing all Level I courses and starting Level II courses. (Level I Professional Core courses provide requisite foundations for teaching and should be completed before taking Level II Professional Specialization courses that focus on specialized strategies for teaching and learning in educational environments). Students who do not apply to TEP or fail to maintain criteria during the program will not be allowed to continue in the program. NOTE: MAT admission, TEP admission, and Graduate School admission are separate procedures. C. Program Requirements for the Master of Arts in Teaching Students seeking licensure and the MAT degree must take a minimum of 30-46 graduate semester hours, depending on program and licensure area. Minimum hours may increase depending on licensure requirements. Students who are employed by a school district on a transitional license may have the Level III (clinical teaching semester) waived if they provide the necessary documentation to verify one year of successful teaching experience in their area of licensure with a composite Teacher Evaluation Score of 3.0 or higher. Students in this category should contact the Teacher Education Office in 202 Ball Hall for specific requirements. Please note that all initial licensure candidates must take ICL 7993, either along with clinical teaching semester or the last semester before applying for license if working on a transitional license. This course serves as the culminating experience and will require successful completion of the Teacher Performance Assessment (edTPA) to be able to be recommended for licensure. 1. Program Requirements Students seeking Early Childhood Licensure (PreK-3) and the MAT degree must complete the following requirements: Early Childhood (PreK-3) Level I Licensure Requirements: ECED 6510, EDPR 7110; ICL 7106, SPED 7000; IDT 7061. Early Childhood Level II and III Licensure Requirements: ECED 6520, 6530, 6540, 7102; RDNG 7553; ICL 7804 (6 hours), ICL 7993 (3 hours). Students are required to complete a minimum number of structured field experiences during the day in PreK-3 settings prior to clinical teaching semester. These field experiences will be incorporated into courses required for licensure. MAT Degree requirements in addition to (1), (2), and (3) above: EDPR 7521 and ICL 7993 (Professional Seminar &amp; Teacher Performance Assessment-3 Hours). Students seeking Elementary Licensure (K-5) and the MAT degree must complete the following requirements: Elementary (K-5) Level I Licensure Requirements: ICL 7059, SPED 7000; EDPR 7111; IDT 7061. Elementary Early Grades Level II and III Licensure Requirements: ICL 7504, 7605, 7654, 7709; RDNG 7553, 7554; ICL 7806 (6 hours), 7993 (3 hours); Elementary Early Grades students are required to complete a minimum number of structured field experiences during the day in elementary school settings prior to clinical teaching semester. These field experiences will be incorporated into courses required for licensure. MAT Degree requirements in addition to (1), (2), and (3) above: EDPR 7521 and ICL 7993 (Professional Seminar &amp; Teacher Performance Assessment-3 Hours). Clinical teaching semester students seeking Secondary Licensure and the MAT degree must complete the following requirements: Secondary Level I Licensure Requirements: IDT 7061; SPED 7000; EDPR 7112 (or EDPR 7117 or ASTL 7703 [RODP]); ICL 7030 or TELC 7002 (RODP); Secondary Level II and III Licensure Requirements: RDNG 7544; 3 hours of appropriate methods courses ICL 7174, 7303, 7502, 7602, 7652; BUED 7655; and ICL 7808 (6 hours) and ICL 7993 (3 hours). Students are required to complete a number of clinical/field experiences during the day in secondary school settings prior to clinical teaching semester. These field experiences will be incorporated into courses required for licensure. MAT Degree Requirements in addition to (1), (2), and (3) above: EDPR 7521 and ICL 7993 (Professional Seminar &amp; Teacher Performance Assessment-3 Hours). Must be taken prior to clinical teaching semester and ICL 7993. Students who wish to become licensed as a teacher of foreign languages that do not require a PRAXIS content knowledge test must pass the ACTFL Oral Proficiency Examination in addition to the requirements for licensure that other students must meet. Students seeking secondary licensure must select one of the following endorsement areas: art education, biology, chemistry, earth science, English, English as a Second Language, French, geography, German, government, history, Latin, library information specialist, marketing, math, physics, political science, psychology, Russian, sociology, Spanish, and other foreign languages. Students seeking Special Education Licensure and the MAT degree must complete the following requirements: Special Education Level I Licensure Requirements: EDPR 7110 or 7111; SPED 7000, 7001 or PSYC 7800; ICL 7105 and 7106; Special Education Level II and III Licensure Requirements: SPED 7211, 7212, 7221, 7241 (6 hours), or PSYC 7808; and ICL 7993 (3 hours). Licensure areas (chose one): Interventionist: RDNG 7553. Comprehensive (K-12): SPED 6000, 6601, 7042. Early Childhood (PreK-1): SPED 6601, 7121, 7141. Students in the Interventionist Licensure program are required to complete a minimum of 116 clock hours of clinical/field experience during the day in special education settings prior to clinical teaching semester. Students in the Comprehensive and Early Childhood licensure programs are required to complete a minimum of 124 clock hours of clinical/field experience during the day in special education settings prior to clinical teaching semester. These field experiences will be incorporated into courses required for licensure. MAT Degree Requirements: In addition to (1) through (4) above: EDPR 7521 and ICL 7993 (Professional Seminar &amp; Teacher Performance Assessment-3 Hours). All students seeking teacher licensure must successfully pass clinical teaching semester or must document successful completion of professional experience in lieu of clinical teaching semester. Students who are employed by a school district on a transitional license issued by the State of Tennessee may have the Level III clinical teaching semester waived if they provide the necessary documentation to verify one year of successful teaching experience and composite score of 3 or higher on the Teacher Evaluation used by their employing district. They must also be successful with the Teacher Performance Assessment (edTPA) to be recommended for licensure. Students in this category should contact the Licensure Coordinator for specific requirements. Students must enroll in the appropriate clinical teaching semester course during clinical teaching semester. Applications for clinical teaching semester must be filed one semester before clinical teaching semester. Application for documenting successful completion of professional experience in lieu of clinical teaching semester must be filed at the beginning of the first month of the semester in which the candidate plans to complete the approved academic program leading to final licensure. Completion of the edTPA must be completed during the semester the candidate on a transitional license plans to apply for their apprentice license. Licensure in Tennessee requires acceptable scores on specified Praxis II Tests of pedagogy and teaching content knowledge. Validation of methods courses is not permitted. 2. Retention To remain in the Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) and the Teacher Education Program (TEP) the student must maintain a graduate grade point average of 3.25. Failure to maintain a 3.25 GPA will result in termination of a candidate's TEP status and will result in academic probation in the MAT program. III. MS Degree Program This program is designed for students who are seeking advanced study and professional development in education focusing on Instruction and Curriculum, Instructional Design and Technology, Reading, Early Childhood Education, or Special Education. Specific program requirements for the listed concentrations are found on the ICL website. An option for students seeking the MS degree with a concentration in Instruction and Curriculum is to complete program requirements that prepare students to apply for a Tennessee Library Information Specialist Endorsement. A. Program Admission Admission to the Graduate School and admission to a specific ICL graduate program are separate procedures. Applicants must submit the following admissions materials before the application will be reviewed: An application to the Graduate School that includes: Official report of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) score (verbal, quantitative, and writing); Official transcripts of undergraduate and graduate study; Applicants whose native language is other than English must score at least 550 (or 210 computer-based) on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). Submit the ICL Department MS Application along with two letters of recommendation on letterhead, preferably one from a college/university professor to the Graduate Analyst in Ball Hall 215 (3798 Walker Ave, Memphis, TN 38152). All application information must be received by February 1 for summer semesters, April 1 for fall semesters, and October 1 for spring semesters. The above criteria represent the minimum acceptable admission requirements. Depending on the applicant's educational background, the graduate committee may require additional coursework to prepare the student for advanced master's level studies. Multiple criteria will be used when considering applicant admission, including, but not limited to, undergraduate and graduate grade point averages, scores of the submitted tests, and letters of recommendation. B. Program Requirements for the MS degree A minimum of 30 graduate semester hours is required. The major will consist of 18-21 semester hours including ICL 7059 Models of Instruction or an equivalent course identified by the concentration and ICL 7992 Master's Project or ICL 7996 Thesis or IDT 7095 Developing Interactive Learning Environments. Students electing to write a thesis must adhere to the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide . EDPR 7521 Introduction to Educational Research Three (3)-six (6) semester hours of electives are required. Courses taken depend on the undergraduate background, previous experiences of the student, and the nature of the major area of concentration. These courses must be approved by the assigned advisor and support the major area of study. IV. MEd Degree Program This program is based on the assumption that all participants will be fully licensed teachers who are currently teaching in classrooms. Furthermore, this program is based on the assumption that all courses will base course content and learning experiences on the student's work as a classroom teacher. All courses will include assignments that teachers will carry out in their own classrooms. A. Program Admission Applicants must submit complete admissions information, including: Application to the Graduate School, including: Official report of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) score (verbal, quantitative, and writing). Official transcripts of undergraduate and graduate study Applicants whose native language is other than English must score at least 550 (or 210 computer-based) on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) Copy of a valid teaching license. Submit two letters of recommendation on letterhead, preferably one from a college/university professor, to the Graduate Analyst in Ball Hall 215 (3798 Walker Ave, Memphis, TN 38152). Multiple criteria will be used when considering applicant admission, including, but not limited to, undergraduate and graduate grade point averages, scores of the submitted tests, and letters of recommendation. Admission to the Graduate School and admission to a specific ICL graduate program are separate procedures. B. Program Requirements for the MEd degree A minimum of 33 graduate semester hours is required. The degree will consist of all courses associated with the Regents Online Master of Education Degree in Advanced Studies in Teaching and Learning (ASTL). Courses in this program of study cannot be used to satisfy required course work in MAT or MS degree programs. For a list of required courses, please contact the Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership or go to . V. EdD Degree Program The primary purposes of the doctoral programs in the Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership are to prepare candidates for positions as teacher educators and researchers in colleges and universities; or, to produce experts in research and development who can lead initiatives to analyze, implement, and evaluate instructional materials and learning environments. A. Program Admission Admission to the Graduate School and admission to a specific ICL graduate program are separate procedures. Applicants must submit the following admissions information: Application to the Graduate School that includes: Official Graduate Record Examination (GRE) score (verbal, quantitative, and writing) Official transcripts of undergraduate and graduate study Applicants whose native language is other than English must score at least 550 (or 210 computer-based) on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). Application to the program in the Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (departmental applications can be obtained via the ICL web site ( ) that includes: Two letters of recommendation from people familiar with the applicant's academic background and aptitude for graduate work, specifying in detail the applicant's capabilities for doctoral study and for future performance and scholarship. At least one letter from a college/university professor is preferred. A written statement of 500 to 1000 words (maximum) indicating the intended area of focus in the doctoral program and the applicant's present interests and career goals. Interviews with two faculty members (one from the student’s area of interest) that must be completed prior to the College deadlines. The doctoral application file must be completed before an interview will be scheduled. Submit the Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership application to the Graduate Analyst in Ball Hall 215 (3798 Walker Ave, Memphis, TN 38152). Each student’s file will be evaluated prior to full admission to the Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership. Only those files that are completed by the admission deadline will be considered. All application information must be received by February 1 for summer semesters, April 1 for fall semesters, and October 1 for the spring semester with the exception of applications for the EdD in the Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) program area, which has a summer admission only with a February 15 deadline. The above criteria represent the minimum acceptable admission requirements. Depending on the applicant’s educational background, the graduate committee may require additional coursework to prepare the student for doctoral studies. B. Program Requirements for the EdD Degree A minimum total of 54 post-master’s hours. The major will consist of 42-45 hours, including the department core requirements: Professional Seminar (ICL 8200), The Nature of Knowledge (ICL 8005), 9-12 hours of dissertation credit (ICL 9000), and 3-6 hours of Research Residency Seminar (ICL 8995). A maximum of 15 hours for ICL 8995 and 9000 will be credited toward the degree. NOTE: Students must adhere to the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide when writing their dissertation. The research requirement for ICL will consist of 9-12 hours which includes EDPR 8541, 8561, and 3 - 6 additional elective research hours in consultation with advisor. The elective research hours should consist of courses directed toward research and/or statistical techniques and procedures necessary for the discipline and the dissertation topic. (This does not apply to IDT whose doctoral students are expected to follow the program of study for the IDT major concentration.) Approved transfer credit or post-master’s courses may be accepted for not more than 12 semester hours. Completion of the college residency requirements. Additional information pertaining to the major and concentration areas may be secured from the Chair or Graduate Coordinator of the Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership. VI. Online Certificate in Instructional Design and Technology A. Admission Students interested in receiving a Certificate in Instructional Computing Applications must be admitted to this graduate certificate program. The courses may be completed as part of a degree program with the advisor’s approval. This certificate program has two tracks: (1) K-12 Educational Technology and (2) Design and Development. Each requires 12 credit hours of online coursework as described below. B. Requirements Track One: K-12 Educational Technology: This track is designed for educators who want to integrate the use of computers in the classroom. The focus of these courses is to develop the technology competencies needed for the development, utilization, and integration of instructional computing technology in the classroom. The following four core courses are required for the Educational Technology Track: IDT 7061/8061 Technlgy Integratn in Classrm IDT 7062/8062 Intro Computer Based Instructn IDT 7063/8063 Seminar Instructnal Computing IDT 7064/8064 School Change and the Internet Track Two: Design and Development: This track is designed for instructional designers and developers who work in non-education related settings such as business, government, military, and health care. The following four courses are required for the Design and Development Track: IDT 7070/8070 Instructional Design Process I IDT 7080/8080 Instructional Design Process II IDT 7063/8063 Seminar Instructnal Computing IDT 7090/8090 Dev Interactve Lrng Envirnmt I More information about the Certificate is located at this web site: C. Graduation Requirements The student must complete all four required courses with a grade of an A or B for each course, for a total of 12 credit hours. In the semester of graduation, the student must submit the Apply to Graduate form to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to Graduate Analyst in Ball Hall 215 (3798 Walker Ave., Memphis, TN 38152) by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. VII. Graduate Certificate in Literacy Leadership and Coaching The Certificate in Literacy Leadership and Coaching will provide teachers the knowledge and experiences to become outstanding literacy leaders in schools and districts. This certificate program recognizes students' ability to design curriculum, supervise teachers, and act as overall literacy leader. The cohort-based program will be taught completely online by reading faculty within the Department of ICL at the University of Memphis. The goal of the certificate program is to 1) offer literacy teachers education beyond the state certified reading endorsement to prepare them to address the leadership needs across the region and beyond, 2) provide an accelerated cohort-driven program of study that will enable students to receive a Certificate in Literacy Leadership and Coaching in a timely and meaningful fashion, and 3) give official recognition of an expertise in literacy leadership to help students qualify for jobs both within and outside the United States. A. Admission Students interested in receiving a Certificate in Literacy Leadership and Coaching must be admitted to this graduate certificate program and either be admitted to the MS degree program in Reading or have an advanced degree in a related field. The courses may be completed as part of a degree program with the advisor’s approval. B. Program Requirements: Completion of 15 semester hours distributed as follows: Required courses: RDNG 7540 Literacy Instruction in the Elementary School RDNG 7541 Literacy Assessment and Intervention RDNG 7544 Adolescent Literacy Instruction RDNG 7560 Literacy Leader and Coach RDNG 7561 Literacy Coach Practicum C. Graduation Requirements: Must earn state reading endorsement (pass praxis and have two years teaching experience) The student must complete all five required courses with an average grade of B (3.0) or higher, for a total of 15 credit hours. In the semester of graduation, the student must submit the Apply to Graduate form to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the Graduate Analyst in Ball Hall 215 (3798 Walker Ave, Memphis, TN 38152) by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. VIII. Graduate Certificate in Urban Education This certificate program offers an advanced program of study in the expansive and distinct historical and contemporary knowledge, scholarship, and practical issues related to instruction and curriculum leadership in an urban educational context that has a diverse population, is geographically bounded, and is unique in its political, economic and cultural history, relationships, and interactions. It complements existing College of Education, Health and Human Sciences programs by offering a structured, focused course of study, consisting of 12 credit hours of core courses. These courses may be completed as part of a degree program with the advisor’s approval, or as additional course work. A. Program Admission Students interested in receiving a Certificate in Urban Education must apply and be admitted to this graduate certificate program and preferably to a College of Education, Health and Human Sciences graduate degree program, such as the master’s or doctoral major in the Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership. Application is through the office of Graduate Admissions. Applicants must also complete an interview with the certificate coordinator. The courses may be completed as part of a degree program with the advisor’s approval. B. Program Requirements The following four core courses are required for the Certificate in Urban Education: ICL 7702-8702 Advanced Topics in Instruction &amp; Curriculum: Urban Education ICL 7701-8701 Advanced Workshop in Instruction &amp; Curriculum: Urban Education ICL 7706 Family &amp; Community Relations for Teachers ICL 8082 Seminar in Urban Education C. Retention Requirements Same as retention policies applicable to Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership graduate degree programs. D. Graduation Requirements The student must complete all four required courses with an average grade of B (3.0) or higher, for a total of 12 credit hours. In the semester of graduation, the student must submit the Apply to Graduate form to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the Graduate Analyst in Ball Hall 215 (3798 Walker Ave., Memphis, TN 38152) by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. IX. Graduate Certificate in Autism Studies The purpose of the Graduate Certificate in Autism Studies is to provide practical educational training to individuals who are presently working within healthcare, adult disability and/or educational settings. It is estimated that over 336,000 young people (ages 3 to 21) are currently being served in federally supported programs for people with autism in our public schools (NCES, 2011) and close to 1.5 million (NAC, 2009) total individuals live with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) nationwide. In the United States, the Center for Disease Control reported (2012) that instances of autism are rising citing a rate of approximately 1:88 births during surveillance year 2008 vs. 1:110 during surveillance year 2006 (CDC, 2012). As the numbers of those diagnosed with ASD rise, the demand for professionally trained, autism expertise within health, educational and adult day service settings can be expected to mirror that trend. Individuals completing this post baccalaureate certificate program will be able to: Provide evidence-based decisions specific to the treatment and education of people with ASD. Design and implement highly specialized evidence based instructional programs for people with ASD. Design and implement common behavior management strategies shown to be effective for people with ASD. A. Program Requirements SPED 7600/8600 Introduction to Autism Spectrum Disorders (3) SPED 7601/8601 Autism Spectrum Disorders: Classroom Management &amp; Designs (3) SPED 7602/8602 Autism Spectrum Disorders: Instructional Methods I (3) SPED 7603/8603 Autism Spectrum Disorders: Instructional Methods II (3) B. Graduation Requirements In order to graduate with the certificate, students must: Complete all four required courses with an average grade of B (3.0) or higher, for a total of 12 credit hours. In the semester of graduation, the student must submit the Apply to Graduate form to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to Graduate Analyst in Ball Hall 215 (3798 Walker Ave., Memphis, TN 38152) by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. X. Graduate Certificate in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) Teacher Leadership The goal of the certificate program in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) Teacher Leadership is to develop the knowledge and skills of secondary mathematics, science, and engineering teachers who are currently teaching in local area schools. The coursework is designed to promote in-depth understanding of current standards and instructional practices with a particular focus on building teacher leaders in STEM education. A. Program Admission: Students interested in receiving a Certificate in STEM Teacher Leadership must be apply to and be accepted to this graduate certificate program. Applicants must hold a current teaching license. The courses may be completed as part of a degree program with the advisor’s approval. B. Program Requirements: A total of twelve (12) credit hours are required to complete this progra m. ICL 7723/8723, Equity in STEM Education, 3 credits ICL 7722/8722, Teaching and Learning in STEM Classrooms, 3 credits ICL 7720/8720, STEM Curriculum Leadership, 3 credits ICL 7721/8721, Seminar in STEM Teacher Development, 3 credits C. Graduation Requirements The student must complete all four required courses with an average grade of B (3.0) or higher, for a total of 12 credit hours. In the semester of graduation, the student must submit the Apply to Graduate form to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to Graduate Analyst in Ball Hall 215 (3798 Walker Ave., Memphis, TN 38152) by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. XI. Graduate Retention Policy It is the student’s responsibility to obtain a copy of the retention policy from the departmental office. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .