#http://www.memphis.edu/sociology/graduate/opportunities.php
Graduate Student Opportunities - Sociology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Sociology About Us People Research Undergraduate Graduate Resources Graduate Resources About the Program Contact the Advisor How to Apply MA Degree Requirements Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Assistantships Opportunities for Support Course Descriptions Graduate Catalog Forms and Links Graduate Student Profiles Student Placements Student Publications Forthcoming 2014 2013 2012 Prior 2012 Student Presentations Student Awards Home Sociology Graduate Graduate Student Opportunities Opportunities Financial Support and Travel Funds The Department of Sociology attempts to provide financial support to as many students as possible by awarding graduate assistantships (click here) to its most qualified students. Graduate assistants gain valuable experience by working with faculty on teaching and/or research projects. The Department provides some travel funds for students who present papers at professional meetings. In addition, students can apply for travel funds through the University of Memphis Graduate Student Association and through the Donovan Travel Enrichment Fund. Teaching and Professional Development/Enrichment Some of our more advanced graduate students have an opportunity to teach their own introductory sociology courses. Students who have 18 hours of coursework and who have taken SOCI 7210 (Theory Seminar) may be considered for a teaching assistantship. We offer a professional development course every semester that covers such topics as publishing, submitting grant proposals, developing good teaching skills, reading papers at professional meetings, preparing resumes and vitas, applying for non-academic jobs, and applying to doctoral programs. The course is required of all graduate assistants, but students who are not on assistantships are welcome to attend. The Department of Sociology sponsors a Research Colloquium Series. Well-known scholars, departmental faculty, and our own graduate students present as part of the Series. The Department encourages students to present their research as part of the Research Colloquium Series and at professional meetings. In recent years, our students have presented at such regional and national associations as the Southern Sociological Society, the Association for the Sociology of Religion, the Pacific Sociological Association, the Southwestern Social Science Association, the Society for the Study of Symbolic Interaction, the First Congress of Qualitative Inquiry, and the Association of Black Sociologists. Click Graduate Student Accomplishments for a list of student publications, presentations, and honors. Support for Thesis and Other Student Research To carry out thesis projects, students may need financial assistance to cover the costs of such things as supplies, printing, and data sets. The Department makes every attempt to provide financial support for these projects. The University of Memphis is a member of the Inter-University Consortium on Political and Social Research (ICPSR). This membership gives students ready access to a wide range of data sets that can be used for thesis and independent research projects. Students have access to two large computer labs and a wide array of current software programs. Student Paper Competition Every year we have a graduate student paper competition. The winner receives $200. Graduate Resources About the Program Contact the Advisor How to Apply MA Degree Requirements Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Assistantships Opportunities for Support Course Descriptions Graduate Catalog Forms and Links Graduate Student Profiles Student Placements Student Publications Forthcoming 2014 2013 2012 Prior 2012 Student Presentations Student Awards Community Out of Chaos "portray the idea of chaos to community in Memphis." Online B.A. Want to pursue your college degree and manage your busy lifestyle? Experience online classes at the UofM. Contact Us Main Office Contacts and Location Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .