#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/pdfs/hiad-evaluation-criteria.pdf
HIAD Program Evaluation Criteria for the HIAD Doctoral Comprehensive Exams Per Doctoral Comprehensive Exams Policy ( - comprehensive - exams.pdf ), the HIAD Doctoral Comprehensive Examinations are developed and administrated based on the current University of Memphis Graduate Catalogue and the College of Education, Health and H uman Science's Graduate Handbook ( - student - handbook.pdf ). The faculty of the Department of Leadership at the University o f Memphis adopted evaluation criteria for the HIAD Doctoral Comprehensive Exams on August 29, 2013 . The following is an overview of evaluation criteria that HIAD faculty who grade the exams will follow, and it serves as an assessment rubric for the HIAD doctoral comprehensive exams. Overview of Evaluation Criteria 1. Basic Competencies: a. The HIAD doctoral students must demonstrate the following areas of writing ability : i. Spelling and Grammar . ii. Organization . iii. Readability . b. The HIAD doctoral students must be able to demonstrate: i. Thorough understanding of theories and concepts ii. Ability to analyze, synthesize, and evaluate material . iii. Adequate and appropriate use of references for research . iv. Creative analysis and answer s to exam question s. 2. Document Format a. The HIAD doct oral students need to write their answers using Microsoft Word , format their documents with one - inch margins , and save them in .doc or .docx file format s . b. The HIAD doctoral students must style their comprehensive exams based on the guidelines of the Publication Manual of the American Psychological Association , 6 th e d . c. The HIAD doctoral students must answer one required question and two other questions of their choice. A total of three HIAD Doctoral Comprehensive Exams questions must be answered. See - comprehensive - exams.pdf f or more information about what kind of content will be on the HIAD Doctoral Comprehensive Exams. d. Each course question should be saved separately (e.g., Misawa, M. LEAD 8003.docx). e. On the first page of each comprehensive question, the HIAD doctoral students will be required to state the full comprehensive e xamination question. Then, immediately after that, they are required to begin writing their responses. f. Students are required to answer all parts of the required exam questions and chosen course questions. The responses for each question must be 15 pages lo ng, excluding references. If a response is less than or more than the required length, then the HIAD faculty should determine that the student is unable to adequately respond to the comprehensive exam question. g. All of the references to scholarly work shoul d be from peer - reviewed journals or published academic books used in HIAD courses or outside HIAD courses. However, it is highly desirable for students to utilize publications from the HIAD courses they took. The HIAD doctoral students are required to deve lop a references section at the end of each exam question. They must include more than 15 scholarly references (peer - reviewed journal articles, academic books, and academic book chapters) per question. h. The HIAD doctoral students must submit all three sepa rate HIAD Comprehensive Exam ination responses to Professor Mitsunori Misawa at mmisawa@memphis.edu by 11:59 p.m. (CDT or CST) on the due date. Late submissions will not be accepted. i. Written answers on the due date are final. 3. Academic Integrity It is not acceptable to take ideas or words of another person and pass them off as your own. All HIAD doctoral students are responsible for knowing the rules governing academic conduct. Any evidence of willful academic misco nduct such as plagiarism and cheating must be referred to the Office of Student Conduct : Any documented cases of plagiarism in the HIAD Doctoral Comprehensive Exams can and will result in failing the comprehensive examinations , and may result in other more serious sanctions from the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences at the University of Memphis. Assessment Rubric for the HIAD Doctoral Comprehensive Exams Criteria Exceeds Expectation (3) Meets Expectations (2) F ails to Meet Expectations (1) Completeness and Breadth Response show s a high level of knowledge and cover s the question in a comprehensive manner. Response reveal s a satisfactory breadth of knowledge o n the topic. Response is too brief and/or reveal s a limited level of knowledge o n the topic. Accuracy and Depth Response reveal s ability to analyze and synthesize information and demonstrate s a deep understanding of the topic. Response show s depth of knowledge o n the topic. Response is superficial and/o r inaccurate. Use of Evidence and Data Response is based on appropriate evidence and data or scholarly literature, include s a critical analysis of evidence, and provide s appropriate references. Response include s appropriate evidence and scholarly work. Su fficient evidence and/ or scholarly sources are not present. Logic and Organization Response is well written and well organized, is logical and easy to follow, a nd cover s all elements asked by the question. Response is adequately organized and logical and can be followed with som e effort. In addition, response include s all required elements. Response is poorly organized and difficult to follow . This rubric is based on the handout, Preparing for SACS Standard 3.3.1.1. , that was distributed at the Department of Leadership Faculty Meeting on April 10, 2013 at the University of Memphis . Policy adopted 08/29/2013