#http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/graduate/pdfs/gscctravelfunds_2015.pdf
GSCC TRAVEL FUNDS APPLICATION GUIDELINES The chair of the Department of Psychology sets the budget for the travel awards annually. This year (2015-2016), Dr. Andrasik has pledged a generous $30,000 for student travel. To receive consideration for conferences during fall, spring, or summer semesters, please submit an application no later than the following dates: Semester of travel Deadline to apply for funding Fall (September - December) September 15 Spring (January - April) February 1 Summer (May - August) May 1 The following eligibility criteria apply: You must be enrolled as a full-time student in one of the Department of Psychology's graduate programs OR currently be on a pre-doctoral placemen t or internship. o If on a pre-doctoral placement or internship the conference program material must state the University of Memphis as your affiliation You must provide documentation that you have applied for additional funding for each conference application (i.e., photo copy of that application). Other funding sources include, but are not limited to: o College of Arts and Sciences ( cas/travel-enrichment- fund.htm ) o Student Government Association ( ) o Lab/Professor funding o External Sites (e.g., IISSO, APA, Conference, APAGS) You must complete the survey sent out by the GSCC treasurer that inquires about your travel plans over the academic year. This help s us immensely in knowing how to allocate the funds. Students who are not presenting are welcome to apply, and we are able to provide funding to most students who are not presenting. Submit To apply for GSCC travel funds, please print a copy of this application, fill it out, and return this form to the GSCC mailbox, in the Psychol ogy Department Mail Room (PYS 203). Students who are awarded travel funds will be no tified in writing by the GSCC within two weeks of that semester's application deadline. You must complete a travel authorization form with Danny Tally (PSY 224) prior to travel. All funds are distributed retrospectively (i.e., funds will be dispersed after the date of travel) and official conference registration and receipts for any travel expenses incurred must be submitted in order to receive reimbursement. Tips If you are awarded SGA funds, they have a 10 day post-travel deadline for reimbursement. You are advised to submit information to them first. If you are sharing travel costs with other students (e.g., hotel cost, flights) and only have one official receipt, both students must complete and sign a memo (see attached) stating who paid initially and amount paid between students. You will also need a photo copy of the check showing this transaction and bank statement showing the transaction.