#http://act.memphis.edu/resources.php
Mid South Access Center for Technology ACT :: Resources :: University of Memphis Skip to Navigation. | Skip to Main Content. | Skip to Search Form. Mid-South ACT Home About ACT VATR Lab Services Information News &amp; Newsletters Contact Us Donations A - Z U of M Quick Links ------------------ Outlook Bursar's Office Events Calendar Jobs eCourseware (UM) eLearn (RODP) Bookstore Ask TOM Employee Self Service Campus Map Library FedEx Institute Transcripts UMdrive iAM Police Services Contact Us Mid-South ACT Information Accessibility Resources Resources Memphis Resources Access Industries, Inc Adaptive Equipment, Vehicle Adaptations Alliance for the Blind and Visually Impaired Allied Medical Barbara K. Lipman Early Childhood School and Research Institute Boling Center for Developmental Disabilities (BCDD) Clovernook Center for the Blind and Visually Impaired Learning Disabilities Association (Memphis Area) Handicap Unlimited- (Medical Equipment Supplier) Mata Plus Memphis City School System Memphis Area Career Center Memphis Center for Independent Living (MCIL) Memphis Goodwill Industries, Inc MidSouth Arc Multiple Sclerosis Society, Mid-South Chapter Partners Accessing Life (PALs) Senior Services (Memphis) Shelby County School System Shelby Residential &amp; Vocational Services ( SRVS) Special Ed Action Network (Tennessee) Special Olympics Tennessee STAR Center (West Tennessee Special Technology Access Resource Center) Tennessee ADAPT Tennessee Division of Vocational Rehabilitation Services Tennessee Library for the Blind and Physically Handicapped Tennessee Services for the Blind and Visually Impaired Tennessee Technology Access Project (TTAP) The Bodine School The University of Memphis -Disability Resources for Students The West Tennessee R.I.S.E. Project UCP of Memphis (Memphis Works) UT Rehabilitation Engineering Program AT Centers Listing of ATA Centers States Funded Under the Assistive Technology Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-394). TTAP -Tennessee Technology Access Project East Tennessee Technology Access Center, Inc. Mid-South Access Center for Technology Signal Center's Assistive Technology Center Technology Access Center of Middle Tennessee West Tennessee Special Technology Access Resource Center(STAR) National Resouces AAC-RERC (Research Center on Communication Enhancement) Conducts research, sponsors/conducts conferences, develops technology, provides technical assistance, conducts training seminars, facilitates technology transfer, and evaluates technology. Accommodations This is an in depth guide for people who want to know about accommodations for students, including educators, administrators, other school personnel, and parents. Adaptive Technology Resource Center/University of Toronto Includes an extensive listing of online resources of assistive technology topics. Alliance for Technology Access (ATA) The Alliance for Technology Access (ATA) is a network of community-based Resource Centers , Developers, Vendors and Associates dedicated to providing information and support services to children and adults with disabilities, and increasing their use of standard, assistive, and information technologies. American Printing House for the Blind Apple's Disability Online Resources: Mac Access Passport Mac Access Passport database contains descriptions of products that help people with disability use a Macintosh computer. It includes information on more than 100 software and hardware tools. Assistive Technology Training Online Project - University of Buffalo List of resources AT Basics- The AT Basic Modules provide general assistive technology information on a variety of related uses for elementary students with disabilities. AT Demonstration Videos by NATRI (National Assistive Technology Research Institute) AT Laws Explains the laws and how they apply. Attention Deficit Information Network, Inc Browsealoud A website speech enabling service which makes web content accessible to anyone with reading difficulties. Center for Applied Special Technology (CAST) CODI (Cornucopia of Disability Information) Assistive Technology Lots of information. Developmental Disabilities Resource Center - Links Florida Assistive Technology Education Network (ATEN) Homepage has tutorials that can be downloaded on a variety of assistive technology devices. Georgia Institute of Technology, Center for Assistive Technology and Environmental Access (CATEA) Handbook for Assistive Technology Funding LD OnLine: Learning Disabilities Resources Large List of Resources from ETTAC The National Dissemination Center for Children with Disabilities PDF Aloud Recordings for the Blind and Dyslexic The nation's educational library for those with print disabilities. RESNA (Rehabilitation Engineering and Assistive Technology Society of North America) Promotes research, development, education, advocacy and provision of technology. RIATT (Research Institute for Assistive and Training Technologies) Provides assistive technology instruction to professionals through either distance (on-line) education or face-to-face (on-site) instruction. Tech Connections One-stop resource for information on Assistive Technology (AT) designed to accommodate people with disabilities in the workplace and in everyday life activities. Quick reference guides, case studies, Training activities and much more. Technology for Special Populations Technology options designed to meet the needs of disability specific groups of students. Last Updated: 5/19/15