#http://www.memphis.edu/uofmonline/Programs/grad_autism.php
Autisim Certificate Program - UofM Online - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UofM Online Programs Orientation Online Readiness Resources About AtoZ List Programs Undergraduate Graduate Home UofM Online Programs Autisim Certificate Program Autism Certificate Program The University of Memphis is excited to offer an online Autism Certificate Program beginning summer 2014. The Autism Certificate Program is designed to equip parents, teachers, and professionals with the tools necessary to successfully work with children with autism and deal with the unique challenges and rewards associated with the disorder. This four course certificate can be completed over one summer (two first term classes; two second term classes) and is perfect for anyone wanting to learn a practical approach to every day concerns related to a diagnosis of Autism. The program will provide students with the opportunity to expand their knowledge base related to working with individuals and families affected by Autism. The University of Memphis is a major metropolitan university established in 1912. Accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS), the university has offered online degrees since 1995. Our faculty are committed to offering the most up to date information that is both valuable and enlightening. Partnerships with local organizations, schools, and early childhood agencies ensures the content meets the needs of the larger community. The online format provides accessibility and flexibility while delivering a rigorous learning experience over the internet at a reasonable cost. As a University of Memphis online student, you will have access to an array of online services including admissions, tutoring, library services and more. Classes are 100% web-based using the University of Memphis’ eCourseware course management system. PROGRAM HIGHLIGHTS * Completely 100% online program * All courses can be completed in one summer semester * Practical approach to everyday concerns * Partnered with local organizations and schools to correspond with school needs * Courses designed to meet teacher/professional needs Program Sequence 2014 Term Offered SPED 7600: Introduction to Autism Spectrum Disorders 1st half of Summer Term SPED 7601: Class Mgmt and Design 1st half of Summer Term SPED 7602: Instructional Methods I 2nd half of Summer Term SPED 7603: Instructional Methods II 2nd half of Summer Term How to enroll: Complete our online application choosing Autism Studies certificate as the planned course of study. Students who wish to continue on to a Masters of Science in Special Education may apply these certificate courses to their degree. The University of Memphis also offers a Masters of Science with a concentration in special education/applied behavior analysis for those seeking to become a board certified behavior analyst (BCBA). Researchers and clinicians (e.g., U.S. Surgeon General, NY Dept. of Health) recognize ABA as the treatment of choice for behavior problems and learning difficulties associated with autism. For further information, please complete the form below. First Name Last Name Email address Phone number Mailing address City State Zip Highest degree attained Comments or questions Where did you hear about us? Programs Undergraduate Graduate UofM Online News University of Memphis Online Master's Program is Ranked Among the Best in Nation by ACO. UofM Online Undergraduate Programs Click to View the Fully Online Undergraduate Degree Programs offered at the University of Memphis UofM Online Graduate Programs Click to View the Fully Online Graduate Degree Programs offered at the University of Memphis Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .