#http://bf.memphis.edu/bfguide/10119.htm
BF10119 - Purchasing Card - The University of Memphis The University of Memphis Purchasing Card BFGuide Issued:&nbsp Apr-16-2013 Responsible Official:&nbsp Assistant Vice President, Business Services Responsible Office:&nbsp Procurement Services Purpose &nbsp To provide users with information related to utilizing the University's Purchasing Card (P-Card) Program to make small dollar purchases for University use. Contents Definitions Agency Purchasing Card Cardholder Card Issuer Merchant Department Head Card Administrator Card Reviewer Procurement Specialist Merchant Category Code (MCC) iTracer Card Management System (CMS) Procedures General Policies and Procedures Applying for a Purchasing Card Using the Purchasing Card Resolving Purchasing Card Issues Cardholder's Responsibilities Card Administrator's Responsibilities Card Reviewer's Responsibilities Procurement Specialist's Responsibilities Amazon Tax Exemption Federal Funding Purchases Record Retention Regions Bank Internet Purchasing Card Services Prohibited/Unauthorized Purchasing Card Use Blocked Merchant Category Code (MCC) Sanctions for Fraud and Misuse of Purchasing Card Related Forms Purchasing Cardholder Enrollment Form Regions Purchasing Card Transaction Dispute Form Purchasing Cardholder Change Form Agreement to Accept Visa Purchasing Card Claim for Traveling Expense Form Request for Meal Reimbursement Form Links University's Procurement Services Policy University's Contracts and Signatory Policy University's Specialized Purchasing Guideline Regions iTracer Regions Card Management System TBR Purchasing Policy and Procedures 4:02:10:00 University's Policy UM1311: Purchase of Meals Code of Federal Regulations Contacts Procurement and Contract Services Staff Definitions Agency The University of Memphis is the agency in the relationship between Regions Bank and the University for P-Card services. Purchasing Card The Purchasing Card (P-Card) is a VISA credit card issued by Regions Bank that works similarly to a personal credit card, except the charges are billed directly to the University. The P-Card contains the cardholder's name and &quot;The University of Memphis.&quot; The University's tax exempt number is embossed on the face of the card. Cardholder An employee of the University who is approved by his/her department head to use the P-Card to execute purchase transactions on behalf of the University. Cardholders are expected to make sound business decisions in the best interest of the University, perform their duties competently, and comply with this guideline and related policies and procedures. Card Issuer Regions Bank is the card issuer in the relationship between the University of Memphis and the bank and is primarily responsible for issuing Visa purchasing cards to University-approved employees, billing the University for all purchases made on the cards, and collecting payment from the University on behalf of the merchants. Merchant A retailer, or any other person, firm or corporation that, according to a Merchant Agreement, agrees to accept credit cards, debit cards, or both, when properly presented. Department Head University official who must approve employee's request for a P-Card, assign a card administrator and card reviewer, designate a default account number for purchases on the P-Card, and submit application for a P-Card to the Procurement Specialist. The department head approval delegates transaction authority to the cardholder. Therefore, the department head is expected to make reasonable efforts to select appropriate employees as cardholders and ensure that these employees use the card in a proper manner and in compliance with University policies. Report any questionable purchases to the Procurement Specialist. Report actual fraud to University Internal Audit. The department head agrees to notify Procurement and Contract Services within seven (7) business days of the termination or transfer of the cardholder, card reviewer and/or card administrator and to abide by other policies and guidelines pertaining to the University P-Card. If the department head is the cardholder; then, the next level of authority must notify Procurement and Contract Services in accordance with the previous sentence. Card Administrator An employee within each department/college who is approved by his/her department head to be responsible for verifying that all charges against the cardholder's account are substantiated by supporting documentation, reallocation of charges are made to department FOAP/account codes, and the documentation is retained within the department for audit purposes. If possible, the card administrator should be an employee other than the cardholder and is normally an administrative associate or office coordinator. Depending on the size of the department and with department head approval, the cardholder and card administrator may be the same person. Card Reviewer An employee within each department/college who is in a position of authority and can objectively question any and all cardholder purchases and be actively involved in the business management aspect of the department. The card reviewer is responsible for the final independent review and approval of P-Card statements and receipts; reviewing, signing, and dating the cardholder's monthly statements; and forwarding the statement and supporting documentation to the card administrator to retain for audit purposes. Typically, this position is a business manager or the next level of authority to the cardholder. A cardholder may have more than one card reviewer. If a card reviewer or administrator is also the cardholder, then the cardholder cannot be his or her own card reviewer. The next level of authority must provide independent review, signature, and date on the cardholder's monthly statements. Procurement Specialist The University's official who coordinates the Purchasing Card Program for the University and acts as the University's intermediary in correspondence with the card issuer. Merchant Category Code (MCC) A numeric code designating a grouping of one or more individual suppliers/merchants who sell similar merchandise. It is an industry-provided code that categorizes all suppliers based on the goods and services sold. iTracer A web-based software program that provides users access to transaction information via the Internet to reallocate funds to a different account, if needed. iTracer offers the following benefits: allows expense information to be easily shared with another person or department, offers standard and ad-hoc transaction and analytical data reports, identifies cost savings, furnishes preferred supplier spending, provides daily reporting and data analysis via the Internet, affords opportunity to view and analyze daily cardholder use, and interfaces with the general ledger in a variety of formats. Card Management System (CMS) A web-based software program that provides users viewing capability to transaction information via the Internet. Card Management System offers the following features: provides monthly statements from Regions.com for timely reconciliation of expenses, makes statements available to cardholders one day following the close of monthly billing cycle, and permits the agency to access the entire statement of account. Procedures General Policies and Procedures Procurement and Contract Services is responsible for managing the purchasing card program. For assistance, contact the Procurement Specialist at 678-3673. Card administrators and card reviewers are responsible for managing their cardholder accounts. Cardholders are responsible for assuring accuracy of credit card charges, maintaining receipt documentation, and keeping the P-Card and account number in a secure location at all times. P-Cards are only issued to University employees, in the employee's name. P-Cards are not transferable between individual employees. Department cards are prohibited. All purchases made with the P-Card must be for official University business in accordance with University procedures and must NEVER be used for personal purchases. Total value of any one charge may not exceed $4,999, including shipping and handling. The P-Card cannot be used if the purchase requires a signed contract or agreement. See University's Contract and Signatory Authority Policy . Regions Bank transmits purchasing card statements to cardholders through a secure Internet site. Charges are accumulated monthly and charged to &quot;default&quot; FOAP (Fund, Organization, Account, Program) codes and data is transmitted to the Banner Financial System. Cardholders, card administrators, and card reviewers must follow University &quot;Record Retention&quot; procedures. See Record Retention section of this guide. If the P-Card is lost, stolen, or damaged, cardholder must notify Regions' Bank immediately at 1-888-934-1087. Emergency transactions over $4,999 may NOT be handled with the P-Card. Contact Procurement Services for assistance. Credits - The merchant should issue a credit to a cardholder's P-Card account for any item accepted for return. This credit will appear on a subsequent purchasing card statement. Cardholders cannot accept cash in lieu of a credit to the P-Card account. Merchant participation - If a merchant/retailer will not accept the P-Card, the Procurement Specialist will assist in recruiting the merchant to take steps to begin acceptance of the card. All documentation pertaining to P-Card transactions shall be available for review by Procurement and Contract Services, Internal Audit, State/Federal Audit, and Legal Counsel. The University prohibits the use of the P-Card with out-of-country vendors. A Cardholder who makes an unauthorized purchase with the P-Card or uses the card in an inappropriate manner will be subject to disciplinary action including possible termination of employment at the University and criminal prosecution. Applying for a Purchasing Card Eligibility - Any full time employee of the University can apply for a P-Card upon the approval of his or her department head or responsible departmental official. Purchasing Card Enrollment - Eligible employees may apply for a P-Card by completing the Purchasing Cardholder Enrollment Form . The completed form must be approved by the official responsible for the default account listed on the enrollment form and forwarded to the Procurement Specialist in Procurement and Contract Services for further action. Training Program for Card Utilization - All prospective cardholders must attend a training session and sign an Agreement to Accept the Visa Purchasing Card Form prior to receiving a P-Card. The Procurement Specialist will conduct the training on cardholder responsibilities such as activating the card, spending limitations, prohibited charges, safeguarding the card, and record retention. Using the Purchasing Card Activating the Purchasing Card - The cardholder should call the number on the sticker of the P-Card to activate the card. The automated line will prompt the cardholder for the necessary information. Renewing the Purchasing Card - The P-Card will automatically be renewed before the expiration date. The Procurement Specialist will notify the cardholder by e-mail upon arrival of the new card. When picking up the new card, the cardholder will attest by signature that University purchasing policies will continue to be followed. If the cardholder would like to review policies related to the use of the P-Card, the cardholder will make arrangements with the Procurement Specialist. The cardholder MUST destroy the old card and call to activate the new one. Canceling the Purchasing Card - Notify the Procurement Specialist who will then contact the bank for cancelation. Purchasing Card Limitations - The P-Card has three spending limits determined by the University of Memphis and each department. The University decides the individual transaction limit (currently $4,999) and the responsible departmental official decides the monthly and daily dollar limits. The monthly cycle ends on the last business day of the month. The monthly billing cycle resumes the following day. Purchasing Card Restrictions - The University prohibits the purchase of alcoholic beverages; membership dues; travel-related expenses (includes food, lodging, transportation, etc.); cash advances; gift cards; items for personal use; items for non-University purposes; personal, professional, consulting, and other services that would require a signed contract; and any other items prohibited according to University and individual departmental policies. See Prohibited/Unauthorized Purchasing Card Use and Blocked Merchant Category Codes sections of this guide. The University prohibits the use of the P-Card with out-of-country vendors. Split Purchases/Invoices - Cardholders may not split single transactions in excess of $4,999 into smaller transactions, unless items are purchased under an existing University-approved contract. Cardholders may not make multiple purchases or request multiple invoices for single purchases of like items in order to bypass standard procurement procedures, unless items are purchased under an existing University-approved contract. For more information about what constitutes a split purchase and whether items should be bid, contact the Procurement Specialist. Making a Purchase Using the Purchasing Card - Present the P-Card and inform the merchant that the card is a University of Memphis card (logo and name are embossed on the face of the card) and exempt from paying sales tax. The cardholder is responsible for obtaining itemized receipts for all purchases. Each department is solely responsible for maintaining receipts or other supporting documentation for audit purposes. Using the Purchasing Card for Local and Out-of-Town Conference/Seminar Registration Fees, When No Other Travel-Related Expenses, e.g., Lodging, Transportation, Membership Dues, etc. are Associated with the Registration Fee - 1) a travel purchase order must be created and approved before a University P-Card is used to pay registration fees for conferences/seminars, 2) The travel purchase order must be referenced on the registration receipt, 3) a copy of the detailed/itemized registration receipt must be stored with the purchasing card statement, 4) the registration must be captured on the Claim for Traveling Expense Form as a pre-paid item and accompanied by a detailed/itemized copy of the receipt, and 5) a copy of the completed and approved Claim for Traveling Expense Form must be stored with the corresponding monthly purchasing card statement showing the conference charge. Sales Tax Exemption - Always request tax exemption when making a purchase on the P-Card. The University's tax exempt number is embossed on the face of the card. Exception: Some states outside of Tennessee will not accept a TN sales tax exemption. Amazon. com Purchases - For Amazon.com purchases, obtain a copy of the University's tax exemption certificate from Accounting or Procurement, log on to Amazon.com and then complete a one-time upload of this form before making any purchases. For step-by-step instructions, see the Amazon Tax Exemption section of this guide. Exception: Some states outside of Tennessee will not accept a TN sales tax exemption. Phone and Internet Orders - The P-Card may be used to place orders over the phone or on the Internet. On phone orders, the cardholder should request a copy of the itemized invoice by facsimile/email to ensure prompt documentation of charges to be reconciled. On Internet orders, the cardholder should print a copy of the invoice or confirmation when the order is placed. Cardholders should direct the merchant to include the following information on the shipping label and packing slip: 1) cardholder name and phone number, 2) department name, and 3) complete campus delivery address. Purchasing Card Inactivity - To protect system integrity, the system will lock user IDs that are inactive after sixty (60) days from the setup date, last use date, or date the application is first installed (as a grace period). The user has 30 days from the lock date to reactivate the user ID. Contact the Procurement Specialist at extension 3673, to reactivate a user ID. The system will delete user IDs not accessed within ninety (90) days from the setup date, last use date, or date the application is first installed. Contact the Procurement Specialist if your card is deleted and it should be reinstated. Resolving Purchasing Card Issues Disputes of Purchasing Card Charges - If the cardholder disputes a charge, the cardholder must first try to resolve the dispute directly with the merchant. The nature of the dispute and the final resolution must be documented. This documentation must be retained with the cardholder's monthly statement on which the disputed charge appears. If the dispute cannot be resolved directly with the merchant, the cardholder must file a Regions Purchasing Card Transaction Dispute Form and return it to Regions Bank within sixty (60) days of the date of the periodic billing statement upon which the transaction alleged to be in error or dispute first appeared. Lost/Stolen Purchasing Cards - If a P-Card is lost, stolen or compromised in any way, the cardholder should notify Regions Treasury Management Client Services Bank immediately at 1-888-934-1087 for 24-hour assistance. Cardholders must also notify the Procurement Specialist (3673) , within 24 hours after reporting the incident to the bank. After the above notification procedures have been completed, the Procurement Specialist will issue a new P-Card to the cardholder. A P-Card that is found after it has been reported lost or stolen must be destroyed. Erroneous Declines - There may be certain situations when a merchant receives a decline message when processing a cardholder's P-Card transaction. If you do not know the reason for the decline, contact Regions Bank Customer Service at 1-888-934-1087 for an explanation. If the decline was in error, the cardholder should immediately contact the Procurement Specialist for assistance. If the purchase is being made outside of normal University business hours, the employee must find an alternate payment method or terminate the purchase and contact the Procurement Specialist during normal University hours. The following reasons may decline a card: exceeding the monthly credit limit; exceeding the single transaction limit; or, the Merchant Category Code (MCC) is blocked. Cardholder's Responsibilities Cardholders have the following responsibilities in P-Card usage and appropriate record keeping procedures: Purchases must be made in accordance with this guideline, University Purchasing Policy and TBR Purchasing Policy and Procedures 4:02:10:00 Utilizes sound business decisions in making small-dollar purchases for University use and for checking all transactions against supporting documentation to verify accuracy and propriety Ensures the vendor does not charge sales tax (Tax exempt number is printed on the face of the P-Card). Exception: Some states outside of Tennessee will not accept a TN sales tax exemption. Warrants that P-Card will not be used to make split purchases. Safeguards the P-Card and associated account number in a secure location at all times Certifies that no one else will be allowed to use his or her P-Card and account number Obtains and keeps receipts and detailed information for each card transaction (Receipts are critical to the success and integrity of the P-Card Program) Resolves all incorrect charges and product returns with the vendor as quickly as possible (If a particular charge or credit does not appear on the statement, it should be checked against future online transactions on the statement. If the charge or credit does not appear within sixty (60) days after the original charge was made, notify the Procurement Specialist for guidance) Prints and reviews the monthly statements for accuracy from the Card Management System: Attaches the receipts and supporting documentation to each monthly statement and forwards to the card administrator within two (2) calendar days from date of purchase If the cardholder is also the card administrator, forward statement and receipts to the card reviewer for final independent review and approval (Each monthly statement shall have the reviewer's final approval whether purchases were or were not made) Under very limited circumstances, some cardholders may be granted an exception by the Controller or AVP of Finance to purchase food items with the P-Card strictly for business purposes. If such approval is granted, a written copy of the approved justification must be forwarded to the Procurement Specialist. Cardholders must adhere to Policy UM1311: Purchase of Meals and submit a Request for Meal Reimbursement form, agenda, and list of attendees to the Accounting Office each time the card is used to purchase food items. Maintain a copy of the approved form and supporting documentation in your P-Card folder for audit review. Purchases of $250 or more per event must be purchased through the University's food service vendor. Lost or stolen P-Cards: Immediately report a lost or stolen card to Regions Bank at 1-888-934-1087 and then report the incident to your card administrator, card reviewer, and Procurement Specialist Upon termination of employment with the University, return your P-Card to your card administrator or card reviewer, who will immediately destroy the card and notify the Procurement Specialist within seven (7) business days. See Card Administrator's and Card Reviewer's Responsibilities for specific details. Card Administrator's Responsibilities Card administrators have the following responsibilities related to the cardholder's account and supporting documentation: Obtains the cardholder's monthly statement from iTracer and matches the cardholder's receipts and supporting documentation to each monthly statement Verifies that all charges against the cardholder's account are substantiated by supporting documentation Supporting documentation (sales receipt, original invoice, credit receipt, etc.) should indicate the relevant details for each item purchased, including quantities, amounts, a description of what was purchased, the total charge amount, and the vendor's name and address Reviews each transaction using iTracer and makes any necessary changes such as reallocation of charges to departmental FOAP/account codes (On-line allocation adjustments must be made within two (2) business days after the last business day of the preceding month) Retains cardholder's monthly statements and supporting documentation for audit purposes Records must be retained for three (3) years after the fiscal year-end. Receipts for purchases paid from federal funds are to be maintained for grant specified years. Questions about record retention for grant and contract purchases should be referred to Grants Accounting. Forwards the monthly statement and supporting documentation to the card reviewer for final independent review and approval Canceling cards: In the event a cardholder leaves the University, transfers to another department or no longer wishes to use a P-Card, the card administrator or card reviewer is responsible for immediately collecting and destroying the card. The card administrator or card reviewer must provide a memo or email to the University Procurement Specialist within seven (7) business days reporting that the card was destroyed and an explanation of why the card should be canceled. The Procurement Specialist will notify the bank/card issuer of the cancellation. Other P-Card changes: For other P-Card changes, e.g., transaction limits, card administrator, card reviewer, etc., complete the Purchasing Cardholder Change form and forward it to the Procurement Specialist. If possible, the card administrator should be an employee other than the cardholder and is normally an administrative associate or office coordinator. Depending on the size of the department and with department head approval, the cardholder and card administrator may be the same person. If a card administrator is also the cardholder, then the cardholder cannot be his or her own card reviewer. The next level of authority must provide independent review, signature, and date on the cardholder's monthly statements. Card Reviewer's Responsibilities Card reviewers have the following responsibilities related to the cardholder's account and supporting documentation: Provides final independent review and approval of his or her cardholder's P-Card monthly statements and receipts Reviews, signs, and dates the cardholder's monthly statements (receipts and supporting documentation must be attached) Monitors P-Card transactions each month to ensure that purchases comply with this guideline, policies, and procedures Reports any questionable purchases to the attention of the department head. Reports actual or suspected fraud to University Internal Audit Must be in a position of authority and can objectively question any and all cardholder purchases and be actively involved in the business management aspect of the department If a card reviewer is also a cardholder, then the cardholder cannot be his or her own card reviewer. The next level of authority must provide independent review, signature, and date on the cardholder's monthly statements. Each monthly statement shall have the card reviewer's final approval whether purchases were or were not made. Returns the completed statements and supporting documents to the card administrator for safe-keeping and audit Canceling cards: In the event a cardholder leaves the University, transfers to another department or no longer wishes to use a P-Card, the card reviewer or card administrator is responsible for immediately collecting and destroying the card. The card reviewer or card administrator must provide a memo or email to the University Procurement Specialist within seven (7) business days reporting that the card was destroyed and an explanation of why the card should be canceled. The Procurement Specialist will notify the bank/card issuer of the cancellation. Other P-Card changes. For other P-Card changes, e.g., transaction limits, card administrator, card reviewer, etc., complete the Purchasing Cardholder Change form and forward it to the Procurement Specialist. Procurement Specialist's Responsibilities The Procurement Specialist has the following responsibilities related to the administrative and managerial functions of the University Purchasing Card Program: Reviews and approves completed P-Card Enrollment forms Distributes P-Cards to cardholders and obtains cardholder's signature/certification that this guideline, policies and procedures will be followed and that P-Cards were picked up Stores new P-Cards in a secure location until picked up by the cardholder Provides training sessions to cardholders, card administrators, and card reviewers related to compliance with this guideline, University Purchasing Policy and TBR Purchasing Policies and Procedures Maintains P-Card database, including current cardholders, card administrators, and card reviewers Keeps Internal Audit informed of changes to the P-Card database Administers the P-Card Program through the use of Regions' Internet purchasing card software services: iTracer and Card Management System . Acts as liaison between the University and the Regions Bank Reconciles monthly P-Card account statements Conducts periodic review and monitoring of P-Card use, non-use, and appropriateness of charges related to compliance with this guideline, University Purchasing Policy and TBR Purchasing Policies and Procedures Annually reviews cardholder&rsquo;s credit limits against previous year&rsquo;s spend and if purchases are substantially below credit limits, communicate the results with the cardholder to consider lower credit limits Annually monitor cards with little or zero usage and communicate the results with the cardholder to consider canceling the P-Card If potential questionable transactions are identified through Bank&rsquo;s software tracking system, Bank blocks the card from further use and notifies the Procurement Specialist, who will investigate and determine if the card should be reinstated or canceled If the Procurement Specialist suspects a cardholder has made an inappropriate charge or used the card to make split purchases in order to bypass standard purchasing procedures, the Procurement Specialist will contact and advise the card reviewer to discuss said charge or charges with the cardholder. The card reviewer will then inform the Procurement Specialist of violations, if any. Internal Audit will conduct periodic audits of P-Card use and compliance with this guideline and related policies Canceling Cards: In addition to receiving written notification from the cardholder, card administrator, card reviewer, or department head related to canceling or terminating a cardholder's P-Card, the Procurement Specialist receives notice via Human Resources when an employee submits a Separation and Clearance Form, as well as weekly notice of employee terminations and position changes. The Procurement Specialist will expedite the P-Card cancellation process with the bank/card issuer to prevent any purchases after the employee leaves or changes positions. The Procurement Specialist, upon consultation with the Director of Procurement and Contract Services, is responsible for terminating a P-Card if a cardholder: 1) transfers to another University position, 2) terminates University employment, or 3) commits fraud and misuse. See Sanctions for Fraud and Misuse of Purchasing Card section of this guide. Amazon Tax Exemption In order for Amazon.com purchases to qualify for tax exemption, each cardholder must perform a one-time upload of the University&rsquo;s Tax Exemption Certificate using the following step-by-step instructions: To enroll in the program, the cardholder should create an Amazon.com profile exclusively for University business purchases , using the cardholder&rsquo;s University email address. The account name should be in the format of &ldquo;University of Memphis c/o {insert your name}.&rdquo; Then, create your account password. The University&rsquo;s tax exempt status does not apply to purchases made with personal funds, even if these purchases are for valid business purposes. If the cardholder already has an account for University business purchases, sign in and confirm or change the name of the account as follows: 1) Go to &ldquo;Your Account&rdquo; 2) Go to &ldquo;Settings&rdquo; area of the page 3) Click on &ldquo;Change Account Settings&rdquo; 4) Click the Edit button next to Name 5) Change the account name to &ldquo;University of Memphis c/o {insert your name}&rdquo; 6) Click &ldquo;Done.&rdquo; To upload the University&rsquo;s Tax Exemption Certificate on the cardholder&rsquo;s account: 1) Contact the Accounting or Procurement Office for a copy of the University&rsquo;s Tax Exemption Certificate 2) Scan, save it, and then log on to &ldquo;Your account&rdquo; in Amazon.com 3) Go to &ldquo;Settings&rdquo; area of the page 4) Click on &ldquo;Amazon Tax Exempt Program&rdquo; 5) Click &ldquo;Browse&rdquo; and select the University Tax Exempt Certificate saved to the computer earlier 6) Click the box to indicate reading and acceptance of Amazon&rsquo;s terms and conditions and click on &ldquo;Upload&rdquo; 7) If the upload was successful, a dialogue box will open with a successful upload message. It may take 3-5 days for Amazon to validate the tax exempt account. To check the exemption status, log on to this page in Amazon.com. If purchases are made through Amazon.com from another supplier, cardholder must provide that supplier with a copy of the University Tax Exemption Certificate. In such cases, reach out to the supplier directly before proceeding with your order. Sales tax may still be charged on items ordered from other sellers that list products for sale on Amazon.com. Exception: Some states outside of Tennessee will not accept a TN sales tax exemption. If the cardholder continues to see sales tax on orders from Amazon.com, contact them at: auto-exempt@amazon.com . The Amazon exemption status will remain active until the expiration of the University&rsquo;s Tax Exempt Certificate. To learn more about the Amazon.com Tax Exemption Program (ATEP), see Amazon&rsquo;s &ldquo;Frequently Asked Questions.&rdquo; Federal Funding Purchases Purchases utilizing federal funding are to follow federal guidelines regarding such purchases. Reference Title 2, Code of Federal Regulations (2 CFR), Part 215: . Record Retention University-Funded Purchases - Records must be retained for three (3) years after the fiscal year-end. Sponsored Programs or Research-Funded Purchases - All supporting documentation must be retained for a period of three (3) years from the date of submission of the final expenditure report for the grant or contract. In addition, grants and contracts may have longer retention periods specified in the award terms and conditions. Departments should ensure compliance with all sponsoring agencies. Documentation standards and retention requirements should be reviewed and noted at the time the award is made to ensure compliance. Questions about record retention for grant and contract purchases are referred to Grants Accounting. Regions Bank Internet Purchasing Card Services Card Management System - With the Regions Visa Purchasing Card, cardholders can access their information via the Internet on Card Management System at . Cardholders utilize this system to download their statements, view, and print transactions. For the first time signing onto Card Management System , cardholders will need the following information: USER ID: this will be cardholder's sixteen (16) digit account number (card number); INITIAL PASSWORD: First two (2) letters of the cardholder's first and last name, and the last four (4) digits of the P-Card. Once cardholder has logged in, it will require a change in password. Follow prompt information to change this initial password. The Procurement Specialist utilizes this system to manage the P-Card process by providing real-time updates to account demographics, card limit information, increase/decrease card limit instantly, change or delete merchant category code groups, and add or delete new accounts online. The system interfaces directly with the allocation setup function in iTracer without having to involve Regions Bank. Additionally, accounts can be blocked if an employee resigns or if a card is lost or stolen. A new card for a new employee can be activated via the Internet. iTracer - iTracer facilitates the management of the Purchasing Card Program by giving the Procurement Specialist and card administrator access to transaction information via the Internet to reallocate funds to a different account code, if needed. Users make better business decisions by having access to timely and accurate expense information. iTracer organizes and displays information in logical views. All views limit the displayed data to a single screen eliminating the need to scroll side-to-side. Within each function, the user can select from a list of relevant views that logically organize information about accounts, transactions, merchants and company hierarchies. To access this information go to . From the main view, click on &quot;Log on to iTracer.&quot; The first time signing onto iTracer , a card administrator will use the following information: USER ID: am (lower case) and six (6) digit hierarchy level number. (This will be provided to the card administrator). INITIAL PASSWORD: password (lower case) and last two (2) digits of the current calendar year. Once the card administrator logs on, it will require a change in password. Follow the prompt information to change this initial password. Regions Customer Service - Card Service Center - The Card Service Center provides assistance to cardholders and card administrators 24 hours a day, 365 days per year. Call 1-888-934-1087 or via email at clientservicesgroup@regions.com . Prohibited/Unauthorized Purchasing Card Use Alcoholic beverages Travel-related expenses (food, lodging, and transportation)* Break room supplies/appliances/consumables for employee use Cash advances** Cash refunds from returned P-Card purchases Personal, professional, consulting, or other services that require a signed contract Items for personal use** Items for non-University purposes which includes gifts for University employees** Meals Dues and membership fees Copy machines and similar multifunction devices Computer products or services from a computer vendor with whom the University has negotiated contracts, e.g., Dell, Apple, etc., must be purchased through the Tigerbuy eprocurement system with an on-line purchase requisition. Use of the P-Card may be used within the Tigerbuy system up to the cardholder's single spending limit. Please consult your campus Local Support Provider (LSP) for specifications of University-supported technology products. (If the LSP cannot repair your computer, repairs may be made via the P-Card through an authorized dealer, within P-Card limits) Moving services Gift cards** Cell phones and related accessories. Reimbursement for such expenses for personal phones (approved for business use) must go through the payroll system (via cell allowance request/change form) to meet IRS regulations. P-Card use for University-owned cell phones is permitted. Purchase of hazardous materials/chemicals, except in emergency situations for University researchers/employees out in the field. In those circumstances, the following guideline must be followed: Specialized Purchasing Guideline (Procedure: Purchase of Hazardous Materials). Construction, repair and renovation services (no labor charges are allowed). Apps Recurring data plans *Registration fees are permitted for local and out-of-town conferences/seminars, when no other travel-related expenses, e.g., lodging, membership dues, etc. are associated with the registration fee. **The P-Card is NEVER to be used to purchase items for personal use or for non-University purposes. A cardholder who makes an unauthorized purchase with the P-Card or uses the P-Card in an inappropriate manner will be subject to disciplinary action including possible termination of employment at the University and criminal prosecution. Blocked Merchant Category Code (MCC) Cardholders may not use a P-Card to make purchases from the following types of merchants/retailers unless prior approval has been granted. Certain items may be unblocked as an exception based on request and usage with prior approval from the Director of Procurement and Contract Services or the Procurement Specialist. These requests will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. The following is a listing of the Merchant Category Groups and/or Merchant Category Codes (MCC) whose access is blocked: BLOCKED MCC DESCRIPTION 3000 - 3299 Airlines 3351 - 3441 Rental Cars 3501 - 4010 Hotels 4011 Railroads 4111 Local/Suburban Commuter Transportation 4112 Passenger Railways 4121 Taxicabs/Limousines 4131 Bus Lines 4411 Steamship Lines/Cruise Lines 4457 Boat Rentals &amp; Leases 4468 Marinas, Marine Service and Supplies 4511 Airlines, Air Carriers (not listed elsewhere) 4582 Airports, Airport Terminals, Flying Fields 4722 Travel Agencies and Tour Operators 4723 Package Tour Operators (Germany Only) 4761 Telemarketing of Travel Related Service 4784 Tolls, Road and Bridge Fees 4789 Transportation Services, Not Elsewhere Classified 4829 Wire Transfer - Money Orders 5271 Mobile Home Dealers 5422 Freezer &amp; Locker Meat Provisioners 5441 Candy, Nut, Confectionary Stores 5451 Dairy Products Stores 5462 Bakeries 5551 Boat Dealers 5571 Motorcycle Shops and Dealers 5592 Motor Homes Dealers 5598 Snowmobile Dealers 5811 Caterers 5812 Eating Places, Restaurants 5813 Cocktail Lounges, Bars-Alcoholic Beverages 5814 Fast Food Restaurants 5921 Package Stores - Beer, Wine, and Liquor 5932 Antique Shops-Sales, Repairs, &amp; Restoration Services 5940 Bicycle Shops - Sales and Service 5960 Direct Marketing - Insurance Services 5962 Direct Marketing-Travel-Related Arrangement Services 6010 Financial Institutions - Manual Cash Disbursements 6011 Financial Institutions-Automated Cash Disbursements 6012 Financial Institutions - Merchandise and Services 6051 Non-Financial Institutions-Foreign Currency, Cheques 6211 Security Brokers/Dealers 6300 Insurance Sales, Underwriting, and Premiums 6381 Insurance Premiums (thru 3/29/96) 6399 Insurance - Not Elsewhere Classified (thru 3/29/96) 6611 Overpayments 6760 Savings Bonds 7011 Hotels-Lodging (Not Listed Elsewhere) 7012 Timeshares 7261 Funeral Service &amp; Crematories 7273 Dating &amp; Escort Services 7276 Tax Preparation Service 7277 Counseling Service - Debt, Marriage, Personal 7280 Hospital Patient Personal Funds Withdrawal Accts 7295 Babysitting Services 7297 Massage Parlors 7299 Personal Services, Not Elsewhere Classified 7321 Consumer Credit Reporting Agencies 7361 Temporary Help Services, Employment Agencies 7393 Protective Services 7512 Car Rental Companies (Not Listed Elsewhere) 7519 Motor Home &amp; Recreational Vehicle Rentals 7841 Video Tape Rental Stores 7992 Golf Courses - Public 7995 Betting Including Lottery Tickets 8111 Legal Services, Attorneys 8241 Correspondence Schools 8351 Child Care Services 8651 Political Organizations 8661 Religious Organizations 8675 Automobile Associations 8911 Engineering, Architectural &amp; Surveying Services 8931 Accounting, Auditing &amp; Bookkeeping Services 8999 Professional Services Not Elsewhere Defined 9211 Court Costs, Alimony, Child Support 9222 Fines 9223 Bail and Bond Payments 9311 Tax Payments 9411 Government Loan Payments 9700 Automated Referral Service 9701 Visa Credential Server 9702 GCAS Emergency Services Sanctions for Fraud and Misuse of Purchasing Card Prohibited/Unauthorized Purchases : First Offense: Cardholder receives email warning from Procurement and Contract Services and copied to card administrator and card reviewer Provide proof that funds were reimbursed Second Offense: Cardholder receives email warning from Procurement and Contract Services Department Head (e.g., Dean, Director, Vice-President) is notified Cardholder must attend mandatory P-Card training Provide proof that funds were reimbursed to the University. If training is not attended or proper documentation is not provided, the P-Card will be immediately terminated Third Offense: The card use is terminated. In the event that the cardholder used the P-Card to make a personal purchase, a determination as to whether taxable income should be assessed will be made by the Accounting Office. In addition, the incident will be reported to Human Resources and the cardholder's department head for the pursuit of potential disciplinary action in accordance with applicable University and TBR policies and State statutes. &quot;No Review&quot; Performed on Cardholder's Monthly Purchases : First Offense: Cardholder receives email warning from Procurement and Contract Services and copied to card administrator and card reviewer Provide proof of review on the next month's statement Second Offense: Cardholder receives email warning from Procurement and Contract Services Department head (e.g., Dean, Director, Vice-President) is notified Card Reviewer and Cardholder must attend mandatory P-Card training together Third Offense: The card use is terminated Fraud : In the event that any cardholder uses the P-Card to make a fraudulent purchase, card privileges will immediately be terminated and a determination as to whether taxable income should be assessed will be made. The incident will be reported to Human Resources, Police Services, Internal Audit and Legal Counsel, along with the cardholder's department head. In addition, termination of employment will be pursued and the filing of criminal charges in accordance with applicable University and TBR policies and State statutes. Related Forms Purchasing Cardholder Enrollment Form Regions Purchasing Card Transaction Dispute Form Purchasing Cardholder Change Form Agreement to Accept Visa Purchasing Card Claim for Traveling Expense Form Request for Meal Reimbursement Form Links University's Procurement Services Policy University's Contracts and Signatory Policy University's Specialized Purchasing Guideline Regions iTracer Regions Card Management System TBR Purchasing Policy and Procedures 4:02:10:00 University Policy UM1311: Purchase of Meals Code of Federal Regulations Contacts Procurement and Contract Services Staff Revision Dates &nbsp Aug-27-2015 Aug-07-2015 Nov-19-2014 Oct-30-2014 Sep-22-2014 May-25-2014 (Working Guideline Number: 10119) back to editor