#http://www.memphis.edu/iei/pdfs/sevis.pdf
2/15/2006 What is SEVIS? SEVIS stands for Student and Exchange Visitor Information System. It is a nationwide, Internet-based system that the U.S. government uses to maintain accurate and current information on non-immigrant students (F and M visa), exchange visitors (J visa), and their dependents (F-2, M-2, and J-2). You are first entered into SEVIS (by a Design ated School Official at IEI) when your initial I-20 is created. When your initial I-20 is printed out, it comes with a barcode and a unique SEVIS ID number. This SEVIS ID should stay with you for as long as you study continuously in the U.S. even if you change your major or transfer to a new school. (If you are out of the U.S. for more than five consecutive months, then you will need a new I-20 to re-enter the U.S.). When you enter the U.S., your arrival is re corded in SEVIS at your port of entry. After you begin your studies in the U.S., SEVIS maintains personal information about you and your academic status. In other words, SEVIS tracks whether you are maintaining F-1 status. The de signated school offi cials (DSO™s) are required by law to enter the following information about each F-1 student: Your local address When you register for your first session at IEI, you must report your local address. If you move at any time, you must notify the DSO and complete a change-of-address form for Immigration. Confirmation of registration At the beginning of each session, the DSO will confirm that you are enrolled fulltime for the current session. Reduced course load If you are eligible for a reduced course load, the DSO must report that as well as the reason why you are not able to take a full course load (e.g., medical reasons). Vacation If you are eligible for your annual vacation and decide not to enroll for a session, the DSO will report that you are on vacation for that session. Transfer If you want to enroll at another school, you must request an official transfer from your DSO. In most cases, you will obtain a transfer request form from your new school to be given to the DSO at your current school. Your current DSO will then transfer your SEVIS record to your new sc hool. Your SEVIS record is accessible to only one school at any time. Extension If, for some reason, you ca nnot finish the IEI program by the program end date indicated on your I-20, you can request an extension. You must request an extension at least 30 days BEFORE the program end date. OVER 2/15/2006 Completion of program If you complete the IEI program or you return home AND you don™t plan to return to the U.S. within 6 months, then your SEVIS record will indicate that you have completed the program. Termination Your SEVIS record may be terminated for va rious reasons, for example, if you do not enroll in classes when you should; if you are dismissed for any reason; or if you work off-campus. If your SEVIS record is terminated, you will have to file for reinstatement if you wish to co ntinue studying in the U.S.