#http://www.memphis.edu/sociology/graduate/descriptions.php
Graduate Course Descriptions - Sociology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Sociology About Us People Research Undergraduate Graduate Resources Graduate Resources About the Program Contact the Advisor How to Apply MA Degree Requirements Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Assistantships Opportunities for Support Course Descriptions Graduate Catalog Forms and Links Graduate Student Profiles Student Placements Student Publications Forthcoming 2014 2013 2012 Prior 2012 Student Presentations Student Awards Home Sociology Graduate Graduate Course Descriptions Course Descriptions 6211. Contemporary Sociological Theories . (3). Major frameworks of 20th century sociological thought, including theoretical schools of functionalism, exchange theory, critical theory, symbolic interactionism, phenomenological sociology, and ethnomethodology; current social and political trends 6312. Intermediate Social Statistics . (3). Multivariate analysis of social data; use of computer programs for data management and statistical analysis. PREREQUISITES: SOCI 3311 and 3322, or their equivalent, or permission of the instructor. 6842. Sociology of Occupations and Professions . (3). Sociological analysis of the division of labor, occupational groupings, career patterns, and professional associations in modern American society. 6900-09. Special Topics in Sociology . (3). Topics are varied and announced in online class listings. 7210-8210. Theory Seminar . (3). An advanced analysis of recent developments in sociological theory, including the relationship of theory to empirical research. 7212-8212. Multi-Racial Feminist Theory . (3). Intensive analysis of major figures and issues in contemporary multi-racial feminist theory, emphasis on theory that grapples with conceptual and methodological requirements for multi-racial feminist politics of diversity that draws on both United States and international scholarship. 7320-8320. Seminar in Methods of Social Research. (3). Issues and techniques in data collection for the design and implementation of independent research projects; logic of conducting social scientific research, ethical considerations, logic of sampling, various methods of collecting data for social research (e.g. experimental design, participant observation, survey research/questionnaire construction, and content analysis), and writing research proposals. 7322. Seminar in Quantitative Data Analysis . (3). Preparation, analysis, and interpretation of existing quantitative data; data processing, multivariate analysis, interpretation, and writing results for research projects. PREREQUISITE: SOCI 6312, equivalent, or permission of instructor. 7325-8325. Seminar in Qualitative Research Methods . (3). Examination of qualitative social science research methods, particularly rationale behind these methods, how and when they are employed, and processes of analyzing field observations, oral histories, and in-depth interviews. 7410-8410. Sociology of Gender . (3). Social definitions of gender and impact of these definitions on women's and men's lives; women's and men's responses to these conditions. 7411-8411. Social Stratification . (3). Theoretical analysis of how social class status and power shape social relations, determine life chances, and affect attitudes, opinions, and political choices of individuals and groups; processes that perpetuate systems of class, gender, and race inequality, and degree of social mobility in societies. 7421. Racial and Social Inequality . (3). (7810). Comparative study of racial, ethnic, and social minorities in the United States; historical and contemporary experiences of groups such as African Americans, Latinos, Asian Americans, Native Americans, homosexuals, and political minorities, as well as current theories in American sociology used to interpret their experiences; how gender and class influence experience of oppression. 7422-8422. Race, Class, and Gender . (3). Concepts, theories, and contemporary empirical research regarding multiple intersections of race, class, and gender; implications for sociological theory and methodology. 7442-8442. Sociology of Poverty . (3). Patterns of wealth and income inequality in contemporary society; consequences of poverty for society and individuals in various institutional contexts. critical evaluation of traditional theories of poverty and contemporary alternatives. 7450. Seminar in Aging . (3). Aging as sociological phenomenon through understanding and applying principles of gerontological analysis to contemporary topics in aging, including acquaintance with and use of computer accessible literature data base. 7511-8511. Theories of Deviance . (3). A seminar in the sociological approaches to the study of deviance and social disorganization with an emphasis on current sociological theory and research. 7512-8512. Deviance and Diversity . (3). The concepts of deviance and diversity are contrasted; such topics as bigamy, multiple spouses, contemporary con games, hate crimes and hate groups, the trans-gender movement, exotic dancing, and trauma may be analyzed using a social constructionist model. 7513-8513. Sociology of Gambling . (3). Sociological examination of the role of gambling in contemporary society with special emphasis on social, economic, and political aspects of gambling behavior; agnostic vs. fatalistic gambling, gambling as social structure, gambling as superstition, gaming industry, illegal and sports gambling, legitimization of gambling, and problem gambling. 7528-8528. School, Family, and Delinquent Children . (3). Delinquency in context of children's relationships with family and school; theory of social bonding; changing social roles of children (through the life cycle and historically); family and delinquency; schools, truancy, and delinquency; endangered children; female delinquency; and treatment/ prevention/control of delinquency. 7631. Urban Theory Seminar . (3). Competing theories and accompanying research findings on current issues in macro and micro urban theory; rise and fall of cities; effects of urbanism and urban form on individual and group behavior; how urban social groups (e.g., social classes, race/ethnic groups) manage their lives and their relations with others, and how these groups mobilize in efforts to change or resist change. 7655-8655. Sociological Foundations of Community Studies . (3). Ecological, interaction, and social system perspectives for community analysis; contemporary applications of theories within context of American society; implications of current changes for community life and social stratification, leadership and power structure, social differentiation and integration, community development, and ideology. 7711-8711. Seminar in Globalization and Social Change . (3). Sociological and historical perspectives on social, political, and economic differences among countries and regions of the world; global/ transnational processes in uneven development; state formation; class transformation; democracy. 7721-8721. Seminar in Social Movements. (3). Origins, organization, and consequences of intentional, collective efforts at social change; social movement theory; in-depth examination of selected movements, both domestic and international. 7751-8751. Seminar in Sociological Social Psychology . (3). Advanced course in social psychology, incorporating basics and emphasizing sociological approaches; symbolic interaction, non-laboratory methods, attitude measurement, socialization, self-concept, gender, attraction, personal relationships, small groups, power, and situationalism. 7811. Formal Organizations . (3). (7460). Competing theories of formal organizations and accompanying research findings on current issues of bureaucratization and centralization of modern social systems; close examination of power and functions of various large scale organizations, including economic, political, and educational institutions. 7820. Seminar in Sociology of Education . (3). Schools and school life from sociological perspective; how societal objectives are translated into school policies and practices. 7830-8830. Seminar in the Family . (3). (7420). An advanced course that is primarily concerned with research findings in the area of family disorganization, changes in family structure and function, parent-child interaction, working mothers, and problems of aging. 7851-8851. Medical Sociology . (3). Social meaning of disease, with special emphasis on the cultural, organizational, and behavioral contexts of the occurrence and management of disease. 7852-8852. Sociology of Mental Illness . (3). Social meaning of mental illness, with special emphasis on the cultural, organizational, and behavioral contexts of the occurrence and management of mental illness. 7853. Gender and Health . (3). Advanced course on sociological understandings of gender, health, and illness in the US; topics include health status, health behaviors, reproductive health, health professions, care-giving, aging and mortality with special attention to women and men of different class, racial, and ethnic groups. 7860-8860. Seminar in the Sociology of Religion . (3). A sociological examinations of religious institutions; cultural and social factors associated with religious structure, religious values, and religious behavior ; secularization of culture and change of social structure; analysis of religious organizations, religious leadership, and religious movements. 7901-7909–8901-8909. Special Topics in Sociology . (1-3). 7912-8912. Directed Individual Study . (1-4). Individually directed advanced reading and/or research in special areas of interest. NOTE: Course may be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: Permission of Coordinator of Graduate Studies. 7913. Teaching Skills for Graduate Assistants . (1-3). Overview and practical demonstrations of art of teaching sociology. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Limited to sociology majors; permission of graduate coordinator. 7914. Workshop in Professional Development for Graduate Assistants . (1-3). Presentations of research methods and scholarly output by faculty, graduate students, and visiting scholars. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Limited to sociology majors; permission of graduate coordinator. 7915. Skills for Research and Proposal Preparation. (1-3). Research design, practice, and methodology in professional writing in sociology; specific emphasis on thesis/dissertation proposal preparation. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Limited to sociology majors; permission of graduate coordinator. 7996. Thesis . (1-6). Supervised research in preparation for advanced degree thesis. PREREQUISITE: The formal filing of a research proposal and outline of procedures acceptable to the student's graduate committee. Graduate Resources About the Program Contact the Advisor How to Apply MA Degree Requirements Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Assistantships Opportunities for Support Course Descriptions Graduate Catalog Forms and Links Graduate Student Profiles Student Placements Student Publications Forthcoming 2014 2013 2012 Prior 2012 Student Presentations Student Awards Community Out of Chaos "portray the idea of chaos to community in Memphis." Online B.A. Want to pursue your college degree and manage your busy lifestyle? Experience online classes at the UofM. Contact Us Main Office Contacts and Location Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .