#http://www.memphis.edu/iei/pdfs/sevis_fee_information.pdf
3/18/2009 OVER SEVIS Fee Requirement Œ F1 Students How Much is the SEVIS Fee? US$200 Who Should Pay the SEVIS Fee? Prospective IEI F-1 students who are: o applying for an initial F-1 visa at a U.S. consulate o visa exempt and applying for en try to the U.S. in F-1 status at a Port of Entry (Canadians, Bermudians) o applying for a change of status to F-1 from another visa status Current F-1 students who: o have fallen out of status and are applying fo r reinstatement after more than 5 months o have been outside the U.S. for more than 5 months and are returnin g to resume a degree program or begin a new degree program NOTE: F-2 dependants (children and spouses) do NOT pay the fee. When Do I Pay the Fee? The fee must be paid at least 3 U.S. government business days before your visa interview The fee must also be paid before an application for change of status to F-1 or application for reinstatement to F-1 status is submitted to the Department of Homeland Security. You may set up the visa appoin tment before paying the fee. How Do I Pay the Fee? The fee can be paid online (which we strongly recommend), through Western Union Quick Pay, or by mail. A third party, such as a family member or friend, may also pay the fee for you. Online payment is recommended because you will be able to print a receipt immediately, which you can bring to your visa interview. Online Payment: o Go to for the electronic I-901 SEVIS fee application o Complete the form online and pay with a credit card (Visa, Mastercard or American Express) or debit card (with Visa or Mastercard logo). *Note: Your name should be written EXACTLY as it is on your I-20 o Print a copy of the online receipt o Make extra copies of your receipt and keep th e receipts in a safe place with your other immigration documents. You may need to prov ide proof of having paid the fee later on. Western Union Quick Pay: o Go to for instructions and sample Western Union forms, which you should print out, so you can refer to them while at the Western Union office. Note: make sure you read the instructions for F1 visas. o Find your local Western Union Quick Pay office by going to: ns.com/agent.asp. Note: not all Western Union locations have Quick Pay available. o Request the Blue Form and complete it as shown in the sample form you printed out. Pay the $200 fee in your local currency. o Make sure you enter the address where you wish to receive the SEVIS fee receipt from the U.S. o A form I-797 receipt will be airmailed to you. Be sure to make extra copies of your receipt and keep them in a safe place with your ot her immigration documents. You may need to provide proof of having paid the fee later on. Mail Payment: o Go to , complete the form online and choose the option to pay with a check or money order, and print out a payment coupon, or Go to vis/i901/index.htm for the PDF version of the I-901 SEVIS fee application, print out the I-901 form and complete it. *Note : Your name should be written EXACTLY as it is on your I-20 o Mail the payment coupon or I-901 form with a check or international money order in U.S. dollars drawn on a U.S. bank. The check or money order should be payable to "I-901 Student/Exchange Visitor Processing Fee" and should ha ve your SEVIS ID # in the memo section. o A form I-797 receipt will be airmailed to you. Be sure to make extra copies of your receipt and keep the receipts in a sa fe place with your other immigration documents. You may need to provide proof of having paid the fee later on . My Visa Application Was Denied Œ What Now? Your fee payment remains valid for 12 months, so you can re-apply for an F-1 visa within the 12- month period without paying a new fee. The fee is not refundable. Does SEVIS Keep a Record of Fee Payment? Yes, an electronic record of your fee payment sh ould be created in your SEVIS record, but it is strongly recommended that you also keep seve ral paper copies of your receipt. If you have additional questions, please visit the Immigration and Customs Enforcement website at or contact IEI admissions at iei@memphis.edu .