#http://www.memphis.edu/anthropology/graduate/masters-practicum.php
Masters Practicum - Department of Anthropology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Student Life Resources Graduate Resources Current Students Future Students Home Department of Anthropology Graduate Masters Practicum Master's Practicum The practicum is the centerpiece of our graduate program, providing practical experience in applied anthropology. Students usually work collaboratively with agencies engaged in applied research, community development and/or community health, and use anthropological knowledge and skills to solve real-world problems. Students in practica typically engage in activities such as research, grant writing, data analysis and program implementation and/or evaluation for governmental and nongovernmental, non-profit and for-profit organizations such as health clinics, schools, police precincts, churches and community development agencies at the local, regional, national, or international level. To earn practicum hours, students register for 6 hours of ANTH 7985. These 6 credit hours comprise completion of at least 300 hours of practicum project work, plus a written report and an oral presentation in a practicum colloquium. Each student is also encouraged to present their practicum results at a professional meeting, such as the SfAAs or AAAs. Practicum Proseminar MA candidates are required to complete the 1-hour ANTH 7984 Proseminar in their first semester. The Proseminar prepares students on the practicum process (e.g. finding a partner organization, developing a practicum agreement, setting goals and objectives); performance (expectations, mentors, technical and writing skills, critical thinking); skills (data collection and analysis, technical writing); reporting (structure, content, presentation style, linking theory and practice); and professionalism (job search, vita, cover letter, interviewing, ethics), plus practicum planning exercises and attendance at the Practicum Forum. Practicum Agreement Students should prepare a formal "practicum agreement," specifying all duties and obligations necessary to fulfill their assignment. The agreement describes what the student will do, how she/he will do it, what the student expects to learn from the experience, and who is responsible for evaluating the practicum performance. The student, their practicum advisor, and their agency supervisor should all sign copies of the statement; each should retain a copy for their records. Ideally, the student's full committee should be appointed before the practicum, though this is not mandatory. Once the committee is formed, all committee members should be given a copy of the agreement. A boilerplate for the practicum agreement is included in the appendix. The Practicum Project The practicum project can be completed by working 20 hours per week for one 15-week semester. However, depending on the agency and assignment, students may arrange a more flexible schedule to fulfill required hours. For instance, students may work fewer hours per week over a longer period (e.g., 10 hours per week for one academic year), or they may work extended hours for a shorter period (e.g., 40 hours per week for 7.5 weeks during the summer). In some cases, students may be permitted to register for practicum hours in a given semester but complete the Proseminar and conduct their assignment during a different period. In order to ensure that the practicum is a rewarding experience, students must work closely with a faculty advisor and an agency supervisor to plan their assignment. Students can ask different faculty members to serve as their practicum advisor and their degree committee chair. While the practicum is usually undertaken late in the degree program, students should begin planning early in their graduate career, in consultation with their faculty advisor(s). When performing a practicum, the student is an ambassador of the Department and the contracting agency. The practicum also creates a foundation for future collaboration between the University and the contracting agency. Therefore, it is essential that students fulfill all commitments and conduct assignments in a responsible and professional manner. Practicum Report Policy The program is designed to focus on the practicum experience. Upon successful completion of practicum responsibilities, all graduate students are required to submit a formal report. Practicum reports should follow the structure outlined below. Students should work with their practicum supervisor to determine the appropriate report length. The practicum report is viewed as an essential record, which documents the assignment experience and its outcomes. Information on the production of the practicum report follows here. Due dates for a practicum report draft and submission of the final, approved report should be set by the advising committee chair. At a minimum, a full draft should be distributed to the graduate student's full advising committee at least six weeks before the end of the semester in which the student intends to graduate. Allow a minimum of two weeks for faculty members to review and return drafts with comments. All committee members must approve the final practicum report. Approvals can be made electronically (sent by email) to the committee Chair. Once approved, electronic copies of the final report must be submitted to the advising committee, practicum supervisor, and the Anthropology Graduate Coordinator, who will place the report on file in the Department's permanent digital record. Practicum Report Structure While the practicum report is brief (typically 10-20 typed, double-spaced pages for items 3-6), specific criteria listed below must be included. Requests for exceptions to this structure must be cleared in advance with the student's advising committee chair, in consultation with the Graduate Coordinator, and indicated by written permission of the committee chair. A Practicum Report Checklist is included in the appendix to further assist in its production. The report structure is as follows: Title page. Provide a brief title specifying the agency, the nature of the assignment, and the student's name. Near the bottom of the page, include this statement: "This report is submitted in partial satisfaction of the requirements for the Master of Arts in Anthropology." Below this statement the student should enter the semester in which the report will be filed (e.g., Spring 2014). Executive Summary (1 page). Offer very brief bullet points summarizing items 3-6, below. This should form the second page of the report. Introduction. Begin the report by summarizing the nature of the practicum (i.e., evaluation, grant writing, etc.). It should include a description of the supervising agency (the administrative context within which the practicum was conducted), an outline of assigned responsibilities (attach a practicum agreement, job description, or scope of work as an appendix), and a summary statement of the assignments goal(s) and greater significance. Background and Methods. Provide a context for the practicum, drawing on relevant literature, providing specifics on assigned duties or methods used, and describing the time frame within which tasks were completed. For repetitive activities, indicate the overall time frame of the practicum and the approximate proportion of effort devoted to each major activity. Practicum Assignment. Provide a detailed description of activities that were accomplished and outcomes that were achieved by the practicum. Data or other findings may also be summarized here. However, a full report or other deliverables prepared for the agency should be attached as an appendix. Significance/Discussion. Prepare a substantive statement on the practical and theoretical value of the practicum experience. Discuss and critically analyze links between coursework and the practicum, including relationships of core and concentration requirements (i.e., research methods, data analysis, theory, applications, and GDC or Medical courses) with the practicum project. Discussion should also evaluate anticipated outcomes and results that were actually achieved during the course of the assignment. Recommendations . Offer any summary remarks which you feel are relevant to the general conduct and/or organization of your practicum. This statement should also offer recommendations for modifications in comparable practica, if they were to be conducted in the future. If appropriate, comment on how your practicum experience shaped your professional goals. Appendices and attachments . These may be minimal or extensive, as appropriate and depending upon the nature of the practicum assignment. The practicum agreement, job description, and any materials prepared by the student as a part of the project should be included (e.g., grants, bibliographic references, reports, or evaluations produced as a part of the practicum duties). Vita. Attach a copy of your current curriculum vita. Masters Practica List: Click here for the Masters Practica list and agencies (1997-present) Graduate Resources Current Students Future Students Undergrads: Declare Anthropology your major! Join the Graduate Program Learn about applied and engaged anthropology! News and Events Find out what's happening in the Department of Anthropology Contact Us Main office location and numbers, undergraduate and graduate advising Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .