#http://www.memphis.edu/cas/advising/major-brochures/criminology.pdf
Crimin ology and Criminal Justice Criminology and Criminal Justice is a complex field. The study of crime and justice connects researchers, practitioners, and policy makers, who together tackle issues such as drugs, gangs, violent crime, corporate c rime, capital punishment, incarceration, police brutality, and international crime. At T he University of Memphis, the Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice emphasizes research, scholarship, service, and community outreach. Our faculty, many of whom have won teaching awards, provide outstanding instruction on the causes of crime and on methods for controlling and preventing it. The department provides all of its students with the analytical and research skills for successfully pursuing the exte nsive variety of careers possible in the public and private sectors. What does a typical selection of courses look like? methods, and theory, you can pursue electiv e courses on such topics as: Drug Addiction and Alcoholism Police in America Courts in America Ethical Dilemmas in Criminal Justice Forensic Science Corporate and White - Collar Crime Terrorism Organized Crime Private and Industrial Security Victimology W hat other opportunities can you enjoy in Criminology? Internships with local criminal justice agencies Specialized guidance, if you are considering law school, from the Coll ege of Arts and Sciences Faculty Advisor Ms. Mary Tucker, mhtucker@memphis.edu , an d Pre - Professional Advisor, Ms. Jessica Kelso (jgclffrd @memphis.edu, Scates 107) ; emphis.edu/cas/pre_law/index.php A minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts, which includes courses specifically designed to strengthen analytical and expressive l anguage skills for law school Participation in volunteer projects in your area of interest, which provides hands - on experience and opportunities to network with professionals Assisting faculty on local and national research grants Engagement in outreach an d service CRIMINOLOGY AND CRIMINAL JUSTICE SAMPLE FOUR - YEAR PLAN Freshman Year ENGL 1010 3 ENGL 1020 3 GE MATH 3 - 4 BA Math/Nat. Science w/lab 3 - 4 CJUS 1100 3 CJUS 2226, 2326, or 2426 3 BA Foreign Language 2010 3 BA Foreign Language 2020 3 Elective 3 GE Social/Behavioral Science 3 Semester Totals 15 - 16 hrs. 15 - 16 hrs. Sophomore Year ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 GE Social/Behavioral Science 3 CJUS Elective 3 Elective 3 GE Humanities/Fine Arts 3 GE Nat. Science w/lab 4 GE Nat. Science w/lab 4 GE Fine Arts 3 GE History 3 CJUS 3130 3 Semester Totals 16 hrs. 16 hrs. Junior Year GE History 3 BA UD Humanitie s 3 Elective 3 CJUS UD Elective 3 CJUS 3540 3 UD Elective outside major 3 CJUS UD Elective 3 Elective 3 COMM 2381 3 CJUS UD Elective 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs. 15 hrs. Senior Y ear CJUS UD elective 3 CJUS 4110 3 CJUS UD Elective 3 CJUS UD Elective 3 Elective outside major 3 UD Elective 3 UD Elective outside major 3 Elective outside major 4 UD Elective outside major 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs. 13 hrs. GE = General Education Requirements BA = Bachelor of Arts college requirements UD = Upper division Foreign Language Requirement See the Undergraduate Catalog : CJUS 1100; one of 2 226, 2326, or 2426; 3130; and 3540 are prerequisites for most UD CJUS electives. Degree hours = 120 42 Upper Division hours required for graduation No more than 2 hours of physical education courses may be counted toward a degree. Residence 30 of the last 60 hours must be taken at University of Memphis; at least 60 hours must be at a four - year institution; transfer students must earn at least 6 hours of a major at UM and at least 3 hours of a minor at UM CRIMINOL OGY AND CRIMINAL JUSTICE COURSE DESCRI PTIONS CJUS 1100. Introduction to Criminal Justice. Introduction to American criminal justice system. CJUS 2110. Comparative Justice Systems. Overview of justice systems of various countries. CJUS 2120. Contemporary Issues in Criminal Justice. Overview o f current problems facing the criminal justice system. CJUS 2140. Crime, Public Policy, and the Criminal Justice System. Social construction, social causes, and explanations for criminal behavior. CJUS 2226 - Introduction to Police . Introduction to law e nforcement, emphasizing the functions, operations, and practical realities of crime control in American society; career opportunities within criminal justice. CJUS 2326 - Introduction to Courts . Introduction to American courts, emphasizing the functions, operations, and practical realities of crime control in American society; career opportunities within criminal ju stice. CJUS 2426 - Intro/Corrections in America . Introduction to corrections, emphasizing the functions, operations, and practical realities o f crime control in American society; career opportunities with criminal justice. CJUS 3129. Statistical Methods in Criminal Justice. Statistical methods commonly utilized in criminal justice research. CJUS 3130. Research Methods in Criminal Justice. Tech niques commonly utilized in criminal justice research. CJUS 3152. Drug Addiction and Alcoholism. Cultural and medical aspects of use of alcohol and various other drugs. CJUS 3226 - Police in America . Comparative analysis of problems, procedures, organizat ion, and functions of effective police organization; examination of advanced police strategies and evaluation of their effectiveness. CJUS 3326 - Courts in America . Exploration and analysis of structure, process, personnel, policy, and legal theory in the American judicial system; examination of specialized and innovative courts and evaluation of their effectiveness. CJUS 3426 - Corrections in America . Concepts of organizational behavior applied to probation, parole, community - based corrections, prisons, and other detention facilities . CJUS 3510. Law and Society. Law as system of control and as mechanism for resolution of conflict. CJUS 3521. Constitutional Criminal Procedure. General application of U.S. constitution principles to investigative and prosec utorial process of the criminal justice system. CJUS 3540. Criminology. Examination and explanation of crime including sociological, economic, psychological, and biological theories of crime causation; theories examined in light of criminal justice data. CJUS 3542. Crime and Criminal Behavior . Classification of crime and typical elements involved in each type of crime. CJUS 4110. Advanced Application in CJUS. Selected special issues integrating theory and empirical research with the evolving field of cri minal justice practice, programs, and policy. CJUS 4126. Criminal Justice Administration and Management. Management philosophies for administration of criminal justice agencies. CJUS 4130. Ethical Dilemmas In Criminal Justice. Legal, moral, & social impl ications of ethical dilemmas in criminal justice. CJUS 4150. Internship In Criminal Justice. Experience in actual criminal justice setting. CJUS 4160 . Forensic Sciences. Forensic specialties in terms of their history, scientific rationale upon which each is based, and problems that may compromise accuracy or validity; introduction to field techniques and analysis of evidence. CJUS 4170. Prevention and Deterrence to Crime. Theoretical and practical strategies for crime prevention and deterrence. CJUS 418 0 . Corporate and White - Collar Crime. Organizational and occupational crime compared to other types of criminality. CJUS 4190 . Terrorism: Social and Legal Perspective. Theoretical and ideological aspects of practice of and response to international and dom estic terrorism; terrorism as crime from political, social. economic, historical, and legal perspectives. CJUS 4233. Organized Crime. Nature, structure, characteristics, and investi gation of syndicated crime . CJUS 4235. Security Management . Role and func tion of private police organizations and legal restrictions on private security personnel; facets of private security to include retail, industrial and corporate security. CJUS 4460. Race, Ethnicity, Gender & Criminal Justice in America Race, ethnicity, an d gender in the American system of criminal justice; examining how practices of criminal justice reflect societal organization, conflict, and social change. CJUS 4520 . Substantive Criminal Law. Substance of the crime, including common - law sources and basi c principles, types of offenses, responsibility, justification and excuse, and related areas. CJUS 4521. Foundations of the Criminal Process. Examination of historical, philosophical and social issues influencing the development of criminal law; considera tion of problems regarding application of criminal law in a democratic society. CJUS 4530. Principles of Evidence and Proof. Rules of evidence and matters of proof affecting criminal investigation in investigatory and prosecutive stages of criminal justic e. CJUS 4531 . Issues in Constitutional Rights. Issues in constitutional rights related to criminal defendants. CJUS 4533 . Juvenile Delinquency . Theories of juvenile delinquency, gang activities, and status offenses; history, organization programs and proc edures of agencies charged with control and prevention of juvenile delinquency . CJUS 4535. Capital Punishment in America. Social science on the death penalty in the United States. CJUS 4542. Victimology. (3). ictim interaction with offender, criminal justice system, and others involved in event; evidenced by current and historical research findings. CJUS 4999. Senior Honors Thesis. (3). Independent research project conducted under direction of faculty supervis or. CRIMINOLOGY AND CRIMINAL JUSTICE PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS Program objectives for a B.A. in Criminology and Criminal Justice are: (a) to possess a fundamental understanding of the criminology and criminal justice discipline; (b) to develop skills in anal ysis, synthesis, and quantitative reasoning essential to hypothesis testing, critical thinking, interpretation of data, and written and oral communication; (c) to be successful in finding employment that utilizes the knowledge and trai ning developed in the program. A. University General Education Program (41 hours) See the Undergraduate Catalog for the University General Education Program requirements. B. College and Degree (B.A.) Requirements ( 12 - 16 hours) The College and Bachelor of Arts requirements are in addition to the University General Education Program requirements and are listed in the Undergraduate Catalog . C. The Major (36 hours) Completion of 36 semester hours of criminology and criminal justice including CJUS 1100, either 2226, or 2326 o r 2426, 3130, 3540 and 4110, plus 21 additional hours in criminology and criminal justice, of which at least 15 hours must be at the upper - division level. Students will be allowed no more than 6 hours of credit toward the degree in non - classroom courses su ch as internships and individual directed studies. D. Electives Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120. E. Honors Program Majors who have completed at least 55 hours of coursework (with at least 9 hours in Criminology & Crimina l Justice) and have a 3.25 or higher departmental and overall grade point average are invited to apply for admissions to the department's honors program. Students who are admitted must complete 15 hours of honors coursework in the Department, with at least 9 hours being upper - division criminal justice courses. Honor students must maintain a grade point average of at least 3.25. Students who complete the program and the regular college requirement will be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having the student's diploma and the official record at The University of Memphis will also reflect this accomplishment. Criminology and Criminal Justice Minor Completion of 18 hours in cri minal justice courses including CJUS 1100, either 2226 or 2326 or 2426 and 3130 and 3540, and 6additional upper - division hours in Criminology and Criminal Justice courses. For more information, please contact: The Department of Criminology and Crimin al Justice McCord Hall 311 901 - 678 - 2737 Chair: Dr. K B Turner kbturner @memphis.edu Undergraduate Advisor: Ms. Mary Tucker mhtucker @memphis.edu The University of Memphis The College of Arts and Sciences http:// phis.edu http:// .memphis.edu /cas UM Career Services: http:// .memph i s.edu/ careerservices The University of Memphis, a Tennessee Board of Regents institution, is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action University. It is committed to education of a no n - racially identifiable student body. 9 /15