#http://www.memphis.edu/cas/advising/major-brochures/economics.pdf
Economics Economics is a structured way of thinking that is applicable to a wide variety of issues. Economics gives students a great deal of flexibility in terms of career and graduate school choices. Majoring in economics gives students the critical t hinking and problem solving skills that are the best preparation for the corporate world, law school, public administration, international studies, and many others. The Bachelor of Arts in Economics (through the College of Arts and Sciences) is for lib eral arts students who want to enhance their employment possibilities by acquiring the analytical tools that employers demand. It is also a good preparation for graduate school in many disciplines. Students may also get a second major in math through a dua l degree program. The diversity of topics in economics allows more flexibility in career choice than most other ma jors. Economics graduates from T he University of Memphis are in an excellent competitive position as they enter the business world or continu e their education in graduate or professional sc hool. The training received at T he University of Memphis provides a logical, systematic approach to the solution of a variety of problems and issues. Business economists assist in decision making in many cruc ial areas such as product pricing, environmental and regulatory impact analysis, market development trends and cost control analysis. Economics graduates are sought - after, valuable additions to any business. What opportunities can you enjoy as a student i n Economics? Among the highest scores on the LSAT and GMAT tests Starting salaries that are among the highest of any discipline A degree in a field that has one of the highest projected growth rates in the next decade Internationally - recognized faculty who are dedicated to quality education A flexible degree for students who may not want to make a career out of economics, but want to make the most out of their careers The best background for a career in banking, insurance, manufacturing, technology, s ports, public policy, government or entertainment , and t he foundation to continue studies at graduate and law schools such as Harvard, Cornell, Vanderbilt, Michigan State and others Students with interest and demonstrated ability in economics are eligible for membership in Omicron Delta Epsilon, the International Honor Society in Economics . ECONOMICS [B.A.] SAMPLE FOUR - YEAR PLAN Freshman Year ENGL 1010 3 ENGL 1020 3 GE MATH 3 - 4 BA Math/Nat. Science w/lab 3 - 4 GE Humanit ies/Fine Arts 3 GE Fine Arts 3 BA Foreign Language 2010 3 BA Foreign Language 2020 3 Elective 3 ECON 2010 GE Soc./Behav. Science 3 Semester Totals 15 - 16 hrs. 15 - 16 hrs. Sophomore Year ENG L 2201 or 2202 3 COMM 2381 3 Elective 3 Elective 3 ECON 2020 - GE Soc./Behav. Science 3 Elective 3 GE Nat. Science w/lab 4 GE Nat. Science w/lab 4 GE History 3 GE History 3 Semester Totals 16 hrs. 16 hrs. Junior Year BA UD Humanities 3 UD Elective 3 UD Elective 3 UD Elective 3 UD Elective 3 ECON 3320 3 ECON 3310 3 UD ECON 3 UD ECON 3 Elective 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs. 15 hrs. Senior Year Elective 3 UD ECON 3 UD ECON 3 UD ECON 3 UD ECON 3 UD Elective 3 Elective 3 Elective 4 Elective 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs. 13 hrs. GE = General Education R equirements BA = Bachelor of Arts college requirements UD = Upper division Foreign Language Requirement See the Undergraduate Catalog : Degree hours = 120 42 Upper Division hours required for graduation No more than 2 hours of physical education courses may be counted toward a degree. Residence 30 of the last 60 hours must be taken at University of Memphis; at least 60 hours must be at a four - year institution; transfer students must earn at least 6 hours of a m ajor at UM and at least 3 hours of a minor at UM ECONOMICS COURSE DESCRIPTIONS ECON 20 10. Introduction to Macroeconomics. Nature and functions of the national economy in a global context. ECON 20 20. Introduction to Microeconomics. Operation of the marke t economy at the individual and firm level. ECON 3020 - 29. Special Topics in Economics. Current economic issues and problems in the United States. ECON 3123. Economics of Sports. Tools and concepts of microeconomics to the sport world. ECON 3210. Labor Ec onomics. Introduction to institutional aspects of American labor force and its organization wage and employment theory, economic role of collective bargaining, and basic ingredients of public policy toward labor organization. ECON 3310. Microeconomic Theor y. Intermediate approach to price theory; stress on market mechanism as device for resource allocation; attention to uses of basic microeconomic concepts in analysis of economic problems and in formulation of policy. ECON 3320. Macroeconomic Theory. Inter mediate approach to social income accounting and to functional relationships between important aggregate economic variables as well as to forecasting and social policy implications. ECON 3411. Economics of Social Issues. Applications of economic theory an d analysis to current social problems. ECON 3580. International Economic Development - An Ecological Perspective. Process of economic development as both developed and less developed countries. ECON 3610. Money and Banking. Monetary and banking history of leading countries. ECON 4112. Organizational Economics. Analysis of markets and organizations, competitive advantage, production and cost, consumer and market demand, strategic management decision - making, decision rights, incentives and rewards, and structure of performance systems. ECON 4120. Economic Forecasting. Current economic thinking on problems of recession and inflation as background to eco nomic forecasting; methodologies of forecasting analyzed with examples of each. ECON 4130 . Government Regulation of Business. Approaches to legal and legislative control of business, especially tax laws, commission regulations, and antimonopoly legislatio n, in view of impact of each on industrial operating policy. ECON 4220. Urban/Regional Economics. Examines issues relevant to cities, including the reasons why cities exist, how economic activity is organized within cities; transportation, poverty, crime, development, public fi nance. ECON 4230. Economics of Ecology . Examines the market system of resource allocation in the larger context of the natural world and ecological system. ECON 4240 - Economics of Vice. Applications of economic theory and analysis of topics such as crime, dating, sex, drugs, addiction, and music; evaluation of current and potential policies related to these issues. ECON 4340. Comparative Economic Systems. Factors contributing to differential performance of economic systems, includi ng property rights, information flow, incentive structure, management - labor relations, government policies on technology and competitiveness; emerging trends of system convergence and corporate globalization. ECON 4350. International Economics. Historical approach to theory of international trade; consideration given to Classical, Neo - Classical and Modern approach to trade theory with emphasis on policy implications of the analysis. ECON 4351. International Monetary Economics: Theory and Policy. Open econo my macroeconomics; examination of payments among nations, foreign exchange markets, determinants of exchange rate policies; national income and foreign exchange, internal and external balance and international factor movements. ECON 4410. Development of E conomic Thought. Historical development of economic thought; attention primarily on emergence of Classical and Neoclassical thought, several dissident schools of thought, and twentieth century economic thought. ECON 4550 - Ga me Theory/Strategic Analysis. Study of strategic behavior when parties have opposed, mixed, or similar interest; sequential and simultaneous move games, pure mixed strategies, various equilibrium concepts, and repeated games. ECON 4620. Mathematical Economics. Introduction to way in wh ich basic mathematical tools are used by economist s . ECON 4561. Economics of Financial Crisis. What caused the financial crisis of 2008 and the ensuing Great Recession? ECON 4740. Health Care Economics. Unique nature of health care as economic good, healt h care market and its participants including patients, physicians, and hospitals,. ECON 4760 - 69. Special Topics in Economics. Topics are varied and in online class listings. ECON 4766. Economics of Poverty and Discrimination. Study of the causes of pover ty, the economic implications of discrimination, and public policy solutions. ECON 4810 . Quantitative Economic Analysis. Introduction to application of mathematical tools in business and economics. ECON 4820. Econometrics. Introduction to statistical proc edures used to estimate and test quantitative economic theories. ECON 4910. Problems In Economics. Students investigate issues surrounding selected economic problems and develop reports of that investigation. ECON 4911. Internship In Economics. Internshi p in business organization to gain on - the - job experience. ECON 4920. Senior Seminar In Economics. ECON 4996. Honors Thesis. Independent research open only to students enrolled in Economics Honors Program. ECONOMICS PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS [B.A.] A. Unive rsity General Education Program (41 hours) See the Undergraduate Catalog for the University General Education Program requirements. B. College and Degree (B.A.) Requirements ( 12 - 16 hours) The College and Bachelor of Arts requirements are in addition to the University General Education Program requirements and can be found in the Undergraduate Catalog . C. The Major (30 hours) Completion of 30 s emester hours, including ECON 2010, 20 20, 3310, 3320, and 18 additional upper division semester hours in econom ics courses as approved by the department advisor. D. Electives Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120. E. Honors Program All students who receive a minimum grade of "B" in ECON 20 10 or 2 0 20 honors sections are eligible for t he honors program. Entry to the program can also be obtained through the recommendation of a member of the faculty to the Economics Departmental Honors Committee. A student must maintain an average grade of at least 3.25 in economics to continue in the pro gram and must have a minimum average grade of 3.5 in economics to graduate with honors in economics. Honor students take special courses during the junior and senior years, particularly the honors sections of ECON 3310 and 3320, and write a senior research paper. Those students who complete the program and the regular college requirements will be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having their y of Memphis will reflect this accomplishment. Details of the program are available in the Economics Department office. Business Economics Minor (through the College of Business and Economics) For students whose major outside of the Fogelman College: 18 s emester hours in econ omics courses, including ECON 20 10, 2 0 20, one of ECON 3310 or 3320, and 9 additional upper division hours in courses as approved by the department chair. Accelerated B.A./M.A. Program in Economics This program allows outstanding under graduates to begin the coursework for the Master of Arts in Economics during their senior year. Students are encouraged to begin planning to enter the Accelerated B.A./M.A. program early in their undergraduate career, in consultation with their advisor in the Department of Economics. Please consult the Undergraduate Catalog for further information. For more information, please contact : The Department of Economics http:// . memphis.edu /economics ; 901 - 678 - 2785 Fogelman College of Business and Economics, R oo m 400 Chair: Dr. William Smith Advising contact: Dr. Douglas Campbell wtsmith @memphis.edu dacampbe @memphis.edu Other University Resources: The University of Memphis The College of Arts and Sciences http:// .memphis.edu /cas UM Career Services: http:// The University of Memphis, a Tennessee Board of Regents institution, is an Equal Opportunity /Affirmative Action University. It is committed to education of a non - racially identifiable student body. 9 /15