#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/acad_reg/earning_credit.php
Additional Means of Earning Credits - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Academic Regulations Additional Means of Earning Credits Additional Means of Earning Credit 1. Credit for Selected Secondary School Courses a . Advanced Placement Credit The University of Memphis participates in the Advanced Placement Program of the College Entrance Examination Board. Appropriate credit is awarded for scores of 3, 4, or 5. Advanced placement credit may also apply to certain university requirements and to major requirements. Information about credit awarded may be obtained from the Admissions Office and the Office of Admissions website. b. International Baccalaureate Program The University of Memphis recognizes secondary students' participation in the International Baccalaureate Program and awards college credit for completion of selected courses. To be eligible for credit, students must earn a score of 4 or higher. Information on credit awarded is available in the Admissions Office. 2. Credit for Instruction in the Armed Services An official evaluation of armed services instruction is made after a student is accepted as a regular undergraduate student. Credit awarded for completion of services schools will be governed by recommendations at the baccalaureate level from the current Guide to the Evaluation of Educational Experience in the Armed Services. Military transcripts, for example SMART or AARTS, must be presented to the Office of Admissions. Upon presentation of a copy of the veteran's report of separation (DD Form 214) to the Office of Admissions, six semester hours of health and physical education credit will be awarded. Veterans with less than one year of continuous full-time service who have completed basic training while on active duty will be awarded credit as recommended in the Guide to Evaluation of Educational Experiences in the Armed Services. 3. Credit for Non-collegiate Sponsored Instruction Credit is awarded for non-collegiate sponsored instruction offered by corporations, associations, labor unions, government agencies, and training providers which has been evaluated by the National College Credit Recommendation Service of the American Council of Education and recommended in the current NCCRS guide. The Office of Admissions should be contacted for information. 4. Credit by Examination Credit by examination is awarded based upon standardized examinations and upon examinations administered by departments of the University for specific courses and for placement. Students may not take an examination for credit in a course previously taken for credit, with the exception of lower division transfer courses that the student wishes to validate for upper division credit. Students may, however, take an examination for credit in a course that was audited or in courses at a lower level than a course taken for credit. a. CLEP and DANTES Standardized Examinations The University of Memphis awards credit for standardized examinations of the College-Level Examination Program (CLEP) of the College Board and for standardized examinations of the Defense Activity for Non-Traditional Education Support (DANTES). Credit awarded is based upon credit recommendations and minimum scores recommended by the American Council on Education. CLEP and DANTES credit may also apply to certain University requirements and to major requirements. For information on credit awarded, test dates, and fees, contact the Testing Center. b. Departmental Examinations Almost all courses in the undergraduate curriculum, except for those with laboratory, research, or performance requirements, are available for credit by examination. Students who believe that they have already mastered the material of a particular course offered at the University of Memphis may take a departmentally administered examination for credit in that course. To apply for credit by examination, a student must be enrolled at the University of Memphis and have a GPA of 2.00 or above. An eligibility form may be obtained in the Office of the Registrar - Records Analysis. Permission to take a credit examination must then be obtained from the chair of the department in which credit is sought and from the dean of the college in which the student is seeking a degree. Students pay $60 per course, plus $15 per credit hour in excess of three (3) credit hours per course (see Fees and Charges) prior to taking the exam. To receive credit, the student's examination grade should be the equivalent of a "C" or above. Credit is indicated on the student's record as CR. 5. Upper Division Credit by Validation Examination Credit for courses at the freshman or sophomore level is transferred as lower division credit even though the content may be equated to University of Memphis upper division (junior/senior) level courses in some cases. In order to receive upper division credit for a lower division course that has an upper division equivalent, the credit must be validated through appropriate departmental examinations, portfolios, or other documentation. Contact the department to see if this option is available, to make application and to obtain information. There is no fee for validation examinations. 6. Credit for Course Placement and Completion Some departments offer the opportunity to receive credit by course placement and completion for selected courses. Students who receive prior approval from the department chair may enroll in a University of Memphis course at the level for which they feel previous instruction or experience qualifies them. Upon completion of the course, they receive credit for certain sequential courses numbered lower than the one in which they enrolled. Recording of credit for the lower numbered course(s) is contingent upon completion of the higher level course with a minimum grade of "C". Upon completion of the course, approval of the chair of the department and payment of fees are required for credits to be recorded. (See Fees and Charges) In the Department of Foreign Languages and Literature, students whose first college-level course in a language is 2010 may apply for credit for 1020 in that language. Students whose first college-level course is 2020 may apply for credit for 1020 and 2010 in that language, and those whose first college-level course in a language is a 3xxx course in composition and/or conversation may apply for credit for 1020, 2010, and 2020 in that language. 7. Credit for Experiential Learning by Assessment Students seeking degrees in the College of Communication and Fine Arts, the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences, and University College, and some programs in teh Fogelman College of Business and Economics may be granted credit for college level knowledge and understanding related to the student's major area of study and gained from work experience, life experience, or non-college instruction. The student who wants an assessment of such learning prepares a portfolio that describes and documents the learning. Portfolios are assessed by faculty who teach in that area. Assessment by portfolio is reserved for knowledge and competencies which do not readily fit into the credit by examination procedures described above. More detailed information about procedures may be obtained from the individual colleges. For fee information, see Fees and Charges. 8. Credit for English Composition The University of Memphis awards 3 hours of credit for ENGL 1010 English Composition to students with an ACT English subscore of 29 or above. Students who have previously taken ENGL 1010 and earned a passing or failing grade are not eligible. ACT scores are valid for 3 years. Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .