#http://www.memphis.edu/cas/advising/major-brochures/sociology.pdf
S oci ology Sociology is the study of social relations within groups, institutions, organizations, they do? How do changes in health care services or the health car e industry affect the are the most important social changes in this country over the last 30 years? How does These are jus t a few of the questions that interest sociologists. And to answer them, we use a variety of theories and research techniques that help us evaluate social problems, and come up with solutions that change our world. Why Sociology at The University of Mem phis ? 1. We offer a broad range of undergraduate courses t hat will teach you the theories an d the methodological techniques needed to understand and interpret events occurring around you. 2. We offer an atmosphere of support and respect for a wonderful array of sociological research. You can learn about such diverse issues as: immigration and racial transformation in the South; the social identity of entertainers; health care delivery in East Africa; hunger and war in the developing world; information te chnology and global development; economic development and education; the effects of the gambling industry; globalization and Memphis; social change and Southern women; sport and South African society; health and society; the intersection of race and gender in society; religion and society. 3. We offer a unique setting for sociological work: the city of Memphis itself. And the University has many outstanding departments, programs, libraries, museums, performances, and archives that enrich our teaching, sch olarship, and learning. A number of our faculty conduct interdisciplinary research and several are affiliated with the nationally - known Center for Research on Women (CROW) and the Benjamin Hooks Institute for Social Change . What other opportunities can yo u enjoy as a Sociology major? Honors program in Sociology , including individualized honors thesis research Integration of information technology into coursework and special projects O pportunity to participate in the undergraduate Sociology club Working w ith top faculty known nationally and internationally for their research SOCIOLOGY SAMPLE FOUR - YEAR PLAN Freshman Year ENGL 1010 3 ENGL 1020 3 GE MATH 3 - 4 BA Math/Nat Science w/lab 3 - 4 SOCI 1010 - GE Social/Behav. Scie nce 3 GE Social/Behavioral Science 3 BA Foreign Lang. 2010 3 BA Foreign Lang. 2020 3 Elective 3 GE Humanities/Fine Arts 3 Semester Totals 15 - 16 hrs. 15 - 16 hrs. Sophomore Year ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 SOCI 3311 3 GE History 3 GE Fine Arts 3 Elective 3 GE History 3 GE Nat. Science w/lab 4 GE Nat. Science w/lab 4 Elective 3 Elective 3 Semester Totals 16 hrs. 16 hrs. Junior Year SOCI 3322 3 SOCI 4210 or 4211 3 UD SOCI 3 UD SOCI 3 Elective 3 UD SOCI 3 UD Elective 3 UD Elective 3 COMM 2381 3 Elective 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs. 15 hrs. Senior Year UD SOCI 3 UD Elective 3 BA UD Humanities 3 SOCI 4999 3 UD Elective 3 UD SOCI 3 Elective 3 Elective 4 Elective 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs. 13 hrs. GE = General Education Requirements BA = Bachelo r of Arts college requirements UD = Upper division Foreign Language Requirement See the Undergraduate Catalog : Degree hours = 120 42 Upper Division hours required for graduation No more than 2 hours of physical education courses may be counted toward a degree. Residence 30 of the last 60 hours must be taken at University of Memphis; at least 60 hours must be at a four - year institution; transfer students must earn at least 6 hours of a major at UM and at least 3 hours of a minor at UM SOCIOLOGY COURSE DESCRIPTIONS SOCI 1010 . Introductory Sociology. Introduction to concepts, methods and theoretical perspectives in sociology. Basic principles of sociological reasoning introduced through lectures, reading assign ments, and micro - computer instruction. SOCI 2100. Sociology of Globalization . Social change in an increasingly interdependent world; introduction to development theory and how relations among countries condition changes within them. SOCI 3112. Contempora ry Social Problems. Sociological approaches to understanding contemporary social problems. SOCI 3311. Social Statistics. Application of basic statistical concepts and techniques to social analysis. SOCI 3322. Methods of Social Research. Overview of pr ocess of social research; selection and formulation of problem, design of research, methods of investigation, analysis and interpretation of data, and report preparation. SOCI 3401. Social Inequality. Unequal distribution of power, property, and prestige and social relations of dominance and subordination in the American class system. SOCI 3420. Sociology of the South. Political economy and major institutions in the South and implications for different races and classes; the South since World War II, in cluding the Civil Rights movement. SOCI 3422. Racial and Ethnic Minorities: A Socio - Historical Approach. Racial and ethnic minorities in United States, how inequality is institutionalized in such areas as employment, education, political participation, a nd social relations. SOCI 3432. Sociology of Gender. Traditional conceptions of masculinity and femininity and modifications of these resulting from economic, demographic and cultural changes; socialization for masculine and feminine roles and variations in these roles throughout life cycle; class, race, occupational and other institutional differences in sex roles. SOCI 3501. Sociology of Deviant Behavior. Problems in applying definitions of deviance in everyday life; theories about causes and consequ ences of deviance critically reviewed . SOCI 3540. Gambling and Society. Role of gambling in society. SOCI 3541. Criminology. Nature and significance of criminality; etiology of illegal behavior; trends in social reactions to crime and criminals; evolutio n of biological, psychological, and sociological theories of criminal behavior. SOCI 3701. Individual and Society. Basic theory and research dealing with study of human behavior in social situations; emphasis on communication processes, socialization, so cial roles, social self, and interaction in group contexts. SOCI 3820. Sociology of Education. Sociological analysis of education and its functions, school and community relationships; problems of social change and educational adjustments. SOCI 3831. Ma rriage and the Family. American family patterns, including mate selection, man - woman relationships, marital satisfaction, parent - child communication, divorce, alternative lifestyles and other contemporary issues. SOCI 3860. Sociology of Religion. Rol e o f religion in modern society . SOCI 3940. Social Change. A critical assessment of explanations and patterns of social change from a global perspective. SOCI 4210. Rise of Sociological Theory. Nature, grounds, and explanatory powers of various forms of s ociological theory. SOCI 4211. Contemporary Sociological Theory. Trends and developments in sociological theory from the mid - 20 th century to today . SOCI 4312. Intermediate Social Statistics. Multiv ariate analysis of social data. SOCI 4413. Globalizati on, Culture, and Information Technology. Effects of the global digital divide. SOCI 4420. Racial Inequality. Relations of dominance and subordination in the United States . SOCI 4425. Environmental Sociology. Role of social institutions in shaping environ mental discourse and action. SOCI 4442. Sociology of Poverty. Sources of inequality and how experiences of poverty are shaped by race, gender and age. SOCI 4460. Black and White Women in the South. How history of South and political - economic structure ha s shaped black and white women's work, family, community activities, and relationships. SOCI 4541. Sociology of Aging. Ageism in sociocultural contexts; current beliefs, values, and norms regarding aging; structural location of aging in society. SOCI 4 631. Cities in Change. Historical transformation of urban communities and urban life. SOCI 4641. Sociology of the Global Environment. Examination of interactions between physical environment in which we live and human societies which we have created. SO CI 4842. Sociology of Occupations and Professions. Sociological analysis of division of labor, occupational groupings, career patterns, and professional associations in modern American society; meaning of work. SOCI 4851. Medical Sociology. Explanation of the relationships among society, population processes and health; examination of the ways in which health is as much social as biological. SOCI 4852. Sociology of Mental Illness. Definition, taxonomy, models; epidemiology, demographics of class, age, s ex, race, residence, marital status; media images, public policy, delivery systems, examines personal experiences and social stigma. SOCI 4912. Directed Individual Study. Individually directed advanced reading and/or research in special areas of interest. SOCI 4996. Public Sociology Seminar. Engagement of multiple publics in multiple ways to address critical community and civil society issues. SOCI 4997. Internship in Sociology. Supervised practical experience in applying sociological principles in a sett ing appropriate to the discipline of sociology. SOCI 4998. Honors Thesis. Original research conducted under the direction of a faculty mentor. SOCI 4999. Senior Thesis Seminar. Analysis of process and practice of sociological inquiry. SOCIOLOGY PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS A. University General Education Program (41 hours) See the Undergraduate Catalog for the University General Education Program requirements. B. College and Degree (B.A.) Requirements ( 12 - 16 hours) The College and Bachelor of Arts requireme nts are in addition to the University General Education Program requirements and are listed in the Undergraduate Catalog. C. The Major (30 hours) Completion of 30 semester hours in sociology, SOCI 1010, 3311, 3322, 4210 or 4211, 4999 (or SOCI 4998 for Ho nors students), and 15 additional upper - division hours in SOCI. D. Electives : Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120. Honors Program The Honors Program in Sociology requires 18 hours of honors work, at least 12 hours of which m ust be upper - division sociology courses. To complete the Honors Program, a student must have a minimum overall final grade point average of 3.00 in Sociology, and a 3.25 average in honors course work. Those students who complete the program and the regular college requirements will be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having their Memphis will reflect this distinction. Please see the dep artment's Honors Advisor fo r more details on the program. Sociology Minor : SOCI 1010 and 15 upper - division hours in SOCI. Accelerated B.A./M.A. Program in Sociology This program allows outstanding undergraduates to begin the coursework for the Master of A rts in Sociology during their senior year. Students are encouraged to begin planning to enter the Accelerated B.A./M.A. program early in their undergraduate career, in consultation with their advisor in the Department of Sociology. What c an I do with a B.A. in Sociology? A Bachelor of Arts in Sociology is excellent preparation for future graduate work in sociology in order to become a professor, researcher or applied sociologist. The undergraduate degree also provides strong liberal arts preparation fo r entry level positions through out the business, social service, and government worlds. Employers look for people with the skills that an undergraduate education in sociology provides. Sociology offers valuable preparation for careers in journalism, politi cs, public relations, business, or public administration - fields that involve investigative skills and working with diverse groups. Students choose sociology because they see it as a broad liberal arts base for professions such as law, education, medicine , social work, and counseling. Sociology provides a rich fund of knowledge that directly pertains to each of these fields. Given the breadth, adaptability and utility of sociology, employment opportunities abound for B . A . graduates. You can secure entry le vel positions in many of the areas previously mentioned in defining the scope of sociology. For more information, please contact : The Department of Sociology Undergraduate Advisor: Ms. Kendra Murphy .memphis.edu /sociology 901 - 678 - 4555; khmr phy1 @memphis.edu 231 Clement Hall . memphis.edu/sociology/undergraduate/index.php 901 - 678 - 2611 Chair: Dr. Martin Levin mllevin@memphis.edu Sociology Honors Program: The University of Memphis The College of Arts and Sciences UM Career Services: .memphis.edu/ careerservices The University of Memphis, a Tennessee Board of Regents institution, is an Equal Opportunity /Affirmative Action University. It is committed to education of a non - racially identifiable student body. 4/15