#http://www.memphis.edu/cas/advising/major-brochures/minors.pdf
Minors Why choose a minor? Your most important decision about your academic career at the U of M will be what you choose as your major. But pursuing a minor in a secondary subject enhances both your educational experience and your opportunities aft er graduation. Here are some specific benefits: Complementing your major with a minor in a related field deepens your knowledge base. For example, a n International Studies minor indicates a focused area of int erest employers will value! A minor also heightens your credentials. If you are a Biology major with a Chemistry minor on your transcript, you look more focused and well rounded to a graduate admissions committee. Especially for students in Bachelor of Sc ience programs, the courses you take for your major may bring you close to a minor in another field. For instance, Chemistry majors need only a few more courses to have a minor in Biology, or Physics majors need a few more courses in Mathematics for a min or. - med chemistry major, but you love art history. Get a minor and enjoy it. Foreign languages are the mo st popular minors at the U of M because of the international nature of our world, the need to understand other cultures, and the desire to develop a skill in another language. eturn to the U of M for a minor as you can for a second major, so e arn that extra qualification now! What do I have to do to complete a minor? Most minors require only 18 - 21 hours of coursework in a department or program 4 or 5 courses you plan early, you won How do I declare a minor? Come to Scates 107 if your major is in Arts and Sciences; all you have to do is fill out a form. If your major is in another college, go to the undergraduate advising office t here. What minors are available? You can work toward a minor in any of these programs in the College of Arts and Sciences : Aerospace Studies Anthropology Biology Chemistry Computer Science Criminology and Criminal Justice Earth Sciences English Foreign Languages * * Chinese * French * German * Greek * Italian * Japanese * Latin * Russian * Spanish Geography History Legal Thought and Liberal Arts Mathematics Military Science Naval Sciences Nonprofit Management Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Public Administration Sociology Social Work For a list of the requirements of these minors, check the Undergraduate Catalog ( ) or this website: What is spe cial about a Foreign Language minor ? The Foreign Language Department offers students a chance to test into a higher level of their language, often the case if they have taken 3 or 4 years in high school. Starting at a higher level makes completing a min or in the language easier. The Foreign Langua ge website has more information : .memphis.edu/ fl. Another opportunity for foreign language acquisition is the Study Abroad program. Students can choose to spend a semester or a year in another count ry learning their language at a deeper level through immersion while taking courses toward their U of M degree. T here are also short term opportunities to study a foreign language for several weeks during the summer. For more information on the Study Abr oad program, check this website: Why not choose an Interdisciplinary minor ? The College of Arts and Sciences also offers attractive minor s in popu lar interdisciplinary programs : African & African American Studies Asian Studies Classical Studies Emergency Management Environmental Studies International Studies Judaic Studies Legal Thought and Liberal Arts Pre - Health Studies Religious Studies The courses required in these programs come from different discip lines or subject example, the African and African American Studies minor incorporates courses in the Humanities, Social and Behavioral Sciences, and the Arts. The Environme ntal Studies minor allows students to consider biological - physical threats and solutions as well as behavioral - social - economic implications with courses in the sciences, social and behavioral sciences and economics. For students interested in pursuing car eers in the legal profession , the Legal Thought and Liberal Arts minor provides exposure to a broader liberal arts curriculum , with particular emphasis on attributes required by the legal profession: read ing critically, think ing logically, and writing clea rly . For further information on any of these interdisciplinary minors, please visit this website: Does my minor have to be in the same college as my major ? No, y ou may choose to work toward a minor in another college. You cou ld add a fine arts minor in art, dance, photography, or theater. Or you could choose a business minor in accounting, economics, or sales . For all the minors available, check the Undergraduate Catalog : hp Do I have to choose a minor ? In the College of Arts and Sciences, s tudents are not required to have a minor . For more information, please contact: Patsy Krech, Director of Advising College of Arts and Sciences pakrech@memphis.edu Interdi sciplinary Studies Office Scates Hall 107; 901 - 678 - 3550 Minors in the College of Arts and Sciences: s _cas.pdf Other University Resources: The University of Memphis s.edu The College of Arts and Sciences http:// .memphis.edu /cas U M Career Services http:// The University of Memphis, a Tennessee Board of Regents institution, is an Equal Opportunity /Affirmative Action University. It is committed to education of a non - racially identifiable student body. 9 /15