#http://www.memphis.edu/studentaffairs/pdfs/saprograms9115.pdf
Page | 1 UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHI S STUDENT AFFAIRS OFFICES AND PROGRAMS The Division of Student Affairs provides services, programs, and activities that build on the university™s academic base. The Division of Student Affairs is led by the Vice President for Student Affairs , Rosie Phillips Bingham , Ph.D . Division Organizational Chart: Vice P resident for Student Affairs Office Parent & Family Services : Parent & Family Services provides parents of future and current students with information about the university that helps them help their student through their college career. Parents and family members have access to a parent website, monthly e -news, a parent calendar, parent chats with administrators, a Facebook page and a twitter feed to keep them up to date with important dates, deadlines, and events. A panel of current parents is a part of New Stud ent Orientation. If they have questions, they can contact the office through the parent email ad dress or the parent hotline. Phone: 901.678.2115 Student Affairs Learning and Assessment: The Office of Student Affairs Learning and Assessment provides support t o departments and programs by: a ssisting in assessment design; Coordinating assessment for maximum efficiency and to avoid Student Survey Fati gue; assisting in the analysis and interpretation of assessment data; serving as an assessment data clearinghouse; assisting in the creation or clarification of learning objectives; consulting on how to plan with a learning objective focus (vs. activities focus); c ollaborating on grant writing by providing assessment support and grant -writing Page | 2 experience; p roviding presentations on assessment or lear ning objectives, as requested; c o-authoring or co -presenting on assessment or learning outcome -related project s, as requested; facilitating the annual report process. Phone: 901.678.5547 Commencement Office: The Commencement Office organizes and facilitates all university commencement ceremonies and the Honors Assembly. Educational Support Program: The Educational Suppor t Program provides academic assistance for classes that students are currently taking at the U of M. ESP's free services are available to graduate and undergraduate students. Both free and paid tutoring are available as well. Phone: 901.678.2704 Student Life Student Life depar tments provide programs, services, and facilities centered around the mission of enhancing the learning experience of students. Recognizing the diversity of the student population, this is accomplished by offering a wide variety of opportunities. It is le d by the Associate Vice President for Student Affairs/Dean of Students, Danny Armitage. The Dean chairs the Behavioral Intervention Team (BIT), a cross -campus student crisis group activated and comprised of individuals based on each individual situation. Phone: 901.678.2187 Adult and Commuter Student Services: Adult and Commuter Student Services fosters an atmosphere where students who are juggling college along with work and family responsibilities can gather and interact in a supportive environment where they can truly connect with other adult and commuter stu dents. The mission of the Adult and Commuter Student Services office is to provide a supportive environment for non -traditional and commuter students that promotes intellectual, social and academic growth and development through services and programs that foster lifelong learning. Phone: 901.678.2995 Off Campus Housing: Veterans Resource Cent er: The Veterans Resource Center supports the transition from military life to civilian life. It is committed to providing veterans, active -duty, National Guard, reservists and qualified dependents with the services necessary to pursue their Page | 3 academic and personal interests, integrate into the campus community and ultimately ensure a succ essful experience. Phone: 901.678.4269 Conference and Event Services : Conference and Even t Services offers comprehensive event management services and is availabl e to help plan and execute conference s through : Registration management, Financial tracking, Event marketing and promotion, Coordination of logistics, Coordination of vendor showcase/ exhibitor, Registration of guests, speakers, exhibitors, VIPs, On -site assistance. This department also oversees the University Center and Rose Theatre. Phone: 901.678.5000 Scheduling Office: The Scheduling Office is the primary point of contact for all departments, groups, and individuals, who are interested in scheduling the use of facilities and space at the University of Memphis. By centralizing the scheduling process we are able to provide internal and external groups efficient and effective service for scheduling activities and events. Universi ty Center: The University Center and the Michael D. Rose Theatre support the educational mission of the University of Memphis by providing high -quality facilities, equipment, services, and student employment opportunities. In addition, they schedule and su pport programs that build community and promote student involvement and learning. Phone: 901.678.2041 Multicultural Affairs: The Office of Multicultural Affairs provides a welcoming an d supportive environment that advises students of color with regard to their academic, social, cultural, and financial affairs. With a caring, professional staff, the office helps students adjust to learning, living, and working in a large university setti ng. Students also utilize the office as a source of information about opportunities for leadership development, conferences, internships, scholarships, professional schools, and community involvement. This office is responsible for Black History Month, Hispanic History Month and advises many multicultural student organizations, such as Black Scholars Unlimited. They are also charged with connecting with LGBT students and supporting the university™s rich diverse community. Phone: 901.678.2054 Page | 4 Residence Life: The University of Memphis campus offers eight different residence halls (Richardson Towers , Living Learning Complex, Smith Hall, Rawls Hall, South Hall, Carpenter Complex, Mynders Hall, and Carney Johnston Œ Lambuth ), including Graduate and Student Family Housing for graduate students or students who are married or have families. Options vary from traditional style residence hall to apart ment style living to meet the needs of all our students. A new residence hall with 8 00 beds will open Spring 2016 . The goal is to provide each student with a living environment that is safe, comfortable, and will enhance the student™s academic, intellectu al, cultural, spiritual, and social development. Phone: 901.678.2295 Child Development Center: This center is designed to meet the needs of student -parents at the University. Q uality childcare is provided to these parents, while they pursue t heir own education. Care is provide d for children ages 30 months to twelve years. The center believes each child is unique and special with different needs and abilities and they strive to meet those needs with qualified staff and developmentally appropriate activities. They use the HighReach Learning Program, which has an appropriate curriculum for each age group. The Center is a NACCP Accredited Three Star Center. Phone : 901.678.5059 Tiger Dining: Tiger Dining provides a variety of dining options for the campus community. Students, faculty, and sta ff can choose from an all -you-care -to-eat option at Tiger Den , the Union Food Court in the University Center, Tigers of Memphis Restaurant, Einstein™s Brothers, or the other options all over campus. Students have access to funds via Dining Dollars, Meal Plans, and Tiger Funds. Phone: 901.678. 2112 Office of Student Conduct: The Office of Student Conduct administers the Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities and other student policies, including academic dishonesty, classroom disruptive behavior, peer -to-peer sexual harassment, sexual assault, and student organizations. R esponsibilities include investigating complaints filed against students, referring students for academic and personal counseling services, administrative adjudication of cases, and monitoring stu dent completion of sanctions. The Office provide s student eth ical programming addressing issues of academic integrity, civility, and dispute resolution. The Office is the main support for the Behavioral Intervention Team (BIT). Phone: 901.678.2298 mphis.edu/studentconduct/ Page | 5 Student Leadership & Involvement: The Office of Student Leadership and Involvement provides programs and opportunities through which students may become meaningfully involved in campus life. Our programs and activities support th e Student Life mission of enhancing overall personal development. These programs and initiatives include campus wide entertainment, cultural and educational programs (concerts, speakers, etc.), Greek organizations, volunteer services, leadership training, recognit ion and student organizations. Phone: 901.678.8679 Community Service: Many community service opportunities are available for students, staff a nd faculty. Most programs involve a low time commitment and count toward service hours on campus. The web site will give information on various programs to get you connected in the community. phis.edu/service/ Frosh Camp : Frosh Camp is a four day camp exclusively for incoming freshmen. Frosh Camp gives new students an upper hand on their first year by teaching what to expect inside and outside of class, introducing them to all that The University of Memphis has to offer, tons of Tiger spirit, connections with upperclassman and 250 fellow freshmen, fun, memories, and lots of new friends! There are 3 sessions each summer held at Camp NaCoMe. Frosh Camp was started as a student initiative in 1994 and has continued to be run entirely by students. Greek Affairs: Fraternities and sororities are an integral part of student life, and they contribute much to the University. Greek members are visib le throughout the campus, holding membership and leadership positions in campus organizations that range from departmental clubs to the highest honor societies. Perhaps the greatest benefits of joining the Greek community are the diverse and lasting social networks, academic support, and positive group experiences. There are 3 councils and 22 active chapters among the 3 councils. Phone: 901.678.2093 Leadership Programs : The Offi ce of Leadership and Involvement offers a variety of leadership training programs designed to complement the academic experiences. Whether students are brand new to campus or an experienced student leader, they are sure to find a program that meets their n eeds. These include the Emerging Leaders Scholarship Program, Tiger Leadership Institute, LeaderShape, Leadership Exchange, Professional Connections, LEAD conference, and the Personal Branding Conference. Page | 6 Student Activities Council : The Student Activities Council (SAC) strives to make sure students never utter the words, "There's nothing to do on campus." SAC does this by providing programs, events, and services to The University of Memphis community focusing on social, physical, intellectual, and emotional development. SAC promotes diversity as they strive to improve the quality of student life at The University of Memphis. SAC events are free and open to all. The stude nt activity fee is at work bringing students a variety music, comedy, lectures, cultural events, movies, awareness weeks, social gatherings, and opportunities to just relax!! Student Government Association: The Student Government Association (SGA) is divided into three branches: Executive, Judicial, and Legislative. All three branches have been established to work for the students. The mission of the SGA is to provide improvement in all aspects of the univers ity experience through continuous interaction among students, faculty, and administration in an effort to challenge the administration to uphold its high standard of academic excellence while fostering an atmosphere of student growth in scholastics, campus and community involvement, and cultural unification. Phone: 901.678.2051 Student Organizations: The University of Memphis has organizations that are: Arts, Cultural, Greek (Fratern ity & Sorority), Honorary, Political, Academic/Professional, Religious, Representative Council, Service, Special Interest, Sports & Recreation. There are over 200 RSO™s (Registered Student Organizations) on campus during any academic year. A new organiza tion can be formed with 10 interested students. Up ‚til Dawn: Up 'til Dawn was started here at the Univer sity of Memphis just over 13 years ago. Since the program was started it has spread to over 250 schools nationwide and now generates nearly $5 million annually for groundbreaking research and lifesaving care at St. Jude Children™s Hospital. Overall, the pr ogram has raised more than $20.6 million nationwide! Up 'til Dawn unites students, staff and their local communities with a goal to help the children of St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. Students who lead Up 'til Dawn on their campuses educate the com munity about St. Jude while raising money through a variety of activities. At the end of the program, campuses host a Finale Event and stay "Up 'til Dawn" celebrating their achievements and honoring the patients at St. Jude. Students "fight the yawn" so th at St. Jude patients can g row up and go to college, too. Page | 7 Student Development Student Development provides services and programs dedicated to the development of students as total people. Their focus is "Students First." It is led by the Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs for Student Development, Stephanie Blaisdell, Ph.D. Phone: 901.678.5426 First Scholars Program: The program supports first -generation college students and enhances their ability to successfully graduate. First -generation college students as those whose parents ha ve no education beyond high school (irrespective of other family members such as older siblings, aunts, or uncles). The program is open to incoming first - time, full -time freshmen whose parents did not attend college. Selected students receive personalized support, an annual award of $5,000, which is renewable for a total award of $20,000 over 4 years. This program is funded by the Suder Foundation. Campus Recreati on Intramural Services: As a vital component in the process of higher education, this program contributes to the health, physical, psychological and social wellbeing of The University of Memphis community, serving students, faculty, staff, alumni and frien ds of The University of Memphis. Modeled on a variety of successful, state of the art programs in both the public and private sectors, the Campus Recreation Intramural Services program represents a significant core element of life in The University of Memp his community. Phone: 901.678.2811 Career Services: Career Services works with students during all phases of the career development process. Their services include individual career planning, resume critiquing, mock interviewing, and internship and job search preparation. They also work to build strong part nerships with the university and Memphis community at -large. Phone: 901.678.2239 Disability Resources for Students: Disability Resources for Students serves stu dents who have a variety of disabilities, including mobility, visual and hearing impairments, a variety of chronic health disorders, psychiatric disorders, learning disabilities, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, seizure disorders, traumatic brain injury, and substance abuse. To receive disability related accommodations and services, students must first register with Disability Resources for Students and provide current and appropriate medical and/or psycho -educational documentation which identifies the specific Page | 8 nature and extent of a qualifying disability, including the functional limitations currently imposed by the disability. Phone: 901.678.2880 Student Health & Counseling Services : The office of Student Health & Counseling Services is made up of the Counseling Center, Student Health Center , and Testing Center. It is a comprehensive student development agency committed to providing a seamless set of services to assist stude nts in actualizing their maximum potential. Phone: 901.678.2068 Counseling Center: Confidential individual, couples, family, and group counseling services, as well as substance abuse issues, psychological and educational assessment services are all availa ble through the Counseling Center at no cost to students (except for testing fees to cover the cost of assessment materials), including personality, learning disorders, and ADHD testing . A student must be enrolled in at least 6 credit hours in the current semester to request services and can walk in any day of the week between 10 am and 2 pm. 901.678.2068 Student Health Center: The Student Health Center is an acce ssible, cost effective health care facility on campus that emphasizes campus wide health promotion, disease prevention, and acute episodic outpatient medical care. Full time students can visit the Student Health Center free of charge with their student ID and faculty staff can also visit for a small fee. Student Health Services is staffed with a Physician, Nurse Practitioners, Registered Nurses, Licensed Practical Nurse, Laboratory and X -ray Technologist, Health Educator, and various administrative support personnel. Phone: 901.678.2287 Testing Center: Our Testing Center Main Office is in the John W. Brister Building in Room 112. In addition to the U of M Prometric Center, access ing several thousand computer -based tests, the Testing Center assists in a full range of student assessment needs. Phone: 901.678.2428 Student Affairs Learning and Assessment: The Office of Student Affairs Learning and Assessment provides support t o departments and programs by: a ssisting in assessment design; Coordinating assessment for maximum efficiency and to avoid Student Survey Fati gue; assisting in the analysis and interpretation of assessment data; serving as an assessment data clearinghouse; assisting in the creation or clarification of learning objectives; consulting on how to plan with a learning objective focus (vs. activities focus); c ollaborating on grant writing by providing assessment support and grant -writing Page | 9 experience; p roviding presentations on assessment or lear ning objectives, as requested; c o-authoring or co -presenting on assessment or learning outcome -related project s, as requested; facilitating the annual report process. Phone: 901.678.5547 Commencement Office: The Commencement Office organizes and facilitates all university commencement ceremonies and the Honors Assembly. Educational Support Program: The Educational Suppor t Program provides academic assistance for classes that students are currently taking at the U of M. ESP's free services are available to graduate and undergraduate students. Both free and paid tutoring are available as well. Phone: 901.678.2704 Student Success Programs: Student Success Programs is a federally funded TRIO Program through the U.S. Department of Education to provide free academic, career, financial, personal, social, and technological assistance and support to eligible college students. The program helps eligible participants adjust to college life, achieve academic success, graduate, and move on to become contributing members of society. The mission of the Student Succes s Program is to increase retention and graduation of students who are either low -income, first generation, and/or students who have a documented disability. The mission includes fostering an institutional climate supportive of the success of a diverse group of students who have an academic need by providing educational opportunities, giving attention to individual needs, and emphasizing academic excellence. Phone: 901.678.2351