#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mis/2015FMIS2749006.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus MIS 2749 - 006 Foundation of Information Systems Fall Semester, 2015 3.0 Credit Hours Instructor: Vicki R. Robertson E - mail: vrobrtsn @memphis.edu Course Overview This course is an introduction to major concepts in business information systems, including computer hardware, software, networks, databases, the Internet, and electronic commerce with an emphasis on use of spreadsheet technology to solve business problem s. P re - Requisites/Co - Requisites: There are no course pre - requisites to enrolling in this course. Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : Valacich and Schneider. Information Systems Today, Sixth Edition. Pe a rson Publishing. Available in bound version, l oose - leaf version, and e - text. Only the bound version can be purchased as used, and only the bound version can be re - sold. SIMnet Access Code for Complete Version of Excel 2013. McGraw - Hill Publishing. Available online at and in University Bookstore. No used codes ; all must be new . Available with or without an e - text for Excel 2013. Recommended Texts (and Related Materials) : It is recommended (but not required) that students who have not had experience with Microsoft Excel consider purchasing either the Access Cod e with the e - text for Excel or the textbook Wood and Nordell (2014) Microsoft® Office 2013 In Practice Excel Comple te. M cGraw - Hill Publishing Company. ISBN: 0078096006 Location of Course Materials : Course materials are located on line at : (instructions, PowerPoints, text exams, news) (all Excel instruction, projects, exams, etc.) Course Objectives : Students will gain an understanding of why becoming proficient with technology will help them to understan d and participate in important issues in the world, the workplace, and society. Students will study the various types of computer - based information systems used in organizations and how to creatively use these information systems to support business opera tion, decision - making, and the achievement of strategic objectives. Students will gain an understanding of the digital components of a computer including input and output devices, processing, storage, connectivity, ports, and power controls. Students will become aware of the social implications, security, ethical and legal issues associated with the use of information technologies. Students will gain understanding of the way organizations use Internet, Intranets and Extranets and how to make the most of the Students will understand the difference in application and system software and will study various types of business, multimedia and entertainment software. Students will study the various types of mobile devices and the use of these devic es in business. Students will gain an understanding of the career options for Business and Information Technology majors. Students will demonstrate critical thinking skills as applied to Business and Information Technology majors . Students will demonstrate an ability to use the Microsoft® Office Applications suite to solve business problems. Students will be given the opportunity to become Excel Certified. Students will demonstrate presentation skills using PowerPoint. Students will strive to be better com municators and to maintain emotional control. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree BBA pdf BBA ACCT ngOutcomes.pdf C ourse Methodology This course has deadlines that have to be met, but students will be given a range of dates for completing all assignments and exams. Some of the work will require you to work outside on class. The College of Business has labs available in rooms 100 and 372 that you can use. In addition, the Tech Lab in the Student Center is available. You do not have to have Excel 2013 on your computer when you are doing the lessons because the lessons are in a simulation on SIMnet. However, there are 4 projects that will require that you have Excel 2013 on the computer you are using. You will need to either work where you have this software installed or if you do not have the software, you can download a free copy at: The most important expectation is that student s stay engaged and complete assignments in a timely manner. The course is designed to help the student complete the work without undue pressure, but the t imeline require s the student to be working both in class and out of class on a regular basis . All assignments have definite due dates. There will be no make - up exams , so it is expected that students plan to be in class on the day of an exam. As with all technology, there may be times whe n there are computer problems. Any computers problems can be addressed by one of the options shown on the eCourseware Content Tab. Students must address any home computer technology problems quickly so that not much time l ost is lost . A good suggestion is to have a backup computer plan. Grading and Evaluation Criteria Students will be evaluated in the following areas: 1. Exams 60% of grade There will be 5 exams during the semester. Each exam is worth 100 points. Each e xam is 1 2 % of your grade. Two of the exams ( 2 nd and 5 th ) will cover material from the Information Systems Today textbook. These exams will be in eCourseware. Exams 1 and 3 will be on Excel applications and will be in SIMnet. Exam 4 is a Microsoft® Office Specialist Certification Exam for Excel 2013. The exam must be given at The University of Memphis campus or at another certified testing center. Other certified agencies include the Lambuth campus and New Horizons. If the student pa sses the exam at the required level, the student can earn a Microsoft Certification. Certification is not required for passing the course; however, each student is given the opportunity to earn th at certification. This exam grade will count 1 2 % of the clas s grade as do each of the other exams . Students may take the Certification exam twice. The higher grade will be the exam grade for the class. 2. Projects in SIMnet 20% of grade Students will have 4 projects in SIMnet to submit for grading. Each project will be graded separately and then the average of the 4 will be the overall score for 20% of you final grade. This is the only part of the Excel work where you must have Excel 2013 on the computer . You can choose to download a free version, work in the campus labs or at a library or any other place where you have 2013. 3. Computers Now 5 % of grade Students will have tutorial lessons on SIMnet concerning the computer hardware/software. Tutorial lessons are evaluated on SIMnet. 4. PowerPoint Prese ntation 10% of grade Each student will create a PowerPoint presentation as assigned by the professor. 5. Business and Information Enrichment Points 5% of grade Students will be given several opportunities to earn BIT points which will enhance your overall grade. These enrichment activities will be discussed in class so that you can choose which ones (if any) you would be interested in pursuing. Specific due dates will be stated for the above activities. Failure to complete items before the due date will result no credit . It can be assumed that if no due date is specified, the work is due by the end of the week in which the assignment is made , so that you are always up - to - date . An optional comprehensive final covering the Information Systems Today text materials and Excel applications can be substituted for a low grade on any on e of the five 100 - point exams. No one has to take the comprehensive final it serves only to improve the grade or to make up for a test that was not taken. SIMnet grades will be posted on SIMnet as you complete the assignment, and eCourseware exams and PowerPoint Presentation will be posted on eCourseware. Both SIMnet grades and eC ourseware grades will be posted on the eCourseware Grades tab during the semester. Final Course Grades A = 90% or higher B = 80 - 89% C = 70 - 79% D = 60 - 69% F = Less than 60% of total points The MIS Department does not give + (plus) or (minus) grades. Final Exam Schedule The final exam for this course will be given during the Final Exam period as scheduled on the Memphis website. This is an optional exam, but it must be taken during the time set aside for this class. Course Policies E - MAIL: I prefer that you use my Memphis email when you plan to email me listed above in the syllabus . Attendance: S tudents need to be actively engaged in the class . The expectation is that you are in class at the time of your class. Although there is work that you can do outside of class, this is not an online course. Necessary information about assignments and class discussions require that you be in class. Academic Integrity: Your instructor will adher e to university policies related to cheating and class conduct. (Refer to the Student Handbook, sections Academic and Misconduct and Classroom Misconduct for information) SIMnet Online has integrity checking to be sure that a student submits their own work . Should your professor have evidence that using a Office of Student Conduct website . Late Assignments: Late assignments will have a penalty . In some cases t he assignments will not remain on the web after the day and time due. Extra Credit: There is no extra credit in this course. Reporting Illness or Absence: Please report by email any extended illness or problems that would keep you from turning in assignments on time. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Please be sure to give your professor your form from the SDA office Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Peer Power Tutors are available for students who need extra help. Please let your profess or know that you need one. The service is free. Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance MIS 2749 TENTATIVE CALENDAR FALL, 2015 WEEK CONCEPT BOOK ASSIGNMENTS SIMNET EXCEL ASSIGNMENTS ADDITIONAL ASSIGNMENTS 1 August 24 Read Chapter 1 in Information Systems Today (IST) and view PowerPoints Register for SIMnet, Review syllabus Read Introductory Material on eCourseware; Complete Lesson 1 of Computing Now 2 August 31 Continue Chapter 1 and read Chapter 3 pp. 96 - 116; 121 - 127 of IST then view PowerPoints Lesson 1 SIMnet Lesson 2 Computing Now 3 September 8 Sept . 7 Labor Day Holiday Continue Chapter 3, and read Chapter 4 on IST then view PowerPoints Lesson 2 SIMnet Lesson 3 Computing Now 4 September 14 Continue with Chapter 4 IST Lesson 3 SIMnet Project 1 in SIMnet 5 September 21 Read Chapter 5 in IST and view PowerPoints Lesson 4 SIMnet Project 1 due Project 2 Assigned EXCEL EXAM NEXT WEEK 6 September 28 Continue Chapter 5 Exam 1 Excel Lessons 1 - 4 Project 2 due; Lesson 4 Computing Now Assign PowerPoint Presentation 7 October 5 Exam 2 I ST CHAPTERS 1, 3, 4 AND 5 Lesson 5 SIMnet Project 3 assigned 8 October 14 Fall Break 10/ 12 - 13 Read Chapter 6 in IST; view PowerPoints Lesson 6 SIMnet Project 3 due; Lesson 5 Computing Now 9 October 19 Continue Chapter 6 an d read Chapter 7, pp. 287 - 295. View PowerPoints Lesson 7 SIMnet Project 4 SIMnet Lesson 6 Computing Now PPoint Due 10/23 10 October 26 Read Chapter 8, pp. 308 - 318 and pp326 - 338 in IST; Read Chapter 9 in IST; View all PowerPoints Lesson 8 in SIMnet Lesson 9 in SIMnet Project 4 due Lesson 7 Computing Now Begin PowerPoint Presentations 11 November 2 Continue Chapter 9; and read Chapter 10, pp. 392 - 409; 416 - 427. View PowerPoints Exam 3 Excel lessons 1 - 9 MOS practice MOS exam next week PowerPoint Presentations 12 November 9 Continue Chapter 10 Microsoft Office Specialist Certification Exam on Excel (exam 4) Retakes for MOS n ext week PowerPoint Presentations 13 November 16 Microsoft Office Specialist Certification Exam RETAKES PowerPoint Presentations BIT points due 14 November 23 Nov . 25 - 29 Thanksgiving Break PowerPoint Presentations 1 5 November 30 Study day, December 3 Exam 5 IST Chapters 6 - 10 PowerPoint Presentations Dec. 8 Optional Final Exam ALL FORMS MUST BE TURNED IN BY NOVEMBER 20 Class to receive credit: MIS _________, Section ______ Student Name: Event: Event date: Sponsoring Organization: These events do not require pre - approval from the course instructor All events hosted by the Complete Professional Program Professional development events hosted by these registered student organizations: The Association for Management Information Systems (AMIS) The Economics Club Financial Management Association Supply Chain Management Student Association Future Business Leaders of America International Business Student Organization Society for Human Resources Management Student Marketing Association All other events require pre - approval from the course instructor Instructor: Non - pre - approved event name: ___________________________________________________ By signing below, I approve this event as eligible for course credit: Signature: Date: Verification of Attendance by event sponsor Event Sponsor Representative: By signing below, I verify that the student named above has been in attendance at this event. Print Name: Signature: Date: Please return this form to your course instructor. Note: Some events require pre - registration and/or have eligibility requirements. It is for attendance.