#http://www.memphis.edu/libraries/about/jobs/pdfs/health.sciences.librarian.2239.final.pdf
University of Memphis University Libraries - Position Description Œ Health Sciences Librarian Description Updated : October 6, 201 5 1 I. DEPARTMENT: University Libraries II. POSITION: Health Sciences Librarian III. CLASSIFICATION: Faculty IV. NAME OF INCUMBENT: Vacant V. POSITION No.: 2239 VI. JOB PURPOSE: The Health Sciences Lib rarian provides leadership and direction for t he overall operations of the Health Sciences Library of the University of Memphis. Located on the Park Avenue Campus in the Community Health Building, t he Health Sciences Library serves the students and faculty of the School of Nursing and the School of C ommunication Sciences and Disorders. As a member of the faculty, he/she participates in the University Libraries™ Col lection Development Program, serves as subject li aison to assigned department(s), participates in the User Instruction Program, and provi des user assistance as a part of the Health Sciences library team . As a faculty member, he/she maintains an appropriate research and publication agenda. The Health Sciences Library is a part of the Libraries™ Branches Department. VII. DUTIES AND RESPO NSIBILITIES A. Assumes responsibilities as a librarian in one of the departments of the University Libraries. 1. Manages the day -to-day operations, personnel, and resources of the Health Sciences Library, one of four libraries comprising the University Libraries ™ system. 2. Represents the University L ibraries with local, regional , and/or national groups on matters related to Health Sciences librarianship. 3. Prepares appropriate reports related to the Health Sciences library, its collections, services, and resources. 4. Maintains good working relationships with appropriate per sonnel within and external to the University Libraries. 5. Participates in providing direct user assistance to the users of the Health Sciences Library including established evening and weekend rotatio ns. 6. Participates in providing organized user instruction as a part of the Libraries™ User I nstruction program. 7. Cooperates and collaborates with other library personnel as needed to accomplish the goals of the division , the department , or the University Li braries. B. Participates in faculty governance and provides input into library decision -making. 1. Participates in faculty meetings and works with colleagues to implement the agreements reached through collective decision -making. 2. Participates in the Libraries™ User Instruction Program which focuses on tea ching library skills to students and faculty with specific emphasis on the effective use of the library catalog and other electronic resources . 3. Stays abreast of current trends and best practices in areas of resp onsibility and takes steps necessary to integrate these into the University Libraries as appropriate. 4. Serves as collection developer and library liaison for assigned subject areas and/or departments . 5. Serves on committees and task forces in the libraries and on campus as a part of his/her roles as a member of the University Librar ies™ faculty. 6. Serves on appropriate committees or task forces and/or holds offices in professional organization or agencies , throughout the state , the region , or on the national l evel as a way of providing service to the profession. University of Memphis University Libraries - Position Description Œ Health Sciences Librarian Description Updated : October 6, 201 5 2 7. Participates in the faculty senate and other campus -wide faculty activities as opportunities present themselves. C. Maintains and documents a program of research and continual learning that promotes his/h er own professional growth and development and contributes toward the achievement of the libraries™ organizational mission. 1. Conducts qualitative and/or quantitative research in subjects and disciplines related to one or m ore aspects of librarianship, the b roader field of information sciences , or other appropriate discipline. 2. Seeks grant funding to support research or experimentation in his/her field(s) of interest. 3. Seeks opportunities to publish research findings in professional publications and to make for mal presentations at professional meetings. 4. Participates in formal and informal programs of continual learning that will enhance professional expertise and contribute to overall effectiveness as a faculty member. 5. Maintains membership and actively particip ates in appropriate professional organizations. D. Performs other duties as assigned. 1. Participates in library -wide projects and activities as needed or assigned . 2. Underta kes other tasks assigned by the Department Head or the Dean of University Libraries. VIII. DIR ECTION RECEIVED: Reports to the Head, Libraries™ Branches . IX. DIRECTION GIVEN: Supervise s the work of the staff of the Health Sciences Library X. JOB SPECIFICATIONS: This is a 12 month, tenure track, faculty position that requires an ALA accredited M.L .S. degree and appropriate, relevant library work experience. Faculty members are expected to conduct research, provide professional service, and publish their work in appropriate professional publications. Subject knowledge in a discipline in the Health S ciences is preferred. Possession of a second graduate degree or substantial continual progress toward completion of a second graduate degree is required to be eligible for tenure and/ or promotion. XI. SPECIAL CONDITIONS: This position requires a varying work schedule and may include some scheduled evening and weekend hours. The specific work schedule may change from week to week depending on the needs of the library and the responsibilities of the position. XII. REQUIRED KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, ABILITI ES, AND CHARACTERISTICS 1. Knowledge of the principles and practices of librarianship, preferably in an academic library . 2. Experience in collection development as a liaison, bibliographer, and/or manager. 3. Experience with providing direct user assistance in a customer focused environment. 4. Experience and comfort with using current technology including computers in a work setting. 5. Ability to supervise the work of others. 6. Good and demonstrable oral and written communication skills. 7. Must have good interpersonal skills and demonstrate a commitment to public service. 8. Ability to work effectively independently as well as as a part of a team in a collegial environment while accomplishing goals and objectives in a timely manner. 9. Must be a forward thinking self -starter who is able to follow through on project and meet deadlines. University of Memphis University Libraries - Position Description Œ Health Sciences Librarian Description Updated : October 6, 201 5 3 10. Must be able to assume responsibility , work on multiple tasks simultaneously, and accomplish goals with little or no supervision. 11. Evidence of potential to maintain an ongoing program of sch ola rship, professional involvement, and professional development at appropriate level s. 12. Ability to work effectively with a highly diverse group of University faculty, staff, students, public, and coworkers in a courteous and professional manner. 13. Must have good problem solving skills and exercise sound judgment in dealing with a variety of issues and situations . 14. Ability to maintain a positive attitude and professional manner while adapting to change. XIII. WORKING CONDITIONS: Technologically oriented acad emic research library devoted to meeting the inf ormati on needs of the students, faculty, and staff of the Un iver sity . Position requires expertise in the various aspects of managing a branch library but also has a significant service component requiring re gular interaction with students, faculty, and the general public in person, by telephone, and/or electronically. Position requires some standing, walking, stooping , bending, and reaching in order to assist library users. Must be able to lift heavy referenc e books and other library resources that might weight up to 20 pounds. May be required to push or pull wheeled book carts filled with books that might weigh as much as 300 pounds . Position requires some travel to participate in professional meetings and co nferences, and /or sometimes to deliver library services at remote sites of the University.