#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/bus/fin.php
FIN Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning FIN Courses FINANCE (FIR) NOTE: Students taking Business courses will be charged an additional $35 per credit hour. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: FIR 7726-35–8726-35. Current Topics in Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate. (3). Consult the online class listings for topics. FIR 6310 - Real Estate Law (3) This course covers law and legal instruments as applied to real estate and is designed to serve the needs of property owners and those engaged in the real estate business. FIR 6320 - Real Estate Finance (3) Terminology, legislation, principles, and analytical techniques pertaining to financing of real estate; perspective of lender, residential borrower, and income property borrower. FIR 6331 - Stock Portfolio Mgmt (3) (Same as FIR 4331). Development and monitoring of investment portfolio by explaining possible investment alternatives; terminology and analysis techniques necessary to fulfull future financial goals. Undergraduate students will assist graduate students in managing a real equity portfolio of $500,000. FIR 6340 - Real Estate Appraisal (3) Basic terminology, principles, procedures, and issues; nature of value, principles of value, appraisal process, market approach, cost approach, capitalization of income approach, gross rent multiplier approach, and appraisal reports. FIR 6350 - Real Estate Investment (3) Principles and practices reviewed and evaluated; investment strategy, ownership forms, tax implications, cash flow analysis, measures of return, risk management, and property selection. FIR 6610 - Cases Managerial Fin (3) Application of tools and principles introduced in previous courses to develop up-to-date problem-solving techniques; cases approached from standpoint of top-level management, utilizing both quantitative and qualitative analysis. PREREQUISITE: FIR 7070 or equivalent. FIR 6720 - Mgmt Financl Institutns (3) Financial policies and decision-making peculiar to financial institutions in the United States; management of institutions consistent with adequate standards of liquidity and solvency. PREREQUISITES: FIR 3410 and FIR 3720. FIR 6721 - Financial Derivative Markets (3) Introduction to futures, options, forwards, and swaps (widely used by investment firms and corporations to manage financial risks), with primary emphasis on their practical application in financial and commodity markets. PREREQUISITE: FIR 3710. FIR 6770 - Security Analysis/Port Mgmt (3) Development of techniques for finding actual worth of securities, primarily stocks and bonds; selection, timing, diversification, and other aspects of supervising investment funds. PREREQUISITE: FIR 3710. FIR 6810 - Prop & Lbility Insur (3) Forms and functions of fire, marine, automobile, general liability, and other types of property and liability insurance; emphasis on business and industrial applications. FIR 6820 - Life & Health Insurance (3) Functions of life and health insurance; emphasis on economic security needs, human behavior, and problems related to death and dying; individual life, health, and annuity contracts and social insurance; concepts in risk selection and regulation. FIR 7070 - Financial Conc/Business (3) (7010). Discounting, risk measurement, valuation, capital budgeting, cost of capital, capital structure, dividend policy, working capital, financial instruments, and markets. FIR 7155 - Global Financial Mgmt (3) Theory and practice of modern financial theory as currently practiced in an interdependent global economy by corporate financial managers, financial consultants, and managers of financial institutions. FIR 7160 - Executive Financial Mgmt (2) Advanced capital budgeting theory and practice including different types of cash flow estimation and analysis, equivalent annual annuity, levelized and unlevelized costs, and product pricing; covers theory and practice of a firm's capital structure, divident policy, stock repurchasing decisions, and financial planning and forecasting. FIR 7170 - Multinational Financial Mgmt (3) Covers financial management practiced by multinational enterprise with emphasis on balance of payments, foreign exchange risk management, global money and capital markets, multinational treasury functions and political risk analysis. FIR 7171 - Intl Financial Markets (3) Analysis of operation and regulation of international financial markets for derivatives (options, futures, and swaps), equities, debt, and currencies. FIR 7173 - Financial Analys/Certification (3) Course is desinged to accomplish three objectives: (1) Prepare students for careers in financial markets, (2) Develop investments skills for person financial planning such as savings and retirement, and (3) Familiarize students with certifications such as CFA, CFP and the content for such exams. FIR 7301 - Contemp Rles Thry/Prac (3) Overview of significant topics in real estate finance, investments, and valuation; lecture and group discussion of key issues in real estate theory and practice. FIR 7302 - Rl Estate Dvlpmt & Sustainblty (3) Analysis of methodologies and market strategies in the evaluation of investments in commercial and industrial land development; identification, conceptualization, and execution of action programs associated with developing energy efficient and sustainable real estate projects, industrial parks, warehouse-distribution centers, and related land uses. FIR 7310 - Sustainable Real Estate (3) course will examine the decisions to minize present and future energy needs, as well as the societal collective decision to promote technological change for lower energy consumption, and to foster market forces that will sustain our environment and our economy. FIR 7320 - Financing Real Est Trans (3) Economic, institutional, and legal issues associated with real estate finance; emphasis on investor and developer financing, and secondary mortgage market. FIR 7350 - Real Est Invest Analys (3) Analytical tools, concepts, and decision rules for real estate asset acquisition and disposition; ownership forms, tax structuring, cash flow forecasting, risk analysis, and decision making. FIR 7410 - Invst Thry Portfol Mgmt (3) Introductory graduate level course in the area of investments and portfolio management; considers qualitative and quantitative risk and return characteristics of various investment opportunities, fundamental valuation models, timing techniques, efficient markets, speculation and hedging, and portfolio theory and practice. PREREQUISITE: FIR 7155 or equivalent. FIR 7648 - Entrepreneurial Finance (3) The purpose of this course is to provide students with an understanding of how new business ventures are conceived, planned, financed and harvested. The course is taught primarily from the vantage point of the entrepreneur, but will also view things from the perspective of investors (Angel investors, Venture Capitalists, etc.). FIR 7710 - Sem Investment Thry (3) Current literature in investment theory and portfolio analysis; topics include statistical techniques of analysis, technical analysis, fundamental analysis, investor perceptions, efficient markets, investigation of risk measurements, portfolio theory and applications, and speculative markets. PREREQUISITE: FIR 7410 or permission of instructor. FIR 7721 - Financial Derivatives (3) Understanding futures, options, forwards, and swaps (widely used by investment firms and corporations to manage financial risk), with primary emphasis on their practical application in financial and commodity markets. PREREQUISITE: FIR 7155 or equivalent. FIR 7724 - Micro-Structure Theory (3) Market microstructure theory; empirical underpinnings, empirical research, and critical contemporary issues. FIR 7725 - Eqty Mkts:Trad/Struct (3) Trading technologies, measuring and controlling trading costs, competition between exchanges and alternative trading systems, global market developments, trading strategies, impact of networks and regulation; simulation software provides hands-on experience making tactical trading decisions in different market structures. FIR 7810 - Adv Financial Mgmt (3) The most significant contributions to the advanced literature on managerial finance. Topics include capital budgeting under risk, capital rationing, cost of capital, capital structure, dividend policy, firm valuation, and working capital management. PREREQUISITE: FIR 7155 or equivalent. FIR 7840 - Quantitative Finan App (3) Application of statistical and quantitative tools to problem solving and decision making in all disciplines of finance. The tools include, but are not limited to, spreadsheet analysis, linear programming, and regression analysis. Extensive use of computer software packages. PREREQUISITE: FIR 7155 or equivalent. FIR 7910 - Problems In Fir (1-6) Directed independent reading and research projects in the finance, insurance, or real estate areas selected by the student with approval of supervising faculty member and Faculty Director. Program of study must be approved prior to enrollment. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. FIR 7911 - Internship in FIR (3) Internship in Finance, Insurance and Real Estate to gain on-the-job experience in real-life environment. Project to be approved and supervised by department faculty. Credit allowed only after acceptance of report. Prerequisite: 3.00 overall GPA and completed 15 hours of coursework. FIR 7996 - Thesis (1-6) Candidates desiring to write a thesis must fill out an application on the approved form after consulting with the major professor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. FIR 8170 - Intl Financial Mgmt (3) (7620). Selected problems in international finance, foreign investment, and the international payments system; gold movements; foreign central banking, and international aspects of money markets; the impact of international financial cooperation. PREREQUISITES: FIR 3410; ECON 3610; or permission of instructor. FIR 8410 - Invst Thry Portfol Mgmt (3) Introductory graduate level course in the area of investments and portfolio management; considers qualitative and quantitative risk and return characteristics of various investment opportunities, fundamental valuation models, timing techniques, efficient markets, speculation and hedging, and portfolio theory and practice. PREREQUISITE: FIR 7155 or equivalent. FIR 8710 - Sem Investment Thry (3) Current literature in investment theory and portfolio analysis; topics include statistical techniques of analysis, technical analysis, fundamental analysis, investor perceptions, efficient markets, investigation of risk measurements, portfolio theory and applications, and speculative markets. PREREQUISITE: FIR 7410 or permission of instructor. FIR 8721 - Financial Derivatives (3) Understanding futures, options, forwards, and swaps (widely used by investment firms and corporations to manage financial risk), with primary emphasis on their practical application in financial and commodity markets. PREREQUISITE: FIR 7410 or 3710 or equivalent. FIR 8724 - Micro-Structure Theory (3) Market microstructure theory; empirical underpinnings, empirical research, and critical contemporary issues. FIR 8725 - Eqty Mkts:Trad/Struct (3) Trading technologies, measuring and controlling trading costs, competition between exchanges and alternative trading systems, global market developments, trading strategies, impact of networks and regulation; simulation software provides hands-on experience making tactical trading decisions in different market structures. PREREQUISITE: FIR 7155 or equivalent. FIR 8810 - Adv Financial Mgmt (3) The most significant contributions to the advanced literature on managerial finance. Topics include capital budgeting under risk, capital rationing, cost of capital, capital structure, dividend policy, firm valuation, and working capital management. PREREQUISITE: FIR 7155 or equivalent. FIR 8820 - Thry/Prac Finan Mgmt (3) Study of the more recent advanced literature of managerial finance and its applications; intensive pursuit of approved individual topics; oral presentations of research papers and cases. PREREQUISITE: FIR 8810. FIR 8840 - Quantitative Finan App (3) Develops an understanding of fixed income markets and interest rate derivatives. Topics include bond mathematics, interest rate models, fixed income securities, corporate debt, and interest rate derivatives; also applies statistical and quantitative methods to solve problems in derivative securities. PREREQUISITE: FIR 7155. FIR 8850 - Seminar In Finance (3) Designed to encourage students in finance to develop a firm understanding of the important theoretical and empirical contributions to the literature and to develop the skills needed to advance knowledge in the field. Topics may vary. May be repeated for credit when topic varies. FIR 8910 - Problems In Fir (1-6) Directed reading and research in the finance, insurance, or real estate areas selected by the student with approval of supervising faculty member and PhD Coordinator. May be repeated for credit when topic varies. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .