#http://www.memphis.edu/libraries/about/jobs/pdfs/adjunct.ris.librarian.pdf
University of Memphis University Libraries - Position Description Created: January 2015 Adjunct Librarian, RIS I. DEPARTMENT: University Libraries II. POSITION: Adjunct Librarian , RIS III. CLASSIFICATION: Temporary Appointment IV. NAME OF INCUMBENT : Vacant POSITION NO. 009983 V. JOB PURPOSE: This temporary faculty position functions as a part o f the team that provides direct user assistance at the Research and Information Services ( RIS ) Desk and delivers individual and group instruction. The incumbent c ontributes to the mission of the University and the University Libraries by helping library user s to identify, access, and interpret information resources that support their teaching, learning, and/or research. S/he will assist with the use an d understanding of all Libraries ™ resources , regardless of format. VI. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES A. Provides direct user assistance a s part of the RIS D esk team. 1. Provides general reference service to users , in-person and by telephone , at the RIS Desk as scheduled , including some evenings and weekends . 2. Provides back -up and assistance for other members of t he RIS team as needed. 3. Provides general reference service to users through Chat and/or email. 4. Assists library users with making the best use of available Libraries ™ resources to support their teaching, learning, an d/or research. 5. Stays abreast of policies, procedures, and practices related to the RIS Desk. B. Participates in the University Libraries™ user instruction program. 1. Teaches formal scheduled classes in the use of Libraries ™ resources and services. 2. Collaborates with classroom faculty, in advance of cla ss meetings, to tailor classes to meet the needs of the particular course. 3. Provides informal instruction in the use of Libraries ™ resources an d services at the RIS Desk and during outreach events . 4. Create s online tutorials and subject guides for Libra ries - and/or research -related resources and topics . 5. Helps develop and implement assessment of instruction -related activities. 6. Stays abreast of policies, procedures, and practices related to the Libraries™ Instruction program. 7. Works with colleagues to conduct tou rs appropriate for a variety of on - and off -campus constituents. C. Other 1. Participates in meetings and training sessions of the RIS Team , department, and Libraries. 2. Stays informed about the current work of the department and Libraries . 3. Maintains and report s statistics relevant to his/her work. University of Memphis University Libraries - Position Description Created: January 2015 Adjunct Librarian, RIS 4. Uses available technology to accomplish tasks related to his/her work . 5. Participates in accomplishing work of the entire department including Government Publications and the Learning Commons. 6. Performs other duties as assigned by the Department Head and/or Dean of University Libraries . VII. DIRECTION RECEIVED Reports to the Department Head , Research and Instructional Services VII I.DIRECTION GIVEN May supervise library assistants and/ or student s workers in the depar tment at the request of the Department Head. IX. JOB SPECIFICATIONS Requires an M.L.S. degree and appropriate, relevant library work experience. X. SPECIAL CONDITIONS This is a limited term position. The n ormal work schedule will entail twenty -five ( 25) hours per week. The specific work schedule will vary depending on the needs of the department. Some evening and weekend hours may be required. Workdays and schedule may vary occasionally to accomplish specific projects. XI. REQUIRED KNOWLEDGE, SKI LLS, ABILITIES, AND CHARACTERISTICS A. Knowledge of the principles and practices of information literacy, user instruction , and reference services. B. Experience in instruction or training as an instructor or trainer. C. Experience using current technology to d eliver or enhance teaching, learning, and/or user services. D. Experience with providing direct user assistance in a customer -focused environment. E. Familiarity with issues involved in developing, delivering, and assessing user instruction. F. Ability to work inde pendently and as a part of a team in a collegial environment. G. Ability to supervise the work of others. H. Good oral and written communication skills. I. Good interpersonal skills and demonstrate d commitment to public service. J. Forward -thinking self -starte r, who is able to cope with change in the work environment. K. Must be able to assume responsibility and accomplish goals with little or no supervision. L. Ability to work effectively with a highly diverse group of faculty, staff, students, coworkers and the gen eral public, in a courteous and professional manner. M. Must have good problem -solving skills and exercise sound judgment in dealing with a variety of issues. XII. WORKING CONDITIONS Technologically oriented academic research library where the RIS team is part of the forward face of the organization. Position has an extensive public service component requiring regular interaction with the general public in person, by telephone, and/or electronically. Position requires some standing, walking, and reaching to access material to be used in responding to user inquiries.