#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/cas/fll.php
FLL Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning FLL Courses LINGUISTICS (LING) LING 7101 - Intro To Linguistics I (3) Nature of language; history of linguistic theory; morphology and syntax, concentrating on languages other than English. LING 7174 - Spec Method/Lang Ed (3) (Same as ICL 7174). Examines theoretical and practical issues relating to teaching of foreign languages K-12 through lectures, reading of current literature, class discussion, guest speakers, etc.; explores role of context in comprehension and learning, listening, reading, oral proficiency, writing, testing, culture, and curriculum. LING 7201 - Intro To Linguistics II (3) Principles and applications of phonology, with major emphasis on languages other than English; historical linguistics, concentrating on Romance and other language families; psycholinguistics, sociolinguistics, semantics. CHINESE (CHIN) CHIN 7101 - Advanced Business Chinese I (3) Basic language skills that are most helpful in business interactions with Chinese-speaking communities with a focus on business vocabulary and expressions. Introduction of Chinese business culture and etiquette. PREREQUISITE: CHIN 3302. CHIN 7102 - Advanced Business Chinese II (3) Further devlopment on business language skills with a focus on writing ability and comprehension/translation of business documents. PREREQUISITE: CHIN 7101 or equivalent. FRENCH (FREN) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: FREN 6791-6799. Special Topics in French. (3). May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. FREN 7470-7479. Special Topics in French Literature. (3). Literary movements, individual authors, or groups of authors of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. FREN 6301 - French Phonetics (3) The theory and practice of French sounds; especially recommended for teachers of French. FREN 6302 - Adv French Grammar (3) Practical, syntactical, and lexical usage of contemporary French. FREN 6412 - 17th & 18th Centuries (3) Classical theater and critical theories; essay, nouvelle, and conte in the eighteenth century. PREREQUISITE: FREN 3301; RECOMMENDED: FREN 3411. FREN 6413 - 19th Century French Lit (3) Survey of literary movements and major authors with readings in all the major genres. PREREQUISITE: FREN 3301. RECOMMENDED: FREN 3411. FREN 6414 - 20th Century French Lit (3) Survey of literary movements and major authors with readings in the novel, poetry, and theater. PREREQUISITE: FREN 3301 RECOMMENDED: FREN 3411. FREN 6415 - Francophone Literature (3) Study of literature written in French in countries other than France. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours with change in content and permission of instructor. FREN 6801 - Cont France/Francophone World (3) Overview of major institutions and cultural aspects of contemporary France and the French-speaking world. PREREQUISITE: FREN 3301 or permission of instructor. FREN 7000 - French for Reading Knowledge (3) Introduction to reading French; intensive drill in recognizing and interpreting grammatical structures, especially those peculiar to scholarly written language; emphasis on vocabulary building and on determining the meaning of words not previously encountered; reading of texts in French at sight or after preparation. No previous knowledge of French required. May not be used to fulfill the degree requirements of any program. FREN 7101 - French/Busn & Econ (3) Basic vocabulary and institutions necessary for dealing in the French business world. Open only to students enrolled in International MBA program. PREREQUISITE: Successful completion of proficiency examination. FREN 7102 - French For Commerce (3) Practical training in various aspects of correspondence and communications necessary for conducting business in French-speaking communities. Open only to students admitted to International MBA program. PREREQUISITE: FREN 7101 or equivalent. FREN 7305 - French Stylistics (3) (6305). Way in which texts produce meanings, development of analytic and interpretative skills with which to read the textuality of literary writing and to determine devices that affect its particular expressiveness; examination of vocabulary, syntax structure, and rhetorical figures as literary convention and as deviation from convention. FREN 7401 - Hist Lang & Old French (3) Development of the French language from Latin to the early 14th century; structure of Old French in preparation for reading medieval texts. Readings include several Lais of Marie de France and la Chanson de Roland. FREN 7402 - Medieval French Lit (3) Major genres and authors of the Middle Ages; readings include the roman courtois of Chretien de Troyes, the Lais of Marie de France, le Roman de la Rose, Aucassin et Nicolette, le Roman de Renard, theatre, and lyric poetry from the trouveres to Charles d'Orleans and Villon. FREN 7421 - French Renaissance (3) Changes in aesthetics, poetics, and philosophy as seen in the writings of l'Ecole Lyonnaise, the Pleiade, Rabelais, Montaigne, Calvin, de Navarre, Etienne Jodelle, and Robert Garnier. FREN 7425 - Classicsm Prior 1660 (3) Aesthetics and poetics of the baroque and preclassical periods: selections from the writings of the precieux and baroque poets, Mairet, Rotrou, Saint-Sorlin, Scarron, Sorel, Cyrano de Bergerac; the theater of Corneille; early comedies of Moliere. FREN 7426 - Classicism Aftr 1660 (3) The impact of Boileau and l'Art poetique in crystallizing classical principles and patterns; masterpieces of Moliere and Racine; representative selections from masters of the other genres in this period of French literature. FREN 7470 - Translation: Acad. and Prof. (3) The main goal of this course is to provide theoretical and practical knowledge useful for those who are currently teaching, or who are later planning to teach, French. Going beyond the basis training needed to begin teaching elementary-level French courses, the course will explore a variety of issues related to pedagogy. FREN 7471 - Seventeenth-Century French Lit (3) Close reading of the canonical texts of seventeenth-century French literature including the principal genres (classical theatre - comedy and tragedy, poetry, novel, and philosophical prose). Focus will be both on the formal properties of these texts and their themes. FREN 7472 - French/Special Purposes: Tech (3) This course will help students become familiar with France's pivotal role in the history and development of modern communication technologies. FREN 7492 - Resch In French Stds (1-6) May be repeated for credit toward the concentration in French up to a maximum of 6 hours. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. FREN 7531 - Age of Enlightenment (3) Comprehensive study of literary trends and innovations within the major genres as related to liberal ideas underlying the philosophy of Montesquieu, Voltaire, Diderot, Rousseau, and their contemporaries. FREN 7532 - Research in Lit and Culture (3-6) Directed readings in the field. Several reports and a research paper will be required. May be repeated for credit toward the concentration in French up to 9 hours. †Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. ‡Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. GERMAN (GERM) GERM 7000 - German for Reading Knowledge (3) Introduction to reading German intensive drill in recognizing and interpreting grammatical structures, especially those peculiar to scholarly written language; emphasis on vocabulary building and on determining the meaning of words not previously encountered; reading of texts in German at sight or after preparation. No previous knowledge of German required. May not be used to fulfill the degree requirements of any program. GERM 7101 - Adv Busn German I (3) German business organization; trade fairs; social security and welfare systems; intensive work with interpreting and composing German business letters and other correspondence; negotiation in German. Course is conducted in German. Open only to students admitted to International MBA program. PREREQUISITE: Successful completion of proficiency examination. GERM 7102 - Adv Busn German II (3) German economy, European Union, European market, import/export, banking, currency. Course is conducted in German. Open only to students admitted to International MBA program. PREREQUISITE: GERM 7101 or equivalent. ITALIAN (ITAL) ITAL 7690 - Research in Italian Studies (3) Individual research on topics in Italian literature and culture. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. JAPANESE (JAPN) JAPN 7101 - Adv Business Japn I (3) Vocabulary and institutions necessary for dealing in the Japanese business world. Maintenance and extension of conversational skills to business context. Course is conducted in Japanese. Open only to students enrolled in International MBA program. PREREQUISITE: Successful completion of proficiency examination. JAPN 7102 - Adv Business Japn II (3) Business Japanese language skills applied to specific fields of business, which include finance, manufacturing, the tourist industry, etc. Course is conducted in Japanese. Open only to students enrolled in International MBA program. PREREQUISITE: JAPN 7101 or equivalent. PORTUGUESE (PORT) PORT 6024 - Brazilian Short Story (3) Accelerated introduction to Portuese for graduate students with a solid command of Spanish; provides an introduction to Brazilian contemporary literature and focuses on Portuguese grammar, emphasizing the differences between Spanish and Portuguese. This course fulfills the language reading knowledge requirement. SPANISH (SPAN) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: SPAN 7790-7799. Special Topics in Hispanic Literature and Linguistics. (3). Selected topics in Hispanic literature and linguistics; may include, but not limited to Latin-American short fiction, nineteenth century Peninsular literature, Latin-American drama, and variety of sociolinguistic studies. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. SPAN 6306 - Applied Span Linguistcs (3) (6501). Current research in linguistics, psycholinguistics, and sociolinguistics and their contribution to second language teaching and second language learning. SPAN 6307 - Adv Grammar/Writing (3) Special problems in Spanish grammar pertaining to the preterite and the imperfect, "ser" and "estar," special verb constructions, the subjunctive, and the definite and indefinite articles; also emphasizes writing styles, vocabulary, and idiomatic expressions. Strongly recommended for MA students who have not taken this course at the undergraduate level. Since this is a 4000/6000 level course it cannot count twice toward graduation. SPAN 6308 - Adv Grammar/Speech (3) Special problems in Spanish grammar pertaining to prepositions, placement of descriptive adjectives, passive voice, reflexive substitute, past participle in absolute constructions, and reflexive pronouns; also emphasizes speech production, vocabulary, and idiomatic expressions. Strongly recommended for MA students who have not taken this course at the undergraduate level. Since this is a 4000/6000 level course it cannot count twice toward graduation. SPAN 6410 - Spanish Lit/Civiztn (3) Survey of literary movements and major figures with readings in literature and civilization. Strongly recommended for MA students who have not taken this course at the undergraduate level. Since this is a 4000/6000 level course it cannot count twice toward graduation. SPAN 6510 - Spanish Amer Lit/Civiz (3) Survey of literary movements and major figures with readings in literature and civilization. Strongly recommended for MA students who have not taken this course at the undergraduate level. Since this is a 4000/6000 level course it cannot count twice toward graduation. SPAN 6563 - Hispanic Literature Genres (3) Study of literary genres with concentration on Hispanic literature; selections from origins to present time; emphasis on textual analysis. Strongly recommended for MA students who have not taken this course at the undergraduate level. It is necessary to clarify that students who have already taken this course as 4563 cannot take 6563 since it will not count toward graduation. SPAN 7101 - Intro Hispnc Cltr/Bus (3) Hispanic community and family, customs, geography, demography of Spain and Spanish America; United States business in Latin America and Hispanic business in the United States. Course is conducted in Spanish. Open only to students admitted to International MBA program. PREREQUISITE: Successful completion of proficiency examination. SPAN 7102 - Comm Hispanic World (3) Hispanic markets and techniques of penetrating them; international advertising, import-export and economic review of Hispanic nations; history and circumstances of the Hispanic corporate world. Course is conducted in Spanish. Open only to students admitted to International MBA program. PREREQUISITE: SPAN 7101 or equivalent. SPAN 7103 - Span Comm/Corresp Doc I (3) Various letters and documents for conducting business among Hispanic nations. Conducted in Spanish. PREREQUISITE: SPAN 7102 or equivalent. SPAN 7201 - Wkshp Spanish Language (3) Idiomatic construction, word formation, culturally connotated vocabulary and modern style techniques through intensive text analysis and writing. RECOMMENDED: SPAN 6302. SPAN 7301 - Spanish Phonology (3) (6301). Principles of analysis of the sound system of human language; general sound system (phonetics) of Spanish; and phonemic contrastive analysis of sound systems of Spanish and English. SPAN 7302 - Span Syntax & Semantics (3) Spanish syntax and compositional semantics: constituent structure, syntactic categories and grammatical relations, prepositional semantics, quantification, modality, and tense. SPAN 7304 - Evolution Of Spanish (3) (6304). General history of the Spanish language based on political and cultural history of Spain and Spanish America; history of sound system, grammatical structures, word borrowings, and changes in meaning. SPAN 7305 - Span Am Dialectology (3) (6305). Fundamental notions of language variation, regional and social varieties, stylistic varieties and linguistic demography of general features of Latin American Spanish with respect to phonology, morphosyntax, and semantics. SPAN 7306 - Spanish in the U.S. (3) Study of linguistic features of Spanish in the U.S. and the sociolinguistic factors (historical, political, sociala nd cultural) that affect U.S. Spanish. SPAN 7420 - Medieval Span Lit (3) (6420). Reading of Old Spanish; Medieval Spanish literature from Mozarabic lyric through La Celestina. SPAN 7421 - The Golden Age (3) Don Quixote and other classic works of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. SPAN 7430 - 18th/19th Cent Span Lit (3) (6430). Romantic and post-romantic poetry and drama; costumbrismo and rise of regional novel, realistic novel, and naturalistic novel. SPAN 7431 - 20th Cent Peninslr Lit (3) A look at different aspects of the literary culture of this century through various genres (poetry, novel, theatre and film). Special attention dedicated to Modernism, the Civil War, Literature during the Franco years and Postmodernism. SPAN 7451 - Studies Spanish Culture (3) Literary history of Spanish autonomous regions as viewed through important writers; emphasis on regional dialects, character, economy, and culture; readings and discussions in Spanish. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. RECOMMENDED: SPAN 6410. SPAN 7452 - 19th-20th Cent Hisp Cult/Lit (3) Literary developments and major cultural events affecting Spain and Latin America, including issues pertaining to the question of national identity, modernismo, the Generation of 1898, the narrative of the Mexican revolution, and Hispanic avant-garde artistic movements. SPAN 7453 - Studies Latn Am Culture (3) Literary survey of social issues that affect perceptions of Latin America, its peculiar problems and its social upheaval; readings and discussions in Spanish. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. RECOMMENDED: SPAN 6510. SPAN 7532 - Span American Drama (3) (6532). Development of the drama in Spanish America, with an emphasis on the twentieth century. PREREQUISITES: Permission of instructor. SPAN 7561 - Pre-Cntmp Sp Am Prose (3) Evolution of the Spanish American novel and short story from their beginnings through early twentieth century. SPAN 7562 - Cntmp Sp Am Prose Fctn (3) Representative Spanish American novels and short stories of the twentieth century since 1940. SPAN 7591 - Seminar Sp Amer Lit (3) Topics in Spanish American literature designed to be of special interest for the advanced graduate student. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. SPAN 7691 - Rsrch Hispanic Studies (1-6) May be repeated for credit toward the concentration in Spanish up to 12 hours. SPAN 7692 - Research in Lit and Culture (3-6) Directed readings in the field. Several reports and a research paper will be required. May be repeated for credit toward the concentration in Spanish up to 9 hours. †Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. LANGUAGES AND LITERATURES (LALI) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: LALI 6010-29. Special Topics in Foreign Literatures. (3). Topics are varied and announced in online course listings. LALI 6441 - Dante (3) Vita Nuova and Divina Commedia; presented in English. LALI 6493 - Contemporary French Lit (3) Emphasis on widely translated, well-known works by major French writers; presented in English translation. LALI 6890 - Literary Criticism (3) Study of the history and theory of literary criticism as exemplified by texts selected from various literary traditions. PREREQUISITE: Six hours of coursework in a foreign language at the 3000 level or above. LALI 7780 - Indiv Studies Busn Lang (1-3) Directed individual study in selected areas of language and culture chosen in consultation with instructor. May be repeated for a maximum of 10 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. †Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. ‡Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .