#http://www.memphis.edu/driven-by-doing/riverwarriors.php
River Warriors - Driven by Doing - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Driven by Doing Home Driven by Doing River Warriors Driven by Doing Success Stories Universal Research The Next Big Thing Tipping the Scales River Warriors Media Room UofM Magazine River Warriors A UofM student group works to put trash in its rightful place — and in the process becomes the largest student-led group of its kind. By Greg Russell Most members of the UofM student group the Memphis River Warriors aren't aware of the rich — and often quirky — history of McKellar Lake, but who can blame them? Most Memphians aren't. For instance ... In the summer of 1960, Elvis Presley (with his newfound wealth) purchased a powder blue ski boat and headed — where else? — to McKellar. "Hey, that's Elvis!" one young lady screamed as the speedboat whistled by. Thousands soon jammed the lake area, which had become an "in" spot for trendsetters in Memphis: sandy beaches, beauty pageants and fancy houseboats made this backwash of the Mississippi River near downtown the place to be and be seen. Even the self- proclaimed "mayor" of McKellar — Marv Shackelford — set a world record after he skied around the lake nonstop for 35 hours, totaling 818 miles. But like music changes over time, so has this once-popular spot — but for the worse. McKellar is now more closely associated with the hashtag #floatingtrash. But the Memphis River Warriors have taken aim at the heaping mounds of trash and in doing so, have become the largest college student-led cleanup organization in the nation. Its 2,200 volunteers have picked up an incredible 100,000 pounds of trash at the lake on selected weekends in the past four years. "The trash comes from all over Memphis," says River Warrior Lance Willinger, a UofM senior who is aiming for a career in sustainable development. "All litter, including what flies out of car windows, gets washed down the storm drains and into ditches and eventually makes its way to McKellar." Millions of gallons of storm water empty into the lake each year, bringing tons of trash that becomes trapped in the water. The litter makes its way into the lake's surrounding woods after flooding. "Once the water goes down, the trash just stays in the forest," says Honors student Rachel Waters, also a Warrior. Willinger says that means old tires, car parts, plastic containers — you name it — accumulate, creating an eyesore. A prosthetic leg even made its way downstream. For their work, the group recently received the prestigious "Mid-South Corporate Neighbor Award for Outstanding Project" from Volunteer Mid-South. "This award is impressive considering that some of the other nominees in this category were Baptist Memorial Hospital, Hilton Worldwide, First Tennessee and International Paper," says group adviser Colton Cockrum, assistant director of the UofM's Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services. While returning the lake to its former glory is likely impossible, Willinger and the Warriors work to at least make it a more pleasant environment. "Picking up trash is an adventure," he says. "Personally, I really enjoy the hard work and getting a little dirty, but what keeps me coming back is the awesomeness of just being around people who share similar interests and concerns about the future of our planet." Driven by Doing Success Stories Universal Research The Next Big Thing Tipping the Scales River Warriors Media Room UofM Magazine Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .