#http://www.memphis.edu/iso/students/newstudentarrival.php
Arriving at a US Port of Entry - ISO - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. International Student Office (ISO) Students Tax Information Insurance Employment Tips Student Information Transfer Students New Students Student Organizations Housing Information Home ISO Students Arriving at a US Port of Entry Arriving at a US Port of Entry... What a Student Can Expect F-1 Visa holding students will encounter multiple requests to show their passport and the I-20 while traveling. Please become familiar with some of the processes to expect Plan Your Arrival You may be refused entry into the United States if you attempt to arrive more than 30 days before the program start date listed on your SEVIS I-20 form. Always Hand-carry Your Documents Do NOT put the following documents/items into your baggage. If your baggage is lost or delayed, you will be unable to present the documents at your port of entry. As a result, you may not be able to enter the United States: Your passport, valid for at least six months beyond the date of your expected stay should always be on your person as you travel. SEVIS Form I-20 must be with you as you process through airports, or at border crossings. Cash – please do not keep cash in your luggage, but instead keep it very securely hidden with you at all times. In addition, it is strongly recommended that you also hand carry the following documentation: Evidence of financial resources; this includes any government sponsorship letter. Evidence of student status, such as recent tuition receipts and transcripts – recommended but not mandatory. Paper receipt for the SEVIS fee, Form I-797, and Name and contact information for your “Designated School Official”, including a 24-hour emergency contact number at the school. For The University of Memphis, you may list Clar Nunis, International Student Advisor as your contact. Regular office hours, please call 901 678-4721, outside of regular office hours, for emergencies only, call campus police services at 901 678-4357 For comprehensive information on procedures for traveling and arriving in the United States, visit: Complete Your Entry Paperwork If Arriving By Air: An online record will be created for you called an I-94. Please be sure to print this I-94 record as soon as you are on campus and able to access a printer. If Arriving By Land or Sea: The Customs &amp; Border Patrol (CBP) Officer at the port of entry will provide the necessary Customs Declaration Forms (CF-6059) and Arrival-Departure Record Forms (I-94) to be filled out upon your arrival. As You Arrive At The Port Of Entry Proceed to the terminal area for arriving passengers. Have the following documents available for presentation: your passport; SEVIS Form (I-20); and Customs Declaration Form (CF-6059). The When asked to provide U.S. address information, the address where you will reside, not the address of any school office. All visitors entering the United States must state their reason for wishing to enter the country. You will also be asked to provide information about your final destination. It is important that you tell the CBP Officer that you will be a student. Be prepared to include the name and address of the school program where you will enroll/participate. Once your inspection is successfully completed, the inspecting officer may possibly: Stamp your SEVIS Form for duration of status (“D/S”) for F visa holders Skip the stamp because the process is migrating to an online record keeping system Stamp the Arrival-Departure Record Form (I-94) and staple it in the passport, if you were issued a paper I-94. (Remember that most students will get an online I-94 record instead) Following Admission Into The United States Students should report to their school upon arrival. Full time enrollment is required in the first semester, and in all subsequent regular semesters, for F-1 visa students. Failure to do so may result in serious consequences. Make Sure To Notify Your International Student Advisor If you were issued any stamps or documents indicating any visa status that is not F-1. Additional Information Secondary Inspection Requirements If the CBP officer at the port of entry cannot initially verify your information or you do not have all of the required documentation, you may be directed to an interview area known as “secondary inspection.” Secondary inspection allows inspectors to conduct additional research in order to verify information without causing delays for other arriving passengers. The inspector will first attempt to verify your status by using the Student and Exchange and Visitor Information System (SEVIS). In the event that the CBP Officer needs to verify information with The University of Memphis, please remember the following information: Name and contact information for your “Designated School Official”, including a 24-hour emergency contact number at the school. You may list Clar Nunis, International Student Advisor as your contact. During regular office hours, please call 901 678-4721, outside of regular office hours, for emergencies only , call campus police services at 901 678-4357, and ask the campus police to contact Ms. Nunis at home. Failure to comply with U.S. government entry-exit procedures may result in your being denied entry to the United States. Under certain circumstances, the CBP officer may issue a “Notice to Student or Exchange Visitor” Form (I-515A), which authorizes temporary admission into the United States. Work with the International Students Office to submit the proper documentation without delay. US-VISIT: All non-immigrant visitors holding visas -- regardless of race, national origin, or religion -- participate in the US-VISIT program, a comprehensive registration system tracking entries to and exits from the United States. For more information: SAVE: The Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) program is a service that helps federal, state, and local benefit-issuing agencies determine the immigration status of applicants. Please note that the SAVE database is essential for both Social Security applications, and for drivers license and state i.d. applications. There is commonly a 10-day lag time between a student’s check-in with their campus in the U.S. and their updated record appearing in the Social Security Administration database. Contact the International Students Office on campus if you have been told that your SAVE record is not visible. Student Information Transfer Students New Students Student Organizations Housing Information FAQs Got a question? Links of Interest More information for International Students Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .