#https://umdrive.memphis.edu/g-training/eCw/Faculty/Newsletter_Fall2014.pdf
CTL Newsletter Volume 1, Issue 1 Fall 2014 Center for Teaching and Learning The Center for Teaching and Learning in- troduced umMedia on August 8, 2014. This grouping of common media services has the purpose to aid online and on - ground instruc- tion. Five services are currently under umMedia, with the potential to expand. E NSEMBLE V IDEO While this system brings an ease of up- ture lies in the eCourseware integration. Ensemble account, you will be able to log into eCourseware and access Ensemble account and videos seamlessly. M EDIASITE Working with media in multiple ways is a strong point of Mediasite. It allows you to up- load, manage, and record media from your ability to capture a presentation (i.e. Power- point ) and the speaker simultaneously. P ODCAST C ENTRAL Podcast Central was one of the first media services on the UoM campus. It is set to retire in Summer 2015. As the first step towards retirement, Podcast will be set to read - only status on December 23, 2014 . Read - only will allow files to be visible and downloaded, but no new content can be added. Current users will be notified with additional information. UM MEET (A DOBE C ONNECT ) Web conferencing is provided by Adobe Connect. Specifically, Connect Meeting has been licensed. The use of this product allows classes, or small groups, to meet synchronous- ly online with up to 100 participants. S EEVOGH - ing system. It gives you the ability to conduct live, multi - person video conferences from any camera - enabled laptop or tablet. A highlight is the ability for the host and participants to share their computer screens, in addition to their webcam. Media Services for Teaching & Learning A CCESS UM M EDIA , R ESOURCES AND W ORKSHOPS AT : Fall 2014 eCourseware Debuts New Features, Role Over the summer, four items were tested and installed in eCourseware to add to the faculty and student experience. E MBEDDED L IBRARIAN This role has been created for a librarian to field questions about research, library us- age and help students identify resources. Librarians can access Discussion sections of your course, but NOT the Gradebook . Content can be viewed, but not edited. To request a Librarian to be added to your course, submit a Service Desk ticket or call the umTech Service Desk at 901.678.8888. V IDEO N OTE Video Note enables you to create video recordings from your webcam and insert them through HTML Editor's Insert Stuff option, and anywhere video attachments are supported within D2L (i.e. Discussions). E NSEMBLE V IDEO This integration provides a simple way for educators to upload media, access their existing Ensemble Video media libraries, and publish single videos and video playlists into their course, without leaving D2L. W IGGIO This tool enables group communication and collaboration. Using Wiggio, you can hold group discussions, assign tasks to group members, poll members, share calendars and schedules, upload and manage group files, and communicate using live conference calls, video conferences, chat rooms, texts, emails, and voice mail. Wiggio can be found within your course navigation bar. R ESOURCES AND S UPPORT Information on each of these products can be found on umTech Training ( http:// ) under eCourseware for Faculty . M ISSION The mission of Technology Coaches is to EMPOWER students with the ABILITY and nology resources. H OW IT W ORKS Students are placed in a team according to their current classification. This allows them to share common student experiences and meet people at the same point in their college career. Embedded Librarian Ensemble Video Video Note Wiggio eCourseware Updates for Fall 2014 C OACHES W ORK WITH S TUDENTS BY : locating tutoring resources online course navigation software/hardware recommendations and much more S IGN UP I NFORMATION FOR S TUDENTS : techcoaches/ Students Have New Opportunity for Technology Coaching Adobe Agreement Brings Software to Wider Audience An innovative service agreement be- tween TBR and Adobe has made it possible for Adobe Acrobat Pro and the Creative Cloud (CC) service to be installed on University owned computers . The agreement also gives the UoM access to future Acrobat Pro and CC versions as they are released from the vendor. The UoM Adobe Software ( http:// memphis.edu/umtech/software/adobe ) site has information on how to take advantage of this program. Submit a request for all other Adobe soft- ware via the Software Request Site ( http:// software.memphis.edu ). Gliffy Tool in umWiki Allows Ease in Diagram Creation Using umWiki ( https:// umwiki.memphis.edu ) , the ability to create professional - quality flowcharts and organiza- tional charts is now a possibility with the in- tegration of Gliffy ( ). New diagrams are added as attachments to pages. This means that all of your data is stored in the same manner as any other con- tent in your wiki. If you have backup proce- dures and network security setup for Confluence, all of these configurations will automatically apply to any Gliffy diagrams you create. Information on using Gliffy within umWiki can be found on the umTech Training page for Gliffy ( training/gliffy ). SAS and SPSS Updates in umWare This summer brought updates to the SAS and SPSS software within umWare. um- Ware ( ) is a re- source that allows faculty and students to ac- cess various applications that would normally only be available on campus. SAS, now available version 20. SPSS has been upgraded to version 20 as well. S IGN U P T ODAY I NFORMATION S ECURITY T RAINING L EARN ABOUT I NFORMATION S ECURITY AT THE U NIVERSITY AND BEST PRACTICES REGARDING U NIVERSITY AND GENERAL INFORMATION . M ONDAY , S EPTEMBER 8 TH 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM R EGISTER AT L EARNING C URVE ( HTTP :// LEARNINGCURVE . MEMPHIS . EDU ) Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) - Faculty support had previously been done through the Advanced Learning Center. Starting in January 2014, a transition to the Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) took place and is under Information Technology Services. CTL has a renewed commitment to supporting fac- ulty in technology that enhance education through the engagement of students and teaching. The CTL will host more opportunities for discovering/learning new technologies that encourage student success. Our workshops can be found on the Learning Curve training registration website ( http:// learningcurve.memphis.edu ). After logging in, select Center for Teaching and Learning . We continue to add to our catalog of workshops. Currently, eCourseware Essentials for Beginners, Ensemble Video, and Mediasite are on the calendar. In the Fall, sessions looking at more advanced fea- tres of eCourseware tools will be offered. http:// memphis.edu/umtech/ctl . Center for Teaching and Learning University of Memphis 3720 Alumni Drive 100 Administration Bldg. Memphis, Tennessee 38152