#http://www.memphis.edu/financialaid/student_employment/sejobs.php
Federal Work Study Positions - Financial Aid - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Financial Aid Undergraduate Graduate Law Scholarships Student Employment Student Employment Pay Ranges/Payroll Dates Forms and Handbooks Regular Positions Federal Workstudy Positions International Students Home Financial Aid Student Employment Federal Work Study Positions Federal Work Study Positions PLEASE READ: You must be awarded Federal Work-Study to work one of these jobs. If you are not sure that you are awarded log into the myMemphis portal and click on the Accounts tab and look under Financial Aid Awards for Award Year 2015-16 to see if you have been awarded or contact the Student Employment Office and provide your U ID number (not Social Security Number). If you are an international student under an F-1 visa, you are not eligible to work under Federal Work-Study. You must be enrolled at least half-time (6 credit hours-Undergraduate/Law, and 5 credit hours-Graduate) to be eligible to work on-campus for the Fall, Spring, and Summer semesters. If you are currently working as a Federal Work Study employee in a department, you cannot work for another department at the same time. Also, you cannot work under Federal Work Study and Regular Student Employment at the same time. You may work up to 37.5 hours a week, but it is up to the department to determine how many hours a week you can work. Also, it is up to you and the department to ensure that your work schedule does not interfere with your class schedule. After reading over the job list, if you see a department you are interested in, please contact that department for an interview. You may take the copy of the job list with you. The hiring department will provide an employment application, if needed. NOTE: Some departments list student employment openings on their own web sites. This information last revised: November 4, 2015. Semester Needed: Fall 2015/Spring 2016 Date Needed: October 13, 2015 Department: Criminal Justice Location: McCord Hall / Room 311 Job Description: Basic office work: Answering phones, taking message, copying, organizing supplies, running errands, and other duties as instructed. Help needed Tuesday/Thursday 11:30-4:30p.m. Please email resume and class schedule to apply. Duties: Typing, computer knowledge, copying, running errands, and answering phones. No. of Students Needed: 1 Federal Work-Study Student Employee Hours: 10 Pay Rate: $7.25 Contact Person: Victoria Tardugno E-mail: vcrynlds@memphis.edu Contact Phone: 901-678-2737 Fax Number: 901-678-5279 Semester Needed: Fall 2015 Date Needed: 08/26/2015 Department: Campus Recreation Location: Campus Rec – Room 128 Job Description: Has experience in refereeing multiple sports, such as flag football, soccer, volleyball, and basketball. Strong interpersonal skills, the ability and readiness to work under pressure, good decision-making skills, and maintain a professional approach to all situations. An interest in sports and recreation is key with a current knowledge of sports rules or the willingness to learn officiating protocols for all types of sports. Duties: See Job Description No. of Students Needed: 5 to 10 students Hours: 5 to 15 hours per week Pay Rate: $7.25 per hour Contact Person: Jonathan Duncan, Coordinator Brittaney McGrew, Intramural Specialist E-mail: jduncan1@memphis.edu ; bdmcgrew@memphis.edu Contact Phone: (901) 678-2802 Fax Number: (901) 678-2167 Semester Needed: Fall 2015 Date Needed: August 24, 2015 Department: Campus School Location: 535 Zach Curlin, Memphis, TN 38152 Job Description: Campus School is seeking to hire federal work study students to tutor elementary grades 1-5 in reading for the Fall, 2015 semester. Excellent written and verbal skills required Basic technology skill beneficial. Education Majors only need apply. Duties: Computer Knowledge, Filing, Copying. No. of Students Needed: 5 Federal Work-Study Student Employees Hours: Up to 20 Hours Per Week Pay Rate: $10.00 Per Hour Contact Person: Rebecca Scott E-mail: rhscott@memphis.edu Contact Phone: 901-678-2285 Fax Number: 901-678-4235 Semester Needed: Fall 2015 Date Needed: August 17, 2015 Department: Child Development Center Location: 3875 Tiger Paw So. Job Description: Assist lead teachers with children's activities and supervision. Prefer Early Childhood Education major. Must pass TBI background check. CPR and First Aid helpful. Duties: No. of Students Needed: 2 Federal Work-Study Employees Hours: 20 Pay Rate: Depends on experience Contact Person: Donna Burrow or Margaret Scott E-mail: dburrow@memphis.edu Contact Phone: 901-678-5059 Fax Number: 901-678-8849 Semester Needed: Ongoing Date Needed: ASAP Department: ITS Service Desk – Technical Student Assistant Location: 100 Administration Bldg Job Description: Accurately document all phone calls using the Online ticketing system. Troubleshoot technical issues over the phone and face-to-face. Possess excellent customer service skills, dependable, and self-motivated. Maintain 2 central IT Tigerlan labs (University Center Tech Hub &amp; Library Learning Commons). IT majors preferred. Shifts are: 7a-11a; 11a-3p; 3p-7p; 7p-11p; 11p-7a. Duties: Typing. Computer Knowledge, Running Errands No. of Students Needed: 20 Federal Work Study Employees Hours: 20 hours per week Pay Rate: $7.25 per hour Contact Person: E-mail: Contact Phone: no call please Fax Number: Semester Needed: Ongoing Date Needed: ASAP Department: Client Support Services (Hardware Technical Assistant) Location: 100 Administration Building Job Description: Maintain 2 central IS Tiger-LAN Labs (University Center Technology Hub – Room 265, and Library Learning Commons) and University Smart Classrooms. Demonstrated superior customer service attitude! Minimum of one year hardware and software experience with PC. Demonstrated troubleshooting skills. Ability to interact with staff, administrators and faculty at all levels of computing sophistication. Hours needed, Mon-Fri 7a – 11a, 11a – 3p, and 3p – 7p; Sat 9a – 12p. Note: must have Federal work-study award for 2015-2016 for this position. Duties: Typing, Computer Knowledge, Running Errands, Answering Phones No. of Students Needed: 2 Federal Work Study Employees Hours: 20 hours per week Pay Rate: $7.50 per hour Contact Person: E-mail: Contact Phone: Fax Number: Semester Needed: Ongoing Date Needed: Immediately Department: Computer Science Location: Dunn Hall, Rm. 226 Job Description: The Networking Research Lab has NSF funded projects on Internet monitoring and design. Interested students can email their transcript and resume to lanwang@memphis.edu . The requirements are: (1) GPA of at least 3.0; (2) Obtained A from both COMP1900 and COMP2150; (3) can work for at least one year; (4) Knowledge about networking, operating systems (esp. UNIX), and (5) Some system admin. experience is a plus. For more information about the research projects, please go to and . Duties: See above job description No. of Students Needed: student worker Hours: 10+ per week Pay Rate: $10.00 per hour Contact Person: Lan Wang E-mail: lanwang@memphis.edu Contact Phone: 901-678-2727 or 901-678-1546 Fax Number: 901-678-1506 Student Employment Pay Ranges/Payroll Dates Forms and Handbooks Regular Positions Federal Workstudy Positions International Students Financial Aid Forms Check your myMemphis account for missing documents. Financial Aid Checklist Some things you need to know to receive financial aid Frequently Asked Questions Some of the most common financial aid questions Links of Interest Some important links to get you started Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/4/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .