#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/events/homecoming.php
Homecoming - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About Events Upcoming Photo Gallery Go to the Game Signature Events Distinguished Alumni Awards Faculty &amp; Staff Awards Homecoming Tigers Around Town Home UMAA Events Homecoming Homecoming Homecoming 2015 - "Let the good times roar" Schedule of Events: "Let the Good Times Roar" Homecoming Parade &amp; Pep Rally Friday, November 6, 5:30 pm UofM Main Campus " Laissez Les Bons Temps Rugir! " Enter your organization to participate in the Homecoming Parade and help us light the night by incorporating your best glow-in-the-dark attire and float decorations. Share the fun with the crowd by throwing neon goodies! Immediately following the Parade, join us on the Student Plaza for a True Blue Pep Rally. Click here to register for the parade. For more information, contact kjfalk@memphis.edu or at 901.678.2905. True Blue Tailgate Saturday, November 7, 4:00 pm Tiger Lane - Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium Join the Alumni Association, Tiger Scholarship Fund, M Club and the Athletic Department for a tailgate in Tiger Lane. The cost is $8 for alumni members and $10 for non-members and includes food and drinks. For more information, contact alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.2586. Memphis Tigers vs. Navy Midshipman Saturday November 7, 6:00 pm Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium Join us as the Memphis Tigers take on Navy for the first time in our program's history. Additional Homecoming Events: Young Alumni True Blue 5k Sunday, November 1, 2:00 pm UofM Campus Kick off Homecoming Week with the Ninth Annual Young Alumni True Blue 5k! Click here to register. Registration fee: $30. Packet Pick-Up: Sunday, November 1, 12:00 noon. For more information, contact m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461 . Class of 1965 Reunion &amp; Golden Homecoming Reception Wednesday, November 4 Anfernee "Penny" Hardaway Hall of Fame - 570 Normal Street The Alumni Association and Half Century Club invites all graduates of 50 years or more to a Golden Homecoming Dinner honoring the Class of '65. Guests may enjoy a wine reception, dinner and induction ceremony at 5:30 pm. The cost is $20 per person. For more information, contact semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043. Bluff City Bash Friday, November 6, 7:00 pm Alumni Mall The Memphis community is invited to this free concert with featured artists, B.O.B. and Jeremih, sponsored by Student Activities Council. No ticket required. Memphis Tigers Basketball Exhibition Game vs. LeMoyne-Owen Friday, November 6, 8:00 pm FedEx Forum Cheer on our Men's Basketball Team after the Homecoming Parade and Pep Rally! Pouncer's Pals Walk Around the Field Saturday, November 7, Time TBD Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium Members of Pouncer's Pals are welcome to walk around the field with their special guest before the start of the Homecoming game against Navy. Time is still to be determined. Pals attending the event will be given two game tickets (one for each Pal and a guest). For more information or to RSVP, contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Herff College of Engineering Alumni Chapter Homecoming Tailgate Saturday, November 7, 4:00 pm Tiger Lane - Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium (Tiger Lane spots E74 &amp; E75) Join Engineering Alumni for a tailgate before our Tigers take on the Navy Midshipmen! For more information, contact semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043. PMBA Alumni Club Homecoming Tailgate Saturday, November 7, 4:00 pm Alumni Tent | Tiger Lane - Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium Join PMBA Alumni for a tailgate before our Tigers take on the Navy Midshipmen! PMBA Alumni will have tables inside the main alumni tent on Tiger Lane. Cost: $8 for members and $10 for non-members. For more information, contact semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043. Need a ride to the Homecoming Football Game? Take the Blue Line! Why worry about parking and traffic when you can take The Blue Line to the Liberty Bowl? The Tigers host Navy on November 7. The Blue Line Shuttles will pick up at the west end of the Central Lot. The shuttles to the game are free and open to anyone with a UofM ID or a UofM Alumni Association Membership Card . The Blue Line will run until Kickoff, and one hour after the game. Kick-off: 6:00 pm. Homecoming 2014 View photos from Homecoming 2014! Events Upcoming Photo Gallery Go to the Game Signature Events Distinguished Alumni Awards Faculty &amp; Staff Awards Homecoming Tigers Around Town Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .