#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/cas/foreign.php
Foreign Languages - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Foreign Languages Foreign Languages Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures Foreign Languages Major (B.A.) Program objectives for a B.A. in Foreign Languages are: (a) have functional control of the appropriate fundamental language skills for the principal language of the major. For modern languages, these include speaking, listening, reading, and writing. For ancient languages, these include reading, reciting in a standard scholarly reconstructed pronunciation, and the ability to analyze grammatical structures in detail; (b) be able to describe and critically evaluate the cultural assumptions and points of view of the targeted culture(s) of their principal language of concentration; (c) Be able to describe and appreciate the interplay of literature, language, history, and culture in the principal language of concentration. A. University General Education Program (41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. B. College and Degree (B.A.) Requirements (12-16 hours) The College and Bachelor of Arts requirements are in addition to the University General Education Program requirements and are listed above. C. The Major (24-33 hours) Successful completion of one of the following concentrations: 1. A single-language concentration in French, German, Italian, Japanese, Latin, or *Spanish: 24 upper division semester hours. 2. A two-language concentration chosen from Chinese, French, German, Greek, Italian, Japanese, Latin, Portuguese, Russian, and Spanish: 27 upper division semester hours with a minimum of 9 semester hours in each language. 3. A three-language concentration chosen from Chinese, French, German, Greek, Italian, Japanese, Latin, Portuguese, Russian, and Spanish: All three language concentrations require prior consultation with the approval of the department chair. Plans will normally include at least 33 upper division semester hours to include at least 12 semester hours in each of two languages plus approved course work in a third language. NOTE: With the approval of the Head of the Classics Section, up to 6 credit hours in upper division Classics courses may be applied toward a concentration in Greek or Latin. Foreign Language majors who minor in International Business are encouraged to include Advanced Composition and Conversation (6 hours) and two courses for commerce (6 hours) as part of their major. * Students with a single-language concentration in Spanish must take SPAN 4410, 4510 and 4563. D. Electives Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120. E. Foreign Languages Minor Completion of 18 semester hours consisting of (1) courses numbered 1020, 2010, and 2020 (or their equivalents) in the foreign language in which upper division hours are to be taken, and (2) 9 upper division semester hours in one of the following languages: Chinese, French, German, Greek, Italian, Japanese, Latin, Russian, or Spanish. Students placing directly into 2010 or higher on the Foreign Language placement exam may complete the requirements for the minor by either: (1) applying for retroactive credit for 1020 and any subsequent courses out of which they have placed; or (2) completing additional upper-division hours to bring the total number of hours for the minor to 18. Typical 4-Year French Concentration Sequence Freshman Year ENGL 1010 3 ENGL 1020 3 MATH* 3-4 Nat. Sci./Math/B.A. 3-4 Social/Behavioral Science* 3 Social/Behavioral Science* 3 Elective 3 Humanities* 3 FREN 2010 3 FREN 2020 3 Semester Totals 15-16 hrs 15-16 hrs Sophomore Year COMM 2381 3 Elective 3 Elective 3 Elective 3 Natural Science* 4 Natural Science* 4 ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 FREN 3302 3 FREN 3301 3 UD FREN 3 Semester Totals 16 hrs 16 hrs Junior Year History* 3 History* 3 Fine Arts* 3 Elective 3 Elective 3 UD FREN 3 UD FREN 3 UD Social Science/B.A. 3 UD elective 3 Elective 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 15 hrs Senior Year UD FREN 3 UD FREN 3 UD FREN 3 UD elective 3 Elective 3 UD elective 3 UD elective 3 Elective 4 UD elective 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 13 hrs Total Hours: 120-122 Total Hours Required for Graduation: 120 *Must satisfy University General Education Program Requirement Typical 4-Year Spanish Concentration Sequence Freshman Year ENGL 1010 3 ENGL 1020 3 MATH* 3-4 Nat. Sci./Math/B.A. 3-4 Social/Behavioral Science* 3 Social/Behavioral Science* 3 SPAN 2010 3 SPAN 2020 3 Elective 3 Humanities 3 Semester Totals 15-16 hrs 15-16 hrs Sophomore Year COMM 2381 3 UD elective 3 Fine Arts* 3 Elective 3 Natural Science* 4 Natural Science* 4 UD SPAN 3 UD SPAN 3 ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 UD SPAN 3 Semester Totals 16 hrs 16 hrs Junior Year History* 3 History* 3 UD SPAN 3 Elective 3 Elective. 3 Elective 3 Elective 3 UD Social Science/B.A. 3 UD elective 3 SPAN 4563 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 15 hrs Senior Year Elective 3 SPAN 4510 3 SPAN 4410 3 UD elective 3 UD SPAN 3 UD elective 3 UD elective 3 Elective 4 Elective 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 13 hrs Total Hours: 120-122 Total Hours Required for Graduation: 120 *Must satisfy University General Education Program Requirement College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .