#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/ccfa/jour.php
Journalism - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Journalism Journalism DAVID ARANT, PhD Chair Room 300, Meeman Journalism Building 901.678.2401 JOSEPH HAYDEN, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies 901.678.4784 E-mail: jhayden@memphis.edu I. The Department of Journalism offers the Master of Arts degree in Journalism. In addition to the residential master’s program, the Department offers its MA in Journalism online to distant students. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MA Degree Program Students in the MA program may take courses in advertising, news, new and emerging media, public relations, and visual communication in keeping with their needs and interests. The curriculum is designed for undergraduates interested in advanced study, practicing professionals looking to deepen their knowledge and sharpen their skills, workers changing careers, and those who anticipate completing doctoral programs. Students should consult with the coordinator of graduate studies and with faculty advisors in designing individual course plans. Program objectives are: (1) understanding and application of First Amendment principles and the law appropriate to professional practice, the history and role of professionals and institutions in shaping communications, and the diversity of groups in relationship to communications; (2) understanding the concepts and being able to apply theories in the use and presentation of images and information; (3) developing the ability to work ethically in pursuit of truth, accuracy, fairness and diversity; (4) developing the ability to conduct research and evaluate information by methods appropriate to the communications professions in which they work; and (5) cultivating the ability to write correctly and clearly in forms and styles appropriate for the communications professions, their audiences, and the purposes they serve. A. Program Admission and Prerequisites Applicants to the program are evaluated three times a year on or around March 1, October 1, and June 1. Students may be admitted for the fall or spring semesters or for the summer session. Admission to the journalism program is competitive. Multiple criteria are considered and include official GRE or MAT scores, cumulative grade point averages, relevant employment history in the form of a resume, and a personal goal statement. B. Program Requirements Courses and credit hours. Students may complete their degrees with (a) a minimum of 30 hours of graduate credit including a thesis, or (b) a minimum of 33 hours of graduate credit including a professional project, or (c) a minimum of 36 hours of graduate credit with the acceptance of a paper for publication in a refereed scholarly journal or for presentation at a refereed academic or professional conference. All courses taken for graduate credit must be approved by the graduate faculty of the department. Student work must be completed at a level of performance satisfactory to the graduate faculty. Students must complete all journalism courses with a grade point average of 3.0 or better. Course work taken outside the department must be approved by the student’s advisor. No more than 9 credit hours of coursework may be taken at the 6000-level. Students with graduate credit earned at another institution may petition to have it applied toward their degree requirements at the University of Memphis. Such credit is not transferred automatically and must be approved by the graduate faculty. A maximum of nine semester hours, including up to six hours of journalism credits, earned at another regionally accredited university may be applied toward the master’s degree requirements at the University of Memphis. The Graduate School will not accept courses that have been used to earn a previous degree. Required Courses. All students are required to complete a 12-hour core consisting of JOUR 7050, 7075, and 7100 plus one writing course chosen from JOUR 7015, 7350, or 7420. In addition, students must complete a one-hour pro seminar (JOUR 7001) by the end of their first semester. While the course provides essential orientation to the program, the one credit hour will not count toward the degree. Students are encouraged to prioritize the core courses, and complete them as soon as possible. No more than three hours in either JOUR 7700 or JOUR 7800, but not both, may be applied to the degree. No more than three hours in either JOUR 7600 or JOUR 7650, but not both, may be applied to the degree. All requirements for the degree must be completed in eight years. Courses older than eight years will not be allowed as credit toward the master's degree. Additionally, students who entered the program without an undergraduate degree in journalism and mass communication or a similar field are required to take JOUR 6700, 6702 and JOUR 7000. Master’s Thesis (JOUR 7996, Thesis). Students who anticipate continuing with doctoral study or who are interested in academic research should complete an independent research project culminating in a master’s thesis. A thesis uses the academic research method to examine a phenomenon in mass communication, or to consider a legal, historical, or visual issue related to journalism and mass communication. It must collect original data and analyze it, and discuss how the research fits in with established knowledge. A thesis might use content analysis, survey, experiment, focus groups, in-depth interviews, document analysis, ethnography, legal analysis, historical analysis, or visual analysis. On completion of a thesis, a student will take an oral examination with a three-person faculty committee that assesses the thesis and the student’s broader awareness of theoretical and empirical issues in his or her field. The student must defend both the thesis proposal as well as the final document. He or she is responsible for assembling a committee, which should consist of at least 3 faculty members (a minimum of 2 from Journalism). Students must take 6 credit hours of thesis credit, and cannot count more than 6 toward graduation, but may take more if needed. Graduate assistants on the thesis path may take only 6 hours of thesis credit in their final semester and remain on their assistantship. A thesis might need approval from the Institutional Review Board, depending on the type of research. Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write the thesis. Professional Project (JOUR 7998, Professional Project). Students seeking master’s degrees to enhance career progress may complete a professional project under the direction of a faculty committee. In a project, students create an original work that can be used by a professional outlet. The way a project is completed depends on the type of work being done. Students are expected to complete a project that would be useful in their careers. A professional project can take many forms. It might be a marketing plan, business startup, a communications plan for a nonprofit organization, a series of research-based journalism articles, or a visual creative project. Students will determine the expectations and guidelines for the project with the committee chair. The quality of work in a project is expected to be equal to a thesis. On completion of a professional project, a student will take an oral examination that assesses the project and the student’s broader awareness of theoretical and empirical issues in his or her field. The student must defend both the project proposal as well as the final document. He or she is responsible for assembling a committee, which should consist of at least 2 Journalism faculty; additional outside members are welcome at the students’ choice. Students must take 3 credit hours of project credit, and cannot count more than 3 toward graduation, but may take more if needed. A project might need approval from the Institutional Review Board, depending on the type of research. Courses-only option. Students who elect to complete the 36-credit-hour plan must have a culminating experience. Qualifying experiences are the acceptance of a paper for publication in a refereed scholarly journal or for presentation at a refereed academic or professional conference. III. Graduate Certificate in Entrepreneurial Journalism The Entrepreneurial Journalism Certificate program prepares students to start their own media-related businesses or bring innovation to legacy media organizations. It will emphasize knowledge of business fundamentals, marketing, advertising and public relations strategies for new businesses, and creating digital, multimedia content for media products or promotions. Objectives of this program include: 1) To prepare students for today’s media landscape, which is undergoing unprecedented disruption as new digital technologies and changing economic realities have upended the practices and the business models of traditional media organizations. Students need to be able to understand this upheaval and be equipped to recognize opportunities for new businesses and ways traditional organizations can evolve to meet evolving demands. 2) To equip students with the skills they need not only to start their own media-related businesses but also to work as “intrapreneurs” within existing companies and to initiate and sustain change initiatives. They will learn startup fundamentals such as how to turn ideas into business plans, assess customer needs, pitch investors, and develop marketing, public relations and advertising strategies. 3) Students will hone their ability to use social media and a variety of cutting-edge digital tools necessary to market and create content for new media businesses. A. Program Admission To apply to the Entrepreneurial Journalism Certificate Program, students must submit the following: Cover letter expressing interest in the program and qualifications Resume/CV BA or BS degree transcript B. Program Requirements Completion of 12 semester hours distributed as follows: Required Courses: Total of 6 credit hours JOUR 7100 Entrepreneurial Media (3) JOUR 7300 Social Media Theory and Practice (3) Electives: 6 credit hours chosen from the following: UNIV 7110 Launch Memphis 48 Hour Launch (2) UNIV 7110 LaunchMemphis BarCamp, SocialCamp, MobileCamp (2) UNIV 7110 Business Plan Boot Camp (1) UNIV 7110 Launch Memphis ad hoc mentoring (3) JOUR 7650 Startup Journalism Practicum (3) MGMT 7270 Venture/Bldg/Sustaining a Successful Enterp (3) FIR 7648 - Evaluating/Finance New Projects (3) ACCT 7412 - Legal/Accounting Aspects of Entrepreneurship (3) C. Graduation Requirements In order to graduate with the certificate students must: 1. Complete Certificate Program course requirements within a period of six years with a B or above average. 2. In the semester of graduation, the student must submit the Apply to Graduate form to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the College Director of Graduate Studies by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .