#http://www.memphis.edu/financialaid/student_employment/sestuemp2.php
Regular Student Positions - Financial Aid - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Financial Aid Undergraduate Graduate Law Scholarships Student Employment Student Employment Pay Ranges/Payroll Dates Forms and Handbooks Regular Positions Federal Workstudy Positions International Students Home Financial Aid Student Employment Regular Student Positions Regular Student Positions PLEASE READ: Students currently receiving a graduate assistantship are NOT eligible to work as a regular student employee. Please inquire only if you are NOT currently receiving a graduate assistantship. You must be enrolled at least half-time (6 credit hours-Undergraduate/Law, and 5 credit hours-Graduate) to be eligible to work on-campus. Note: If you are an international student under an F-1 visa, you must be enrolled full-time (12 credit hours-Undergraduate/Law, and 9 credit hours-Graduate) to be eligible to work on-campus during the academic year. The only exception is if it's your last semester, or it's Summer session, or you are doing your thesis or dissertation phase of study, then you may be enrolled less than full-time. You can work for more than one department as long as you don't work over 40 hours a week. It is up to the department to determine how many hours a week you can work. However, you cannot work under Regular Student Employment and Federal Work-Study at the same time. Also, it is up to you and the department to ensure that your work schedule does not interfere with your class schedule. Note: If you are an international student under an F-1 visa, you can only work 20 hours a week during the academic year. The exception to this rule is: (1) it's during school breaks (i.e. Fall break, Spring break, and Summer session), you are allowed to work up to 40 hours a week, or (2) you have special permission for full-time employment in your last semester as part of a coop or internship program. The Student Employment Office will need a copy of this special permission for your file. After reading over the job lists, if you see a department you are interested in, please contact that department for an interview. You may take the copy of the job list with you. The hiring department will provide an employment application, if needed. NOTE: Some departments list student employment openings on their own web sites. This information last revised: November 13, 2015. Semester Needed: Winter/Spring 2015/2016 (and onward) Date Needed: ASAP Department: School of Health Studies Location: TIGUrS Urban Garden Job Description: Contribute to design, implementation, maintenance and expansion of award winning TIGUrS Urban Garden; 6300 sq. ft. of organically cultivated, sustainably managed, culturally diverse vegetables, herbs, fruits and ornamental flowers. Preferred candidate must be passionate about the following: Organic Gardening Sustainability Practices Composting Research Outreach Mother Earth Applicants need demonstrate a history of dependability and be confident with solving problems (sometimes with little instruction). Must have experience adhering to procedures and policies while being a creative and innovative thinker. Applicants must be able to lift up to 50 lbs., be able to safely employ typical gardening implements; i.e. shovel, rake, pruning shears, saws; as well as typical lawn/garden machinery such as a chipper shredder, tiller and so forth (while under supervision,) and be able to reasonably withstand working in various outside conditions such as sustained heat and cold. Please consider class scheduling and academic workload prior to applying for this position. Special consideration will be given to candidates who can work mid-morning hours. To Apply: Send an email including resume/work history to address below. Duties: Planning, Research, Planting, Harvesting, Composting, Organizing, Presentation, Outreach, Manual Labor No. of Students Needed: 2-3 Regular Student Employees Hours: 10 per week maximum Pay Rate: $10 Contact Person: Dr. Karyl Buddington E-mail: kbudding@memphis.edu Contact Phone: 901-679-2359 Fax Number: No Fax Semester Needed: Fall 2015-Summer 2016 Date Needed: ASAP Department: Libraries Emerging Technology Location: Mcwherter Library Job Description: Assist Emerging Technologies Librarian with the development and implementation of University of Memphis Code Library, a repository of iterative code generated by faculty and students. The successful candidate will have a background in code development, familiarity with a git environment, and knowledge of rest API interactions. Candidates are expected to be prompt, able to work independently, and follow directions. Duties include: Assisting in development of API bridge between GitHub and Institutional Repository, Data entry in Institutional Repository, Implementing JSP for repository as time permits. To be considered: Email a resume, cover letter, and 2- 3 reference contacts to cbehles@memphis.edu . Physical copies will not be accepted. Duties: Data entry, programming, maintaining custom applications, troubleshooting hardware and software No. of Students Needed: 1 Regular Student Employee Hours: 12-15 hours per week Pay Rate: $15.00 Contact Person: Cody Behles E-mail: cbehles@memphis.edu Contact Phone: Fax Number: Semester Needed: All Semester Date Needed: October 21, 2015 Department: Physical Plant- Supply Department Location: Herzog - 230 Job Description: Duties will include Moving and lifting furniture and other items. Will need hours of availability, prefer hours between 8am-12pm. Duties: No. of Students Needed: 1 Regular Student Employee Hours: 20 hours Pay Rate: $8.00 Contact Person: James McArthur E-mail: jmcarthr@memphis.edu Contact Phone: 901-678-2817 Fax Number: 901-678-4888 Semester Needed: Ongoing Date Needed: ASAP Department: Bioinformatics Program &amp; Center for Translational Informatics Location: 402 Smith Chemistry Job Description: Basic requirement include: Knowledge of LINUX operating system; some experience as System Administrator; knowledge of programing languages, data structures and relational database. Duties include; Maintaining several LINUX servers, updating operating systems &amp; security packages, installing new software, maintaining custom applications, performing regular backups, troubleshooting hardware &amp; software as needed. Duties: Typing, computer knowledge. No. of Students Needed: 1 Regular Student Employee Hours: 12-15 Pay Rate: $12.00 Contact Person: Ramin Homayouni E-mail: rhomayon@memphis.edu Contact Phone: 901-678-3132 Fax Number: 901-678-0176 Semester Needed: Ongoing Date Needed: Immediately Department: Physical Plant /Sustainability Location: Tiger Bike Shop 3699 Southern Ave. Job Description: The Tiger Bike program is a green initiative funded by the Student Green Fee. Interested students can email their transcript and resume to tigerbike@memphis.edu . The requirement are: (1) Experience in bicycle maintenance is an absolute must, (2) comfortable with public speaking and one-on-one conversation including safety training, (3) ability to create and implement marketing ideas for the Tiger Bike program, (4) great leadership and social skills, (5) must have some, if not all, working hours available between 1-4pm on weekdays, and (6) experience and interest as an avid bicyclists is a plus. Position is for undergraduate student only. For more information about the Tiger Bike Share Program, please go to . Duties: See above job description No. of Students Needed: 1 student worker Hours: 10+ per week Pay Rate: $8.50 per hour Contact Person: Amelia Mayahi E-mail: tigerbike@memphis.edu Contact Phone: 901-678-4201 Fax Number: 901-678-4888 Semester Needed: Fall 2015 Date Needed: 08/26/2015 Department: Campus Recreation Location: Campus Rec – Room 128 Job Description: Has experience in refereeing multiple sports, such as flag football, soccer, volleyball, and basketball. Strong interpersonal skills, the ability and readiness to work under pressure, good decision-making skills, and maintain a professional approach to all situations. An interest in sports and recreation is key with a current knowledge of sports rules or the willingness to learn officiating protocols for all types of sports. Duties: See Job Description No. of Students Needed: 5 to 10 students Hours: 5 to 15 hours per week Pay Rate: $7.25 per hour Contact Person: Jonathan Duncan, Coordinator Brittaney McGrew, Intramural Specialist E-mail: jduncan1@memphis.edu ; bdmcgrew@memphis.edu Contact Phone: (901) 678-2802 Fax Number: (901) 678-2167 Semester Needed: Fall 2015 Date Needed: August 17, 2015 Department: Child Development Center Location: 3875 Tiger Paw So. Job Description: Assist lead teachers with children's activities and supervision. Prefer Early Childhood Education major. Must pass TBI background check. CPR and First Aid helpful. Duties: No. of Students Needed: 2 Regular Student Employees Hours: 20 Pay Rate: Depends on experience Contact Person: Donna Burrow or Margaret Scott E-mail: dburrow@memphis.edu Contact Phone: 901-678-5059 Fax Number: 901-678-8849 Semester Needed: Fall 2015 and Spring 2016 Date Needed: August 28, 2015 Department: Center for Athletic Academic Services Location: Wilder Tower, 6th Floor Job Description: Academic Tutor: Must be available at least 3 days a weeks any time between 8:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. or 5:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. during the week (Friday evenings excluded), semester commitment (includes final exam period), promote good academic standards and tutor as a proponent of academic integrity and honesty as set forth by the university. Must have at least a 3.0 GPA or a B or above in classes to be tutored. Duties: Academic Tutor No. of Students Needed: 12 to 15 Regular Student Employees (every semester) Hours: Hours vary; depends on the rate of requests made by the students. Tutors have worked anywhere between 3 to 15 hours per week. Pay Rate: $8 per hour for undergraduate students; $10 per hour for graduate Contact Person: Ms. Jordan Monty E-mail: jamonty@memphis.edu Contact Phone: (901) 678-5586 Fax Number: (901) 678-4695 Semester Needed: Spring/Summer 2015 Date Needed: 1/5/2015 Department: Campus Recreation - Aquatics Location: Campus Recreation Center Job Description: Lifeguard position open for individuals who are certified as a lifeguard and have current CPR/AED and First Aid certifications. Applications can be submitted without certifications, but certifications must be completed before hiring decisions will be made. Must be able to swim, tread water with legs only, and have excellent communication and customer service skills. Incumbent must be able to react calmly and efficiently during emergency situations. Duties: See above job description No. of Students Needed: 5 Regular Student Employees Hours: 10-15 hours per week Pay Rate: $8.50 per hour Contact Person: Ashley Chism E-mail: amchism1@memphis.edu Contact Phone: 901-678-3461 Fax Number: 901-678-2167 Semester Needed: Ongoing Date Needed: ASAP Department: ITS Service Desk – Technical Student Assistant Location: 100 Administration Bldg Job Description: Accurately document all phone calls using the Online ticketing system. Troubleshoot technical issues over the phone and face-to-face. Possess excellent customer service skills, dependable, and self-motivated. Maintain 2 central IT Tigerlan labs (University Center Tech Hub &amp; Library Learning Commons). IT majors preferred. Shifts are: 7a-11a; 11a-3p; 3p-7p; 7p-11p; 11p-7a. Duties: Typing. Computer Knowledge, Running Errands No. of Students Needed: 20 Regular Student Employees Hours: 20 hours per week Pay Rate: $7.25 per hour Contact Person: E-mail: Contact Phone: no call please Fax Number: Semester Needed: Ongoing Date Needed: ASAP Department: Bioinformatics Program &amp; Center for Translational Informatics Location: 402 Smith Chemistry Job Description: Programmer with basic knowledge of Linux operating system, working knowledge of PHP or Python, MySQL &amp; Perl. Expertise in multiple programming languages &amp; good communication skills. Responsibilities: (1) Designing and developing relational databases, (2) writing scripts to perform calculations on large datasets, (3) designing/developing web-based tools. Duties: Computer programming No. of Students Needed: 1 Regular Student Employee Hours: 15 hours per week approx. Pay Rate: $10.00 per hour Contact Person: Ramin Homayouni E-mail: rhomayon@memphis.edu Contact Phone: 901-678-3132 Fax Number: 901-678-0176 Student Employment Pay Ranges/Payroll Dates Forms and Handbooks Regular Positions Federal Workstudy Positions International Students Financial Aid Forms Check your myMemphis account for missing documents. Financial Aid Checklist Some things you need to know to receive financial aid Frequently Asked Questions Some of the most common financial aid questions Links of Interest Some important links to get you started Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .