#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/ccfa/art.php
ART Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning ART Courses ART (ART) NOTE: The ART courses below require a $20 per credit hour materials fee. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: ART 6010-19. Special Topics in Studio Art. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in online class listings. May be repeated to a maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. ART 6020-29. Special Topics in Art Education. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in online class listings. May be repeated to a maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. ART 7010-19–8010-19. Special Topics in Studio Art. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in online class listings. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours when topics varies. ART 7020-29–8020-29. Special Topics in Art Education (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in online class listings. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours when topics varies. ART 6011 - Mural Painting as Public Art (3) Fundamental principles of painting in the creation of indoor and outdoor murals; various techniques specific to mural painting and the design and creation of murals. ART 6016 - Specialized Studies/InfoDesign (3) The course will address both formal and rhetorical dimensions of information design, providing historical and contemporary examples demonstrating the techniques used by information designers and the purposes served by information design topics. ART 6211 - Writing/Design Process (3) Focus on synthesis of verbal and visual problem-solving methods and use of writing as an integral phase of design process. PREREQUISITES: ART 3213 and 3222 or permission of instructor. ART 6221 - Graphic Dsgn/Print Comm (3) Practical problems in the areas of publication, information, corporate, and promotional design. PREREQUISITES: ART 3213 and 3222 or permission of instructor. ART 6222 - Intrctv Mltimd/Grph Des (3) Introduction to time-based, electronic media in graphics design, impact of electronic interface on visual communication; emphasis on visual design of narrative, commercial, editorial and/or educational multimedia presentations on computer. PREREQUISITES: ART 2223 and admission to Graphic Design concentration. ART 6223 - Special Studies/Graphic Des (3-12) Advanced instruction in electronic imaging, typography, and publication design, 3-dimensional design, corporate and promotional design, or information graphics. May be repeated to a maximum of 12 hours when topics vary. ART 6224 - History Graphic Design (3) Cultural, theoretical, and stylistic aspects of major movements in field of graphic design in Europe and America from the Industrial Revolution to present. PREREQUISITE: Admission to Graphic Design concentration. ART 6314 - Art of The Book (3) Comprehensive study of skills and processes involved in design of traditional and non-traditional book formats; investigates history of the book, the book as aesthetic object and as vehicle for creative expression. PREREQUISITE: ART 3313, 3314, or permission of instructor. ART 6321 - Drawing & Painting I (3) An advanced course in drawing and painting methods with emphasis on transparent watercolor. ART 6322 - Drawng & Paintng II (3) A continuation of Art 6321 with attention given to various mixed media. ART 6331 - Painting III (3) Advanced problems in oil painting, presupposing that the student has mastered basic techniques and is ready for a more experimental approach to the subject. ART 6332 - Painting IV (3) A continuation of Art 6331 with emphasis on development of a personal style. ART 6333 - Painting V (3) Continuation of ART 6332; emphasis on development of personal style. PREREQUISITE: ART 6332 or permission of instructor. ART 6351 - Adv Printmaking I (3) Specialization in one or two printmaking media with emphasis on development of personal imagery and technical skills. ART 6352 - Adv Printmaking II (3) Advanced work in one or two printmaking media with continued development of personal imagery and advanced technical skills. ART 6353 - Com Image Prnt/Photo I (3) Use of digital imaging in one of several output options including inkjet printing, lithography, screen printing, etching, silver and non-silver photographic processes; emphasis on personal expression. PREREQUISITES: Computer course and either ART 2351 or 2701. ART 6354 - Com Imag Prnt/Photo II (1-3) Advanced project using digital imaging; proposal for study to be approved in advance; emphasis on personal expression. May be repeated to a maximum of 6 hours. PREREQUISITE: ART 6353 or permission of instructor. ART 6410 - Art Educ Independ Study (1-3) Theoretical and pragmatic ideas relevant to teaching of art. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. ART 6440 - Analysis of Teaching (4) Advanced methods for art teaching practices in schools. PREREQUISITE: admission to TEP. ART 6511 - Sculpture IV (3) Advanced work in various sculptural media. ART 6512 - Sculpture V (3) A continuation of ART 6511 with emphasis on personal expression. ART 6521 - Ceramics III (3) Introduction to pottery-making, including hand forming and production processes using clays, plaster, and cements. ART 6621 - Workshop In Art I (1-3) Specific art problems as they apply to individual student; emphasis on basic art concepts and creative experience. ART 6622 - Workshop In Art II (1-3) Continuation of ART 6621, providing study of problems appropriate to needs of individual student. ART 6641 - Study & Travel Art (3-6) Travel to important art areas of the world with specialized study under direction of departmental faculty member; research problem assigned and evaluated by major professor required. ART 6650 - Profess Art Practices (3) Development of skills needed for success as practicing professional artist, including portfolio preparation and presentation, marketing, contracts, copyrights, and alternative art careers. ART 6701 - Color Photography (3) Exploration of photographic perception in color; survey of the history and aesthetics of color photography; techniques of color photography with emphasis on color printing. PREREQUISITE: ART 2702 or ART 6002 or permission of instructor. ART 6702 - Photogrphc Mat/Process (3) Primarily an advanced technical course exploring the creative potential in various contemporary photographic materials, processes and techniques; emphasis on aesthetic application of those materials and techniques. PREREQUISITE: ART 2702 or ART 6002 or permission of instructor. ART 6703 - Altn Photogrphc Process (3) Creative potential of archaic and non-traditional photographic processes such as Cyanotype, Gum Bichromate, and Kwik-Print. PREREQUISITE: ART 2702 or permission of instructor. ART 6704 - Photographic Lighting (3) Advanced theory, technique, and equipment used by professional photographers for black and white and color; emphasis on aesthetic application in actual practice. PREREQUISITE: ART 2702 or permission of instructor. ART 6912 - Art Education Residency II (9) Implementing various methodologies, assessing students, classroom management,and classroom discipline. PREREQUISITE: admission to TEP. ART 6914 - Art Education Residency I (5) Implementing various methodologies, assessing students, classroom management, and classroom discipline. PREREQUISITE: admission to TEP. ART 7040 - Problems Graphic Design (3) Issues, theory, and methodology for graphic designers; research of assigned topic, class discussions, and studio projects. May be repeated for maximum of 12 hours when topics vary. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ART 7200 - Photography Seminar (3) Self-assigned visual/conceptual photographic problem in which journal is kept; group critiques and some seminar activities. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours. ART 7201 - Adv Research Phtgrphy (3) Independent work and research in photography. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ART 7240 - Visual Communctn Resrch (3) Group discussion and criticism of individual study problems; emphasis on independent studio research projects as related to general topic in visual communication. ART 7330 - Studies/Two Dimen Media (1-12) Exploration of an original visual arts idea in two-dimensional media. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours credit depending upon recommendation of advisor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ART 7411 - Methods for Elem Art (3) Introduction to skills, methods, and content for teaching a comprehensive art education program in an elementary setting; includes studio and art appreciation activities, emphasizing materials and methods for children's art expression and development. NOTE: May include field experience and background check at student's expense. ART 7420 - Meth K-12 Art Instruct (2) Instructional planning, implementation, and evaluation applied to elementary and secondary school art programs. ART 7421 - Positive Yth Devlp thru Arts (3) Introduction to an asset or strength-based model for promoting positive youth development; investigates exemplary models of collaborative, interdisciplinary, cross-cultural creative arts programs for urban youth; students submit a process portfolio documenting their experiences. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ART 7423 - Methods Art Second Schools (3) Studio activities and related art education issues relevant to artistic development of adolescents; emphasizes multicultural concerns, practical classroom management skills, and a variety of art teaching methods and evaluation systems. NOTE: May require fieldwork and background check at student's expense. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ART 7441 - Art Educ Prof Seminar (3) Development of effective practices for art education; includes analysis and problem solving of art student teaching experience, and creation of professional portfolio. PREREQUISITE: Completion of all other licensure and degree requirements. COREQUISITE: ICL 7912. ART 7550 - Studies/Three Dim Media (1-12) Exploration of an original visual arts idea in three-dimensional media. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours credit depending upon recommendation of advisor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ART 7640 - Studies Computr Animtn (3) Advanced techniques and principles of visual communication in the video animation format. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. ART 7651 - Graduate Studio Sem (1) Student presentation and discussion of current studio work in ceramics, painting, photography , printmaking, and/or sculpture courses at the 6000 or 7000 level. May be repeated once per semester for a maximum of 12 credit hours.Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. ART 7660 - Direct Ind Study (1-12) Individual investigation of special research problems or projects. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours credit upon recommendation of advisor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ART 7710 - Indep Studies B/W Photo (3) Independent exploration of original black and white photographic art ideas and studio techniques. May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours upon recommendation of advisor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ART 7711 - Adv Photography Semnr (3) (6711) Emphasis on finding a personal direction within the student's work, pursuing that direction, and discussing it in class critiques. PREREQUISITE: ART 7003 or permission of instructor. ART 7712 - Photo Portfolio Sem (3) (6712) Student must produce a book of photographs or portfolio (bound by student) that represents a coherent, in-depth picture statement. PREREQUISITE: ART 7711. ART 7770 - Studies Mixed Media (1-12) Explorations of an original visual arts idea in mixed media. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours credit upon recommendation of advisor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ART 7996 - Thesis (1-6) Preparation and defense of a thesis prepared under direction of major professor. Studio Art thesis requires an exhibition. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. ART 8201 - Adv Research Phtgrphy (3) Independent work and research in photography. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ART 8330 - Studies/Two Dimen Media (1-12) Exploration of an original visual arts idea in two-dimensional media. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours credit depending upon recommendation of advisor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ART 8550 - Studies/Three Dim Media (1-12) Exploration of an original visual arts idea in three-dimensional media. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours credit depending upon recommendation of advisor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ART 8660 - Direct Ind Study (1-12) Individual investigation of special research problems or projects. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours credit upon recommendation of advisor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ART HISTORY (ARTH) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: ARTH 6030-39. Special Topics in Art History. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in online class listings. May be repeated to a maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. ARTH 7030-39–8030-39. Special Topics in Art History. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in online class listings. May be repeated to maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. ARTH 6030 - Chinese Art and Culture (3) The course proceeds chronologically, from Neolithic through modern times, and topically in analyzing Chinese visual culture. Topics range from ritual jade and bronze arts to the dynastic art of Quin and Han empires, and from the emergence of Buddhist and Daoist artistic and architectural types to the evolution of secular arts of calligraphy and painting. Other media that will be examined include ceramics, lacquers, and woodblock printing. Art works are examined in their political, social, historical and religious context. ARTH 6035 - The Great Bronze Age of China (3) Topics are varied and announced in online class listings. May be repeated to a maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. ARTH 6037 - Conflict & Culture AmericanArt (3) Design and ornament in Islamic art from the perspective of history, aesthetics, and the creative process. ARTH 6111 - Art/Arch Egypt (3) Pre-dynastic to Late Period. ARTH 6112 - Egypt Art-Old Kingdom (3) Art, architecture, and archaeology, 3000-1500 BC. ARTH 6113 - Egypt Art-New Kingdom (3) Art, architecture, and archaeology, 1500 BC. to 642 AD. ARTH 6119 - Late Antique/Islamic Art/Egypt (3) Pharaonic and Hellensitic roots of Coptic Art, its 3rd and 4th century AD flourishing, place within the larger milieu of the Byzantine Empire's culture and artistic expression, interaction with the Late Antique arts of the Eastern Mediterranean, and influence on the Islamic Art of Egypt. ARTH 6121 - Ancient Art Near East (3) Architecture, sculpture, painting, and the minor arts in Mesopotamia, Anatolia, and Syria-Palestine. ARTH 6123 - Greek Art (3) Architecture, sculpture, and painting from the Bronze Age to the end of the Hellenistic period. ARTH 6124 - Roman Art (3) Architecture, sculpture, and painting from Etruscan Rome to the fall of the Empire. ARTH 6125 - Art/Archaeology Pompeii (3) Pompeii's excavations, art, artifacts, and architecture in reconstructing ancient Roman daily life. ARTH 6129 - Ancient/Medieval Arch (3) Selected topics comparing the architecture of ancient Egypt, the Classical world, and Medieval Europe. ARTH 6130 - Art/Medieval World (3) Architecture, sculpture, and painting, including manuscript illumination, of the Middle Ages; includes Western European and Byzantine traditions. ARTH 6131 - Art/Early Middle Ages (3) Advanced study of the architecture, sculpture, and painting of early medieval period. ARTH 6134 - Art/High Middle Ages (3) Advanced study of the architecture, sculpture, and painting, including manuscript illumination, stained glass, and ivories, of Romanesque and Gothic periods. ARTH 6141 - Early Renaissance Italy (3) Survey of the architecture, sculpture, and painting of Italy, 1300-1510. ARTH 6142 - North Renaissance Art (3) Fifteenth century art in Northern Europe with emphasis on panel painting, manuscript illumination, and printmaking. ARTH 6143 - High Renaissance Italy (3) Sixteenth century art in Italy, highlighting the works of Michelangelo, Raphael, Titian, and the Mannerists. ARTH 6146 - Baroque Art (3) Historical study of the architecture, sculpture, and painting produced in Europe during the seventeenth century. ARTH 6148 - Neo-Class/Romanticism (3) Western European art, ca. 1760-1850, emphasizing painting, sculpture, and art theory. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2102 or permission of instructor. ARTH 6149 - Realism & Impressionism (3) Western European art, ca. 1850-1880, emphasizing painting, sculpture, and art theory. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2102 or permission of instructor. ARTH 6152 - Early Modern Art (3) Movements in Western art and art theory, 1880-1905, that are the foundation of 20th century modernism, especially Symbolism and Post-Impressionism. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2102 or permission of instructor. ARTH 6153 - Cubism Thru Surrealism (3) Modern European art movements from ca. 1905 to World War II; covers Cubism, Expressionism, Surrealism. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2102 or permission of instructor. ARTH 6155 - High Modern Art (3) American and European art and art theory, emphasizing the development of modernism. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2102 or permission of instructor. ARTH 6157 - Contemp Art/Theory/Crit (3) Historical movements, theory, and criticism from 1968 to the present. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2102 or permission of instructor. ARTH 6158 - Modern Architecture (3) 19th century styles, 20th century masters, contemporary developments in architecture, including historic preservation. ARTH 6160 - Architecture & Nature (3) Survey and analysis of spaces in variety of cultures from world history where relationship between the natural and the built environment is healthy. ARTH 6162 - Latin American Art (3) Hispanic arts of the Americas from 1500 to the present, considered in relation to Iberian and Indian traditions. ARTH 6163 - Pre-Columbian Art (3) A survey of the ancient arts of Mexico, Central America, and South America from c. 1000 BC. to European contact. ARTH 6166 - History Of American Art (3) (6167, 6168). American art examined in social, cultural, and historical contexts; presents broad range of creative expression, including fine and applied arts and popular culture, from conquest period to modern developments in American visual studies. ARTH 6181 - Arts Africa/Oceania/Na (3) Survey of arts created by Native Americans of US and Canada, peoples of sub-Saharan Africa, and Pacific islands, examined in relation to their cultural context and heritage. ARTH 6183 - Visual Arts Of Africa (3) Survey of arts of African continent from pre-historic to modern eras; African aesthetic traditions examined in relation to social and cultural contexts. ARTH 6184 - Arts of Colonialism/Empire (3) Major themes in the study of African Diaspora art, artists, and visual culture, specifically the histories of migration, dispersal, and mobility of peoples of African descent both within and outside the continent; aesthetics, race and representation, politics, gender, class differences, sexuality, strategies of resistance, cross-cultural influences, issues of patronage, and cultural identity formation. ARTH 6185 - African American Art (3) Introduction to African American visual expression and culture from Colonial to modern eras, covering fine arts, photography, film, and popular culture. ARTH 6186 - Afr American Diaspora Cinema (3) Visual culture that examines significant themes in US film history focusing on the development of African American cinema, and filmed representations of the African American experience. The history of African American film production is considered within historical, cultural, social, and political contexts. Readings in film criticism and theory examine the development of African American cinema as a particular genre of film and aesthetic expression. Diversity and difference are critical themes in the representation of race, ethnicity, gender, sexuality, and class in cinema, a quintessentially American art form. From an interdisciplinary and comparative perspective, film representative of the broader African Diaspora will also be examined. ARTH 6187 - Af Am Diaspora Photo Culture (3) African American photographic experience from the 19th century to the presient time; exploration of the politics of representation in the history of American photography by examining blacks as subjects, creators, and theorists of a diverse range of visual "texts"; daguerreotypes, photo-essays, installations, and image-text collaborations, and the photographic traditions of portraiture, Colonialist photography, street photography, social documentary, Civil Rights photography, photo-journalism and commercial photography like photographs and magazine advertisements. ARTH 6381 - Art Curatorial Tech (3) Concentrates on curatorial responsibilities and functions, receiving and shipping methods, registration, physical and environmental security, research, conservation, and a study of the art market and publications. ARTH 6660 - Museum Collections (3) (Same as ANTH 6660). Museum collection theory and methods, including collection policy, development, preservation, documentation, and interpretation. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ARTH 6661 - Collections Research (3) (Same as ANTH 6661). Introduces students in object-based disciplines to museum collections research methods and their applications to exhibitions, catalogs, and scholarly publications. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ARTH 6662 - Museum Exhibitions (3) (Same as ANTH 6662). Museum exhibition methods and theory, including research, design, layout, object selection and handling, installation, public programing, and evaluation. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ARTH 6721 - History Photography I (3) Survey of the history and theory of photography since its invention in the 19th century. ARTH 6722 - History Photography II (3) Historical and critical issues in photography from World War I to present. ARTH 7000 - Semn Art/Vis Cult Afr/Afr Dias (3) Interdisciplinary seminar exploring art and visual culture in a diversity of geographical contexts and historical periods. Topics will vary and may include: the arts of post-colonial Africa, contemporary African American art, the festival arts of the Caribbean, or imaging race in nineteenth century European art and visual culture. ARTH 7110 - Adv Indv Stdy Art Hist (3) Historical periods of art history with emphasis on individual research. May be repeated for credit when topic varies. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ARTH 7114 - Intro Coptic Language/Culture (3) Introduction to Coptic, with emphasis on the Sahidic dialect, combined with select readings from authentic texts and a discussion of the use of texts in Coptic iconography. ARTH 7115 - Middle Egyptian I (3) Grammar and translation of hieroglyphs. ARTH 7116 - Middle Egyptian II (3) Readings in hieroglyphs. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 7115 or equivalent. ARTH 7117 - Middle Egyptian Lit (3) Readings and translations of major literature of Ancient Egypt. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 7116 or equivalent. ARTH 7118 - Egyptian Texts (3) Advanced readings and translations of ancient Egyptian texts. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 7116 OR equivalent. ARTH 7119 - Late Egyptian (3) Readings in literature and other texts. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 7116 or equivalent. ARTH 7120 - Grad Prob Medieval Art (3) Selected areas or specific problems in Early Medieval, Romanesque, or Gothic Art. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours when topic varies. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ARTH 7121 - Grad Prob Ancient Art (3) Selected areas or specific problems in Egyptian, Near Eastern, Greek, or Roman Art. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours when topic varies. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ARTH 7122 - Ancient Egyptian Cursive Scrip (3) Reading of select egyptian texts written in hieratic. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 7119 or equivalent. ARTH 7125 - Egyptian Art & Arch (3) Topics and problems in Egyptian art and archaeology. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours when topic varies. ARTH 7130 - Art Hist Methods & Prac (3) History of the discipline along with current research methods. Students develop research presentations in oral and written formats. ARTH 7140 - Grad Prob Renaissance (3) Selected areas or specific problems of Renaissance Art. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours when topic varies. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ARTH 7150 - Grad Prob 19th Century (3) Selected areas or specific problems in Nineteenth Century Art. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours when topic varies. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ARTH 7152 - Grad Prob 20th Century (3) Selected areas or specific problems in Twentieth Century Art. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours when topic varies. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ARTH 7165 - Gr Prob Am Art Anc/Mod (3) Selected areas or specific problems in Pre-Columbian, North American Indian, Spanish Colonial, or American Art. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours when topic varies.Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ARTH 7660 - Dir Indiv Study (3-9) Individual investigation of special research problems or projects. May be repeated upon recommendation of advisor.Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ARTH 7661 - Museum Practices (3) (Same as ANTH 7661). Museum administration, finance, collection management, conservation, education, exhibition design, marketing, and visitor services. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ARTH 7662 - Museums & Communities (3) (Same as ANTH 7662). History and theory of museums, governance, audiences, and current topics in the profession. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ARTH 7669 - Museum Internship (3-6) (Same as ANTH 7669). Structured experience in selected aspects of museum practice. Includes 150 contract hours in museum and colloquium. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: ANTH 7661, 7662 and/or permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ARTH 7900 - Art Historical Fieldwork (3-6) Structured experience in select aspects of fieldwork, including studying objects in museum collections, working with archival material, conducting interviews with artists, or participating in epigraphic or archaeological fieldwork. A minimum of 150 hours (or equivalent) required. PREREQUISITES: Completion of 18 graduate credit hours at The University of Memphis or permission of acadmic advisor or instructor. ARTH 7996 - Thesis (1-6) Preparation and defense of a thesis prepared under direction of major professor. Studio Art thesis requires an exhibition. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. ARTH 8000 - Semn Art/Vis Cult Afr/Afr Dias (3) Interdisciplinary seminar exploring art and visual culture in a diversity of geographical contexts and historical periods. Topics will vary and may include: the arts of post-colonial Africa, contemporary African American art, the festival arts of the Caribbean, or imaging race in nineteenth century European art and visual culture. ARTH 8010 - Arts of Colonialism and Empire (3) The Arts of Colonialism and Empire is a 7000-8000 level seminar course that examines the historical relationship between the dispersal of the African Diaspora and the development of New World arts and visual cultures that have influenced the western world. It focuses on how modernity and visuality were shaped by the forced migration, dispersal, and the continuing mobility of peoples of African descent, both within and outside the continent. Themes of discussion will include aesthetics, race and representation, gender, politics and strategies of resistance, cross-cultural influences, class, and cultural identity formation. (offered in even years). Cannot be repeated. ARTH 8011 - AfricanAmericanCinema: Theory (3) Image, Theory, Criticism is a 7000-8000 level seminar that examines African American film production within historical, cultural, social, and political contexts. Readings in criticism and theory focus on African American cinema as a particular genre of film and aesthetic expression. From a global perspective the course also examines film and filmmakers representative of the broader African Diaspora. (offered odd years). Course is not repeatable. ARTH 8012 - AfricanAmerican Photog.Culture (3) African American Photographic Culture is a 7000-8000 level seminar course that examines the historical relationship between photography and the African American experience. It is an interdisciplinary course useful to a broad range of students interested in the black image and photographs as art, history, and material culture. The course focuses on African Americans as creators and theorists of photographic imagery. The course will also examine the broader picture of photographic traditions in Africa and the African Diaspora. Research projects will include investigation of significant photograph collections in local archives. (offered in odd years). The course is not repeatable. ARTH 8120 - Grad Prob Medieval Art (3) Selected areas or specific problems in Early Medieval, Romanesque, or Gothic Art. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours when topic varies. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ARTH 8121 - Grad Prob Ancient Art (3) Selected areas or specific problems in Egyptian, Near Eastern, Greek, or Roman Art. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours when topic varies. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ARTH 8125 - Egyptian Art & Arch (3) Topics and problems in Egyptian art and archaeology. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours when topic varies. ARTH 8130 - Art Hist Methods & Prac (3) History of the discipline along with current research methods. Students develop research presentations in oral and written formats. ARTH 8140 - Grad Prob Renaissance (3) Selected areas or specific problems of Renaissance Art. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours when topic varies. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ARTH 8150 - Grad Prob 19th Century (3) Selected areas or specific problems in Nineteenth Century Art. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours when topic varies. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ARTH 8152 - Grad Prob 20th Century (3) Selected areas or specific problems in Twentieth Century Art. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours when topic varies. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ARTH 8165 - Gr Prob Am Art Anc/Mod (3) Selected areas or specific problems in Pre-Columbian, North American Indian, Spanish Colonial, or American Art. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours when topic varies.Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ARTH 8660 - Dir Indiv Study (3-9) Individual investigation of special research problems or projects. May be repeated upon recommendation of advisor.Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .