#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/institute/studentshelpingstudents.php
Students Helping Students - Social Work - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Social Work About Undergraduate Graduate People Research Resources Institute Institute Poverty Fact Sheets CAYD MSW-PDI Students Helping Students Annual Symposium 2012 Proceedings 2014 Proceedings Home Social Work Institute Students Helping Students The Students Helping Students Program: 'Response to Intervention' in Higher Education What is Students Helping Students? Students Helping Students, SHS, is a Tennessee Board of Regents grant funded project that began in the 2014-2015 academic school year. Undergraduate students are assessed through reading, writing, study skills, and social emotional screeners. SHS features discipline specific individual or group mentoring provided by Masters-level social work students to at-risk undergraduate social work students. Undergraduate students who participate in the program receive screenings in writing skills, organization skills, study skills, stress, and social emotional support needs. If deficits are identified, the students are offered individual and/or group programming tailored to the student's specific needs. Continuous assessments are conducted to ensure that the students benefit from the programming as well as that programming only continues until the student's needs are met. Weekly group or individual meetings offer an interactive atmosphere for this 12 week program modeled after the RTI instructional process. Program Goals • Improve retention rate • Accelerated progression to graduation • Improve rates of progression to the Masters of Social Work program • Increase undergraduate students' writing skills, reading fluency skills, and study skills • Reduce undergraduate students' stress and increase coping skills Referral Process • Self-referral: email us or come by to set up an appointment for a screening • Advisors: Advisors have the ability to refer any student they feel would benefit from SHS services Groups and Individual Sessions SHS uses a 12 week curriculum that focuses on educational skills and social emotional skills. Current Program Findings The study participant's results indicated success in the short-term goals of improved writing skills, study skills, reading fluency, coping skills, and reduced stress. Additional data identifying the program's effectiveness and the long-term goals of improving retention and accelerated progression to graduation, and improved rates of progression to the master's program are currently being gathered. Current Graduation Statistics • Currently, only 55.7% of college students who enter four year institutions graduate within six years (Ginder &amp; Kelly-Reid, 2013). • Without adequate preparation and supports, students are at risk for drop out or delayed graduation • One study of attrition found that colleges and universities collectively lose $16.5 billion in revenue due to attrition (Raisman, 2013). • Six-year graduation rates for African American and Latino students are only 37.4% and 48.3% respectively (Ginder &amp; Kelly-Reid, 2013). • Dennis, Calvillo, and Gonzalez (2008) found that low social support, low self-confidence, low commitment to school, or a history of low achievement contribute to risk for ethnically diverse students. • In a study of African American college students at a traditionally white university, Schwitzer, Griffin, Ancis, and Thomas (1999) found that students experienced a sense of underrepresentedness, direct perceptions of racism, and hurdles around approaching faculty. • The study sought to use the RtI model to address the academic and social emotional needs of undergraduate students and improve retention, progression, and graduation rates. Significance to Social Work This study represented both a significant contribution to knowledge and a potential solution to the practical problem of college student retention. This pilot study is conducted with social work students. Social work majors are an ideal population for piloting such an intervention because they are a diverse group of students with many risk factors for drop out. Of the current social work majors at the University of Memphis, 84 percent are non-traditional age (mean 29.5), 76 percent are African-American or Latino, and 90 percent are women (Office of Institutional Research, 2013a). The average ACT composite score for new social work majors over the last three years was 19.12 compared to 22.24 for the entire University. The mean family income for new social work majors was $48,299.01 compared to $75,614.40 for the entire University (Office of Institutional Research, 2013b). Faculty Gregory Washington , Principle Investigator (Project Director) Susan Neely-Barnes , Co- Principle Investigator Susan Elswick , Co- Principle Investigator Robin Lennon-Dearing , Co- Principle Investigator Contact Us Office: Browning 111 (please email for office hours as they change each semester) Or Email: studentshelpingstudents@memphis.edu Institute Poverty Fact Sheets CAYD MSW-PDI Students Helping Students Annual Symposium 2012 Proceedings 2014 Proceedings Why Study Social Work? The study of social work prepares you for a career in a strong growth area News Stay connected with current and pressing social work information to students, staff, faculty, and field instructors. SUAPP The Department of Social Work is a part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy. Contact Us Main office and location information. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/14/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .