#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/pdfs/2012symposiumproceedings.pdf
Proceedings of the Department of Social Work Inaugural Symposium The Next Hundred Years in Social Work: Social Work and Engagement for Social and Economic Justice October 25 & 26, 2012 The Department of Social Work at the University of Memphis: In Memphis For Memphis With Memphis 2 | Page Contents INTRODUCTION Forewo 4 Ruby 5 6 AWARDS PRESENTATIONS Aw 7 ABSTRACTS I. Self - Care The Next 100 Years in Social Work: Lessons from 50 Years in Social Work without Burning Out Dr. Charles H. Frost, Mi ddle Tenne 8 Soul - full Social Work: Spirituality and Self - Care 9 Social Worker Self - Care Vicky Valentine - Phillips and Samantha Brin, Universit y of Memphis Department of Social Work, Students Burnout among Professional Social Workers Dr. Kristie Wilder, Abigail Smith, and Jennifer Reynaert, Southern Adventist - 12 II. Ethics L aw and Ethics in Special Education Craig Barnes JD, Memphis Area Legal Services, Inc., Dr. Susan Elswick, University of Memphis Ethics and Advance Directive and End - of - Life Documents .. .14 3 | Page When Prejudice Masquerades as Science . 15 - 16 Ethics 101 Dr. Catherine A. Simmons, University of Memphis, Department of Social III. Health and Mental Health Mental Health for Veterans Mental Health Issues of the Next Century Jo Carter, LMSW Case Management, Inc., Adjunct P rofessor, Rate of Failed Appointments at an Outpatient Psychiatry Clinic HIV/AIDS Knowledge & Attitude Diffe rence among Undergrads in Memphis Dr. Gregory Washington, Leslie Lindsey, University of Memphis . 21 IV. Community Engagement Powerlines Community Network AGAPE Mr. David Jordan, MSW, Executive Director, A GAPE, - 23 Community Engagement in Memphis: Neighborhoods in Memphis Dr. Cynthia Sadler, University of Memphis, Department 24 Senio r Connect: An Innovative Approach to Reaching Out to Seniors - 26 Community and Cultural - Based Wellness Program Targeting African American Males - 28 4 | Page Foreword Ruby Bright, Executive Director of the Women's Foundation of Memphis, delivered an inspired and enthusiastic keynote address at the Inaugural Symposium of the Department of Social Work at the University of Memphis, The Nex t Hundred Years in Social Work: Social Work and Engagement for Social and Economic Justice. Dr. Jan Young, Executive Director of the Assisi Foundation of Memphis, brilliantly brought the theme of the event home during the closing keynote address. Dr. Young energized the audience as she emphasized the role of social work in the social and economic development of Memphis. In addition to the dazzling keynote addresses, the Symposium featured sixteen extraordinary presentations spread across four tracks, and provided the perfect opportunity to come together and recognize excellence in Social Work. Dr. Muammer Cetingok, received the Lifetime Achievement Award in recognition of his legacy and his years of service; the Distinguished Service Award went to Dr. Jero me Blakemore for his role in this community during the years leading the now Department of Social Work; and Megan Epperson was recognized as the Outstanding Graduate from the BA in SW Program at the University of Memphis All events took place on the beauti ful campus of the University of Memphis, where the state - of - the - art facilities provided an exceptional experience for all participants. Dr. Elena Delavega, Assistant Professor in the Department, emphasized the importance of the symposium to the Memphis co mmunity: "The symposium brought together great talent in social services in Memphis to herald the future." She added: "Memphis is an incredibly innovative community, and we are proud to be at the center of this great impulse for the ground - breaking social with the world. We are very impressed with the Memphis social work community and proud to belong to it. The Department of Social Work at the University of Memphis is In Memphis, For Memphis, and With Memphis Steve Soifer, Chair Department of Social Work Elena Delavega, Assistant Professor Department of Social Work Symposium Chair 5 | Page KEYNOTE SPEAKERS Opening Keynote Speaker : Ruby Bright, Executive Director and Chief Administrative Officer the Ruby Bright is the Executive Director and Chief for a Greater Memphis (WF GM). In the past 16 than $5 million supporting 330 programs and services in the greater Memphis area. Since 2004, Bright has helped Memphis to leverage $66.2 million in HOPE VI grants by raising more than $7 million to support the Memphis HOPE human capital development for over 900 former public - housing residents. The Memphis HOPE project is a community supportive services program that addresses the needs of former residents of urban housing developments. B right previously served Funds. Bright has received many leadership awards, including the 2011 International Changing the Face of Philanthropy Award presented by the W the Year Award. 6 | Page Closing Key Note Speaker: Dr. Jan Young, Assisi Foundation, Inc., Memphis Dr. Jan Young, Executive Director of The Assisi Foundation of Memphis , ha s had a distinguished career in education, health care, the military and philanthropy. Dr. Young received her Doctorate of Nursing Science in with honors and was the recipient of the Faculty Award from the University of Tennessee Health Sciences College o f Nursing. She has been the recipient of the Outstanding Alumni of the University of Memphis, College of Nursing award, the University of Memphis Distinguished Alumna Award, and the University of Tennessee College of Nursing Distinguished Alumna Award. Pr ior to joining the Assisi Foundation in 1995, Dr. Young served as Senior Vice President of Operations with leadership accountability for clinical and support services at St. Joseph Hospital. In addition, she has worked as a management consultant, served a s adjunct faculty for the University of Tennessee and University of Memphis in nursing administration, and maintained a private clinical practice. transferred to the Air National Guard. She retired from military service in the Spring of member. As a military member, she received numerous awards and recognitions including the Legion of Merit and Distinguished Patriot Award. As a naturalized citizen, she considers her military service an honor and career accomplishments a miracle. As Executive Director of The Assisi Foundation of Memphis, Dr. Young has overall accountability for th management, community relations, and strategic direction. The Assisi Foundation is a health care legacy foundation formed from the sale of St. Francis Hospital in the 1990s. The guiding princ iples of the Foundation are rooted in the Franciscan tradition. Grants awarded by the Foundation respond to the diverse needs of our community to support health, lifelong learning, social justice, and stewardship of the resources. Since its inception, the Foundation has awarded over one hundred fifty million dollars to not - for - profit organizations in the Greater Memphis area. 7 | Page PRESENTATION OF AWARDS Lifetime Achievement Award ly called by his former students served as faculty member at the University of Tennessee College of Social Work Memphis campus for more than 30 years. He often spoke of the great pride he felt in his former students and their impact in the Memphis communit y and the Mid - South. He was a dedicated teacher, passionate about his role in educating social workers. He will always be remembered fondly by his former students. Distinguished Service Award Dr. Jerome Blakemore, our former Social Work director, ha s made a great impact on the University of Memphis and the community. Dr. Blakemore was a change master in his own rite. He recognized the underserved population in our community and committed himself to making a difference. His volunteer efforts and his g enuine concern for the matriculation of all students will not be forgotten. Outstanding Graduate from the BA in SW Program at the University of Memphis Megan Epperson is recognized for her many years of outstanding service to the Memphis community. Through her professional career, Mrs. Epperson has demonstrated excellence in social work. 8 | Page ABSTRACTS OF THE PRESENTATIONS 9 | Page Title: T he Next Hundred Years of Self - care in Social Work: Lessons from 50 Y ears in Social Work without Burning Out Author: Dr. Charles H. Frost, Middle Tennessee State University Abstract: Statement on the nature of the Project: Over a decade ago I was invited by Middle Tennessee State University to create its first television course and was instructed to make it any topic of my choice. I chose to call the course: How to Live a Wonderful Life! Description of Methods: I have been teaching the course ever since. The first time it was taught live and videotaped. It consisted then of 13 segments, each 1.5 hours long. Then future courses were televised using the tapes from the first sessions. Now it is taught via the elearn online system. Every time it is taught it is evaluated. The confidential evaluations, without exceptio Conceptual Framework: The framework of the course is that the fundamentals on how to live a wonderful life are ageless. We already know the fundamen tals. We now need to apply them. The next hundred years of self - care will simply be a process of implementing the basic truths about life that have been known for thousands of years. Results: Through taking the course students are better prepared to be effective practitioners because they are more skilled at self - care. Implications for Social Work Practice: The Council on Social Work Education needs to acknowledge that courses on self - care are just as essential, if not more so, as courses on research a nd other required areas currently mandated. Biography: Charles H. Frost, PhD, MSW Middle Tennessee State University Dr. Charles Frost received his DSW from the University of California and his MSW from California State University. He is a professor of social work at MTSU. Dr. Frost has numerous publications and presentations on social work education and child welfare. He obtained the largest grant in the history of his university, funding the Tennessee Center for Child Welfare. 10 | Page Title: Soul - full Soci al Work: Spirituality and Self - Care Author: Dr. Gary Schneider University of Memphis Department of Social Work Abstract: Not Available Biography: Gary F. Schneider, EdD, LCSW University of Memphis Dr. Schneider received hi s BS from North Dakota State; his MSSW from Washington Theological Coalition in Washington, D.C.; and his Ed.D. from UT Memphis. He is currently the Director of Field Placement and Community Outreach for the Department of Social Work at the U of M. 11 | Page Title: Social Worker Self - Care: Micro, Mezzo, and Macro Level Implications and Recommendations Authors: Vicky Valentine - Phillips and Samantha Brin, University of Memphis Department of Social Work Abstract: Social workers are in the business of helping oth ers but often times fail to care for themselves. This leads to professional impairment such as burnout, compassion fatigue, stress, and mental health conditions. Through literature review we will identify evidence based practices which promote social wor ker self - care and prevent the deleterious effects of professional impairment. Within Social Work education on the graduate level, emphasis should be placed on stress management techniques. Additionally, students should be exposed to the deleterious effect s associated with the social work profession, including the vicarious traumatization and secondary traumatic stress. Using a holistic approach, we will define and demonstrate methods to effectively practice self - care on the micro, mezzo, and macro level. We will recommend policies and procedures that social service agencies can implement to increase the efficacy of their social workers. We also will provide practical applications and methods for social worker self - care. Not only will these techniques imp rove social worker morale but will also decrease burnout, decrease Biographies: Samantha Brin University of Memphis Samantha Brin is a second year MSW s tudent at the U of M. Samantha helped start a graduate student organization, GO!SW, and is currently the president. She is interning at Rhodes College providing individual therapy to students with various mental health diagnoses. Her clinical interests inc lude anxiety disorders with an emphasis on social anxiety, depression and trauma. Vicky Valentine - Phillips University of Memphis Mrs. Valentine - Phillips received her BSW from Harding and her Massage Therapy Diploma from Concorde Career College. She has wo rked in various social services positions and is currently pursuing her Master of Social Work at the U of M. 12 | Page Title: Burnout among Professional Social Workers Authors: Dr. Kristie Wilder, Abigail Smith, and Jennifer Reynaert, Southern Adventist Universit y Abstract: The current study focuses on the high rates of burn out among professional social workers and the excessive job turnover that is often associated with this stress. In this study the authors assess the self - care of adult learners in the socia l work profession. The target population is professional social workers that are in the Masters in Social Work these graduate students have full time jobs in the social work field and many have families. Research indicates that social workers who experience high levels of burnout tend to jump from job to job, creating high turnover rates within the profession. The literature review examines methods of self - care among soc ial work p rofessionals that are most likely to reduce burn out and decrease job turnover rates. While high stress levels are often found among social work practitioners, the use of self - care strategies may help maintain resiliency. Furthermore, literature within the field of social work education indicates that higher education curriculum should have more emphasis on self - care strategies for social workers. The authors of the current study will examine papers written by students that required them to des cribe how they implemented self - care techniques in their personal and professional lives. This qualitative information will be analyzed to inform ways of including self - care strategies in the development of curriculum for policy, practice, and field course s. This information may be helpful for administrators of other MSW programs looking to include a self - care curriculum into their courses. Learning objectives will focus on identifying areas of need, guidelines for curriculum development, and ways of incorp orating self - care methods into existing MSW programs. Biographies: Kristie Wilder, MSW, JD Southern Adventist University Kristie Wilder received her BSW from Southern Adventist University; her MSW from UT in Nashville; and her JD from the Nashvill e School of Law. She currently works as Assistant Professor at Southern Adventist University. She teaches graduate and undergraduate courses in social work. 13 | Page Title (Continued) : Burnout among Professional Social Workers Authors: Dr. Kristie Wilder, Abigai l Smith, and Jennifer Reynaert, Southern Adventist University Biographies (Continued) : Jennifer Reynaert Southern Adventist University Jennifer Reynaert recently graduated with her Bachelor's of Social Work degree in May, 2011. She is currently a graduate assistant for the School of Social Work at Southern Adventist University in Chattanooga, TN. She is involved with research, student teaching, helping in the development of a community research/counseling center, and organizing the d epartment's Field program. She will graduate with her MSW in August, 2012 with an emphasis in Family/Child Advocacy and Treatment. Abagail Smith Southern Adventist University Abagail Smith recently graduated with her Bachelor's of Social Work degree in Ma y, 2011. She is currently a graduate assistant for the School of Social Work at Southern Adventist University in Chattanooga, TN. She is involved with research, student teaching, and is helping in the development of a community research/counseling center. She will graduate with her MSW in August, 2012 with an emphasis in Family/Child Advocacy and Treatment. 14 | Page Title: Law and Ethics in Special Education Authors: Craig Barnes JD, Memphis Area Legal Services, Inc., Dr. Susan Elswick, University of Memphis Abst ract: Not Available Biographies: Craig P. Barnes, JD Staff Attorney and BJ Wade Fellow - Consumer Division, Memphis Area Legal Services, Inc. Craig Barnes received his J.D. from Saint Louis University School of Law in 2000. He began h is career representing indigent prisoners and handling federal civil rights violations. Awards service following Hurricane Katrina, and received the TALS New Advocate of the Year Award in 2009. Susan Elswick, EdD, MSSW, LMSW, LSSW University of Memphis Dr. Susan Elswick received her BA from Coastal Carolina University in Conway, SC; her SSW from UT Memphis; and her Doctor of Education from the U of M. She is c urrently a clinical assistant faculty and the MSW field director for the U of M Department of Social Work. 15 | Page Title: Ethics and Advance Directive and End - of - Life Documents Author: Eleanor Farber, JD, LCSW Abstract: Not Available Biography: Eleanor Farber, JD, LCSW Eleanor Farber received her BA from Fordham Lincoln Center; JD from New York Law; and her MSSW from UT Memphis. She worked as a political activist and community organizer and practiced law in New York . She currently has a private practice in Memphis and works for Arkansas Hospice, a community - based not - for - profit hospice service. 16 | Page Title: When Prejudice Masquerades as Science Author s : William S. Meyer, MS W, Duke University Medical Center Abstract: Description: Few people know the civil rights struggle of how the diagnosis of homosexuality evolved and was finally deleted from psychiatry's official nomenclature. Over the years, many people suffered severe psychological injury by the very people who were ostensibly there to help them. Some of this tragic legacy continues today. This multi - demonstrate the legacy and implications of Attendees will see a scholarly but compelling power point presentation, view clips of once popular movies, and hear audio in terviews from gay activists and establishment psychiatrists of that era, to see how internalized prejudicial attitudes affect everyone, including those who come asking for help and those who provide treatment. LECTURE OBJECTIVES Attendees will... Learn h ow the diagnosis of homosexuality has evolved within psychiatry's official nomenclature. Understand how social activism compelled psychiatry to examine its reasoning and its methods. Appreciate how internalized prejudicial attitudes affect everyone, includ ing those who come asking for help and those who provide treatment. The history of this presentation: Department of Psychiatry, he was contacted by the US Army, Depar tment of Psychiatry, to make this presentation for their Grand Rounds at the Tripler Medical Center in Honolulu. He has since been an invited presenter for the Grand Rounds for Departments of Psychiatry at Zucker Hillside Hospital, N.Y.; Wake Forest Unive rsity, N.C.; Cooper University Hospital, New Jersey; the University of North Carolina; the University of Alabama, Birmingham; and Virginia Commonwealth University. He has presented for the North Carolina, Maryland and Indiana chapters of National Associati on of Social Workers, the North Carolina Society for Clinical Social Work, the North Carolina Chapter of the American Psychological Association and for a group of mental health clinicians at Ann Arbor, Michigan. He has presented for multiple departments at Duke University and for the Duke/UNC History of Medicine Club, for Soulforce in Philadelphia, for the Boston Institute for Psychotherapy, the American Association for Psychoanalysis in Clinical Social Work in Los Angeles and was a keynote presenter for th e social work department at Smith College. 17 | Page Title (Continued) : When P rejudice Masquerades as Science Author s : William S. Meyer, MSW, Duke University Medical Center Biograph y: William S. Meyer, MSW, LCSW Board Certified Diplomate Duke University Medical Center William Meyer is the Director of Training for the Department of Social Work and is an Associate Clinical Professor in the Department of Psychiatry and OB/GYN at Duke U high - risk obstetrics clinic and has b een a supervisor and team leader of the 3rd - year psychiatry residents for over 25 years. 18 | Page Title: Ethics 101 Author: Dr. Catherine A. Simmons, University of Memphis, D epar tment of Social Work Abstract: Not Available Biography: Catherine A. Simmons, PhD University of Memphis Catherine A. Simmons, Ph.D., LCSW, is an associate professor in the U of M Department of Social Work. Dr. Simmons has over 20 years of social work experience and teaches clinical practice and research courses in the graduate program. Her publications include two books and over 30 professional papers focusing on trauma, v iolence and strengths - based interventions. 19 | Page Title: M ental Health for Veterans Author: Roberta Renee Brown, LCSW, BCD, CFAE, VA Hospital, M emphis, TN Abstract: Mental Health Treatment Initiatives for Veterans A. Statistics of clinical research that reflect the importance of quality, behavioral services P rovided to our Veterans by a collaborative team of care. B. The importance of continuance access to Veteran's care - related presenting issues for Quality delivery of services by the ER social worker and ER case manager. C. The discernment of appropriate disposi tions, and availability of resources or modality o f care upon completion of comprehensive evaluations by a team of emergent D. Disciplines, i.e. triage, nurses, medical assistants, ER physicians, Psychiatrist, and mental Health clinicians (social worker and case manager). E. Appropriations of individual resources; inpatient/outpatient services; emergency housing; Follow - up after ED care; prescribed medications for mood stability; evaluation of risk (intent, safety); available family/social support; etc. F. Conti nuous assessment or follow - up guidelines emergent care visit. G. VA Mental Health Initiatives Biography: Roberta Renee Brown, LCSW, BCD, CFAE VA Hospital Memphis, Tenn. Roberta Brown received her BA from Central State University in Ed mond, Oklahoma and her MSW from Oklahoma. She is currently the Suicide Prevention Coordinator for the VA hospital in Memphis, and works part time as a Psychiatric Therapist II for St. F rancis Hospital. 20 | Page Title: Mental Health Issues of the Next Century Auth or: Jo Carter, LMSW Case Management, Inc., Adjunct P rofessor, U niversity o f Memphis, Dep t. of Social Work Abstract: Research reveals that Americans are living longer. There has been an increase in the average life span in the United States from 47 years in 1900 to more than 75 years in the Many older Americans are faced with such challenges as physical limitations, mental illness, medical and related health care, b ereavement and other losses associated with later life. Unrecognized or untreated conditions can be fatal and even severe to older Americans. These challenges affect older Americans in ways in which they would never admit that they have been impacted. T he Journal of American Geriatric Society reports that little time is spent on mental health care for the elderly patients despite heavy disease burdens. In addition, little time is spent discussing mental health issues with older patients who are rarely r eferred to a mental health specialist, even if the patient shows symptoms of severe depression. By educating the community, family members, and the elderly patient about symptoms that may be experienced, the social and economic conditions of the patient w ill improve as The shift of caretakers for an older population is having an impact on the conceptual framework for social workers. It is no longer just an implication for social work practic e or senescence, but now a social work perspective for research, social services and treatment. Mental Health Facilities play a significant role in treatment and prevention. This workshop will address ways in which mental health providers can assist in h elping older Americans cope and address isolation, grief and other issues. In addition, this workshop will allow participants an opportunity to share their views and participate in strategies that will help make this stage of an older American life more p roductive and satisfying. It will also engage participants to collaborate with other professionals to integrate the increasing problem of mental health disorders and challenge others. Biography: Jo Carter, MSW Case Management Inc . / Whitehaven Mental H ealth Center Joe Carter received her BA from the U of M and her MSSW from UT Memphis. She has an educational history in Public Administration and Special Education. She currently works for Case Management Inc., and as an adjunct professor in the Social Wo rk Department at the U of M. 21 | Page Title : Rate of Failed Appointments at an Outpatient Psychiatry C linic Author: Dr. Jody Long, University of Tennessee Department of P sychiatry Abstract: Objective The purpose of this study was to analyze reasons for a high er than expected rate of failed appointments at a university outpatient psychiatric clinic. Methods Registration, demographic and scheduling information was obtained through General Electric IDX software and electronic medical records from November 2009 to November 2010. After IRB approval, data was exported from the scheduling system into Statistical Package for Social Sciences, SPSS 17.0 for analysis. The second phase of the study utilized telephone interviews to explore patient reasons for missed appoint ments and addressing missed appointments. Results For the schedule appointments, no show/no call missed appointments were 7% for the faculty clinic patients missed appointments compared to 13 % of resident cases. Cancellation appointments were 22 % for t he faculty cases compared to 31 % of the appointments (mainly cancellations rather than no shows), as opposed to 1 in 5 for private insured patients. For Medicare elderly patien ts, 1 in 20 missed or cancelled appointments compared to younger Medicare disabled patients. Conclusions The department implemented policies to improve the patients show rate for both faculty and residents/students. This included implementing a no - show p olicy, having the licensed clinical social worker assess initial patient phone calls for motivation factors, and designing protocols for scheduling initial appointments. Biography: Jody Long, EdD, LCSW University of Tennessee Dr. Jody Long receiv ed his BA from Mercer; MSW from Georgia, and his Doctoral Degree in Higher Education Adult Learning from the U of M. He is currently an instructor in the Department of Psychiatry at the University of Tennessee. 22 | Page Title: HIV/AIDS Knowledge & Attitude Differen ce among Undergrads in Memphis Author s : Dr. Gregory Washington, Leslie Lindsey, University of Memphis Department of Social Work Abstract: The presentation will describe the results of a study is influenced by ongoing concern and research about HIV/AI DS infection rates, access to care, and survival rate differences between Caucasian and African - American citizens in the southern United States. The study investigated the attitude and knowledge differences between African - American and Caucasian college st udents in Memphis, Tennessee regarding current and future sexual behaviors and safer sex behaviors related to HIV/AIDS awareness, condom use self - efficacy, and safer sex attitudes to provide a better understanding of these phenomena. A convenience sample o f 141 college students enrolled in social science classes from one public and two private universities in Memphis Tennessee were used in this study. The sample was primarily female Caucasians but included African Americans and the majority of the sample in dicated that they were currently sexually active. No racial differences were found in intentions for future casual sex, condom use self - efficacy or attitudes towards safer sex practices. Although the results suggest that for this sample African American c ollege students appear to have internalized safer sex messages to a greater degree than their Caucasian counterparts, both groups reported a lack of consistent safe - sex practices, which may put them at risk for HIV/AIDS. Implications for additional researc h and programs designed to prevent HIV/AIDS are provided. Biographies: Gregory Washington, PhD, MSW, MS, LCSW University of Memphis Dr. Washington received his BS from the University of Illinois; his MS in education from Chicago State; MSW from Clar k Atlanta University; and his Ph. D. from Clark University. He is currently an associate professor at the U of M for the Department of Social Work. He is also deeply involved with the Just Care Family Network in Memphis. Leslie Lindsey University of Memph is Leslie Lindsey is a Master of Social Work student at the U of M. She works with Dr. Gregory Washington as a Research Associate at the Center for the Advancement of Youth Development and with Dr. Gayle Beck at the Athena Project in the Trauma Research an d Recovery Lab. 23 | Page Title: Powerlines Community Network AGAPE Author s : Mr. David Jordan, MSW, Executive Director, AGAPE, Kristee Bell, Director Powerlines Community Network Abstract: Agape Child & Family Services, a nationally accredited Christian - based agency, developed the philosophy of Powerlines Community Network (PCN) in March 2009 2009, Powerlines has gained traction as a vested agency in communities needing to be connected with services throughout the metro Memphis area. Powerlines Community Network, a place - based infrastructure, serves with the mission to connect at - risk communities with the resources and services they need that will help create a more nurtu ring environment for children and families to be successful. Powerlines seeks to be in up to 20 communities by 2015. Agape and its collaborative partners served 7,964 youth and families in FY2011 through Powerlines Community Network in the following comm unities and specific apartment complexes: (1) Whitehaven serving in Bent Tree and Summit Park Apartments. Within three years, Agape plans through PCN will expand similar services to children and families in 3 - 6 additional Whitehaven area apartments. (2) Hickory Hill/Southeast Memphis serving in the Autumn Ridge Apartments, while also offering services at two neighboring apartment complexes. Within three years, Agape plans through PCN to expand similar services to children and families in 6 - 9 additio nal area apartments. (3) Raleigh/Frayser Creek apartments. Within three years, Agape plans through PCN to expand similar services to children and families in 6 - 9 additional Raleigh/Frayser area apartments. Project Objectives: 1. Partner with existing stakeholders in local communities, neighborhoods and sites to understand local needs and design solutions with them ience and above noted survey data received from the community, for any child, birth to 18 years of age. partnering in the three primary focus areas: hope, economic/workf orce development and health. 24 | Page Title (Continued) : Powerlines Community Network AGAPE Author s : Mr. David Jordan, MSW, Executive Director, AGAPE, Kristee Bell, Director Powerlines Community Network 4. Work in partnership with the community and faith institutions 5. Evaluation Biographies: William David Jordan, MSSW Executive Director Agape Child and Family Services (Offices in Memphis & Jackson) Mr. Jordan received his MSSW from UT in Nashville in 1988. Mr. Jordan assumed the leadership of Agape the organization has achieved great success and wide - ranging recognition. The organization has received numero Congressional Award. Kristee Bell Director of Powerlines, Agape Child & Family Services Kristee Bell is a leader with an edge for relationship building and problem solving. She has held director positions at U of M, Office of Congressman Steve Cohen and Leadership Academy. At Agape she oversees Powerlines Community Network where she manages teams and promotes public and private sector initiatives. 25 | Page Title: Community Engagement in Memphis : Neighborhoods in Memphis Author: Dr. Cynthia Sadler, University of Memphis, Department of African American Studies Abstract: Not Available Biography: Cynthia Sadler, PhD University of Memphis Dr. Sadler is the project coordinator of the Health Information Project (HIP) in the Uptown neighborhood. The goal was to develop a participatory process that would engage the community and link its members with health professionals. Dr. Sadler oversees over 20 graduate and undergraduate anthropology students who have participated in this project. 26 | Page Title: Senior Connect: An Innovative Approach to Reaching Out to Seniors Author: William Samuels, LMSW, Jewish Family Service Abstract: Needs associated with individuals who live with the absence of a limb (hand, foot, arm, leg) are pervasive and diverse. Community Interventions have been designed to bring providers from a variety of disciplines to service these needs through action of Community Partnerships. The purposes of this workshop are to dem onstrate how a community intervention for the benefit of individuals with limb loss has been achieved by means of a community partnership; to relate community social work practice to group practice principles (Yalom, 1985); and to advocate for increased pa rticipation by social workers in practice and research. Goals of the Workshop : Participants will become familiar with needs and issues related to the loss of a limb. The concept of Community Intervention, based upon theoretical concepts of Group Work (Ya lom, 1985), will be shown using case studies to have been successfully applied to benefit multiple individuals and families affected by limb loss. An original theory, Augmentation Theory (WSSW 50 th Anniversary Conference, 2007), will be demonstrated as a m eans of extending the scope and duration of a Community Intervention to benefit multiple individuals and families affected by limb loss, through relief efforts from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. In 2004, the amputee support program, Out On a Limb Memphis Area Limb Loss Support (OOAL), was begun. Regular monthly meetings were held for both therapeutic and non - therapeutic content for more than 2 years. Speakers invited to address the group included physicians, nurses, biologists, disability advoc ates, prosthetic providers, law enforcement, and motivational speakers. The success of OOAL as a model of Community Development in Social Work Practice has resulted in the specialty, Limb Loss Social Work; which can be observed in a F.A.Q. URL on the NASW website Help Starts Here ( - wellness/disabilities - tip - sheet - limb - loss - and - social - work - practice.h tml ). In conclusion, it is imperative that social workers in practice as well as in academia take initiatives to document, publicize, develop and extend best practices in their work; and to engage in ongoing research for the benefit of the community. 27 | Page Title (Continued) : Senior Connect: An Innovative Approach to Reaching Out to Seniors Author: William Samuels, LMSW, Jewish Family Service Biography: William Samuels, MSW Jewish Family Service William Samuels received his MSW from Wurzweiler School of Social Work, Yeshiva University. Mr. Samuels is the director of the Senior Connection Program, coordinator of Shalom Taxi Transportation Progr am, coordinator of the Frozen Kosher Home Delivered Meals Program, facilitator of the Annual Senior Resource Fair and the facilitator of Out on a Limb Memphis Area Limb Loss Support. 28 | Page Title: Community and Cultural - Based Wellness Program Targeting African American Males Author: Dr. Jerry Watson, University of Mississippi Abstract: When compared with other racial and ethnic groups, African American men continue to experience a disproportionate number of health dispar ities. Murphy (2000) reports that African American men experience the shortest life expectancy of any other ethnic minority or racial subgroup group including white men, black women, and white women respectively. Black men in every age group up to sixty - five and older continue to experience higher mortality rates than all other racial and ethnic subgroups (Braithwaite & Taylor, 2001). Rational, planned action is needed to begin the process of decreasing health disparities. Plowden (2003) reports that an important step in decreasing this disparity is to comprehend the motivators and obstacles to seeking care. Brawley and Freeman (1999) declare that equal access to health resource would yield equal outcomes regardless of race. Factors that motivate Bla ck men to participate in health related initiatives must be in place. There is a need for this research endeavor because understanding how African American men access health care and medical services can spark the development of new programs, enhance exis ting practices, and reduce or eliminate obstacles and barriers to access consequently impacting the reduction of disparities. There is a dire need for the development of new and innovative social work approaches to mitigate the obstacles and barriers to w ellness faced by African American males. In response to the concerns about the health status and quality of life of Black men in our community, the Ujima Family Wellness Center has developed the SWIM project dedicated to the health and welfare of African American men in South Memphis. The mission of SWIM is to provide the wellness and social services necessary to improve the overall health and well - being of the Black men in our community. SWIM has been developed utilizing the following set of cultural beliefs: 1. We have strengths & we will be successful in our efforts to become healthier; 2. African American Men can & will grow & develop in positive ways; 3. We must pursue healthy & productive means to achieve our goals; 4. Brotherhood means valuing one another & being willing to help one another understanding that no matter how old or how young we are, we can all learn from each other; 5. African American Men are facing a crisis on multiple fronts; 6. African American Men must identify our own problems and solve them o urselves; and, 7. Culture & education are keys to our health & wellness. 29 | Page Title (Continued) : Community and Cultural - Based Wellness Program Targeting African American Males Author: Dr. Jerry Watson, University of Mississippi In addition to onsite services, SWIM provides critical linkages to Memphis area service providers. SWIM is a community - based culturally specific social work intervention conceived by co mmunity stakeholders from the South Memphis community of SoulsvilleUSA in conjunction with social work educators. Community - based Service Learning Moreover, SWIM continues to present service learning opportunities for BSW and MSW students in practice an d research. SWIM represents social work learning opportunities in research, program development, engagement, assessment, planning, social marketing, working with groups and individuals, cultural competency, and fund development. More than volunteerism Ro senberg (2000) reports, service - learning integrates community work with traditional classroom instruction, emphasizing reflection as well as action. It empowers students by creating opportunities to participate in a democratic society in responsible ways. In a real world context, students receive support, encouragement, information, and skills to be effective and confident social workers. SW I M utilizes and promotes the philosophy of self - help, mutual aid, and the historical truth regarding the present sta te of African American men in our community. SWIM services emphasize empowerment through self - determination therefore, activities and services are designed, developed, driven, and delivered by African American Men and for African American Men with the ass istance of others when needed. SWIM activities are designed to fit and focus on the collective strengths, cultural assets, and realities of African American Men. SWIM is deeply rooted in the community with most of the activities taking place in the histo rical J. E. Walker House. SWIM is an important endeavor because introducing African Men to focused and user friendly ways to access wellness services can provide non - traditional educational experiences while reducing obstacles and barriers to access. Bio graphy: Dr. Jerry Watson, PhD, MBA, MSW University of Mississippi Dr. Watson received his PhD in Urban Higher Education from Jackson State in 2006; his MBA in Marketing and Management from Dominican University in 2003; and his MSW in Management and Policy from the University of Illinois in 1997. Dr. Watson currently is an assistant professor of Social Work at the University of Mississippi. 30 | Page © 2012. Department of Social Work, University of Memphis About the Department of So cial Work at the University of Memphis The Department of Social Work resides in the School of Urban Affairs & Public Policy within the College of Arts & Sciences. The Program offers two degree programs. The Bachelors of Arts in Social Work program and the Master of Social Work program are both fully accredited by the Council of Social Work Education (CSWE). Mission The Department of Social Work seeks to be a leader in social work education by: preparing students with cutting - edge social work skills nece ssary to practice in complex settings; creating knowledge through research and engaged scholarship; reducing poverty, inequality, and social and economic injustice through evidence based practices; and addressing the needs of the Mid - South within a global perspective. Vision The vision of the Department of Social Work is to be a leader in social work education by: preparing students with cutting - edge social work skills necessary to practice in complex settings; creating knowledge through research and eng aged scholarship; reducing poverty, inequality, and social and economic injustice through evidence based practices; and addressing the needs of the Mid - South within a global perspective. Diversity Statement The Department of Social Work is committed to e mbracing diversity in every aspect of our functioning and programming. We understand diversity as the intersection of multiple factors including age, class, color, culture, disability, ethnicity, gender, gender identity and expression, immigration status, national origin, political ideology, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, and veteran status. We make a concerted and deliberate effort to include a diverse student body and faculty across all axes of difference. We endeavor to create a welcoming envir onment of inclusiveness and respect for difference not only in background and demographics, but in point of view and opinion.