#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/pdfs/2014symposiumproceedings.pdf
Proceedings of the Department of Social Work 2 nd Symposium Social Work Practice: At the Intersection of Advocacy and Ethics April 11, 2014 The Department of Social Work at the University of Memphis: In Memphis For M emphis With Memphis 2 | Page Contents INTRODUCTION Forewo rd . .. 4 Dr. Lorrai ABSTRACTS Abstract s are presented by category and I. Policy/Lega l How to Effectively Advocate for Children with Disabilities in Public Schools .. 7 - 8 The Affordabl e Care Act, Medicaid Expansion, and the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program: How will they help individuals living with HIV/AIDS? Frances Harper - Mion, BSW , . ... 9 Promoting the Just City: Participatory Action Research with Res idents of Public Housing Kenneth M. Reardon, PhD & Antonio Raciti, PhD, University of Memphis ............... .... . . 10 The Man Behind the Curtain: How to Unmask the Wizard in Political Action Steven Soifer, PhD, LCSW, University of Memphis 1 1 II. Advocacy Is Advocacy a Part of Your Treatment Plan? Best Practices for Incorporating Advocacy Training into Treatment Plans Kim Daugherty, LMSW, Friends For Life; Rachel Brooks, M.S., Friends For Life; Brittney Jordan, MSW May 2014, University of Memphi s 1 2 Tennessee Social Workers and Future Social Workers Attitudes Towards the LGBT Population Robin Lennon - Dearing, PhD, MSW, University of Memphis .. 1 3 - 1 4 Ethical Dilemmas in Reporting Abuse, Neglect, and Exploitation in Long - Term Ca re Facilities William (Zev) Samuels, LMSW, District Long - term Care Ombudsman 1 5 - 1 6 3 | Page III. Health / Mental Health A Fair Chance Ashley L. Annestedt, LCSW & Malissa Duckworth, LCSW . 1 7 Trichotillomania and other Body Focused Repetitive Behavi ors: An Update David Dia, PhD, LCSW, CCBT . 1 8 Bullying - Not A New Problem Desiree Price, LMSW . 1 9 African American Males Gregory Washington, PhD, LCSW 2 0 IV. Ethics How to Thrive When Yo u Get Fired: 50 Years of Ethical Advocacy Dr. Charles H. Frost, Middle Tennessee State University . 2 1 Deinstitutionalization: Its Effects on the Criminal Justice System Stephanie Lovins, BSW Student, University of Memphis 2 2 Ethics: The Basics Catherine Augusta Simmons, PhD, LCSW, University of Memphis 2 3 Ethics, Advocacy, and Education: The Disaster Response Organizing Project Jerry Watson, PhD, MSW, MBA, Tina Roberson, Angela Teasley, Social Work Department, Unive rsity of Mississippi 2 4 - 25 4 | Page Foreword Message from the Department Chair It is with great pleasure that I welcome you to the 2 nd Symposium of the Department of Social Work, Social Work Practice at the Intersection of Advocacy and Ethics. Today we are in a particularly festive mood as we recognize our outstan ding Field Instructors and as we celebrate the accreditation of our MSW Program by the Council on Social Work Education. The Department of Social Work at the University of Memphis has established a reputation for excellence in teaching, research, and enga Warmest Regards, Steven Soifer In addition to Dr. Guti Symposium included f ifteen stellar presentations that spanned four categories: Advocacy, Ethics, Health/Mental Health, and Policy/Legal. The Symposium culminated in a celebration, as the Department of Social recognized its partnered Field Instructors, who work tirelessly to help prepare students for their future in the field of social work. The Department also celebrated the recent accreditation of its MSW program by the Council on Social Work Education. I want to offer a heartfelt thanks to our presenters, our volunteers, and the Center for Research on Women (CROW) at the University of Memphis, without whom this event would not have been po ssible. Elena Delavega, Symposium Chair 5 | Page Key Note Speaker: Lorraine M. Gutiérrez, Arthur F Thurnau Professor University of Michigan School of Social Work Professor Lorraine Gutiérrez ha s a joint appointment with the School of Social Work and Department of Psychology at the University of Michigan and is a faculty associate in American Culture . She is also a member of the SSW Community Organization Learning Community. Her teaching and scho larship focus on multicultural and community organization practice and methods for multicultural education in higher education. She brings to her work community - based practice and research in multiethnic communities in New York, Chicago, San Francisco, Det roit, and Seattle. Current projects include identifying methods for multicultural community - based research and practice, multicultural education for social work practice, and identifying effective methods for learning about social justice. She has publishe d over 30 articles, chapters, or books on topics such as empowerment, multicultural practice, and women of color. Her contributions to undergraduate education have been recognized by the Arthur F. Thurnau Professorship. She is currently one of the editors of the Journal of Community Practice. 6 | Page ABSTRACTS OF THE PRESENTATIONS 7 | Page Title: How to Effectively Advocate for Children with Disabilities in Public Schools Authors: Craig Barnes, JD, Wendi Albert, & J ennifer Mayhem Abstract: Currently many parents/guardians rely upon the public school system as the sole provider of information regarding special education and the rights of students and their families. However, many parents/guardians feel alienated by the school system because the rules and regulations are sometimes too difficult to comprehend or inaccessible. This training is an interactive workshop for students and professionals from a diversity of disciplines who are interested in learning the mos t effective methods of advocating for public school children with disabilities and their parents/guardians. Our purpose is to provide a brief summary of what services public schools must provide to children with disabilities, how those children are identif ied and become qualified for services, and the administrative and legal options available to advocates and parents/guardians of children with disabilities if the school fails to provide those services. As part of a year - long research project, we hope to bridge this gap by addressing the challenges that families in Memphis face, particularly African American families, in successfully participating in the special education process. We conduct trainings targeted for both parents/guardians and professionals w ho work with students with disabilities on developing basic advocacy skills and general knowledge of special education regulations in order to represent the interests of their children in this challenging process. A pretest - posttest single group design is conducted to gage the knowledge gained by participants and an empowerment scale is distributed to measure their levels of empowerment and how that is expressed. This study will provide valuable information about what barriers families can experience, what additional knowledge and skills are needed by the family, and the value of a training targeted to meet the needs of families. This training is part of a collaborative effort of the Partnership for Educational Advocacy and Parity (PEAP), which is comprise d of members from Memphis Area Legal Services, University of Memphis Department of Social Work, and the University of Tennessee Boling Center for Developmental Disabilities. Biographies: Craig P. Barnes, JD Staff Attorney & BJ Wade Fellow - Consumer Divi sion, MALS, Inc. Mr. Barnes received his J.D. from Saint Louis University School of Law in 2000. He began his career representing indigent prisoners and handling federal civil rights Awards and received the TALS New Advocate of the Year Award in 2009. 8 | Page Title (Continued) : How to Effectively Advocate for Children with Disabilities in Public Schools Au thors: Craig Barnes, JD, Wendi Albert, & Jennifer Mayhem Abstract: Biographies: Wendi Albert The University of Memphis Ms. Albert is a Master of Social Work student at the University of Memphis, where she is a ctive in advocacy. Ms. Albert has been invited to provide testimony at the Tennessee Legislature and is completing her internship at Memphis Area Legal Services, Inc. Jennifer Mayhem The University of Memphis Ms. Mayhem is Albert is a student at the Cecil B. Humphreys Scho ol of Law and is currently completing an internship at Memphis Area Legal Services, Inc., where she is involved in a variety of advocacy and outreach efforts for the be nefit of the Memphis community. 9 | Page Title: and the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program: How will they help individuals living Author: Frances Harper - Mion Abstract: Under the 2010 health care reform policy public and private insurance programs will integrate into one health care system to expand comprehensive medical and mental health coverage to uninsured US citizens. However, implementation of these new policies will result in many changes in the current healthcare system of which social workers are familiar. Medical social workers, su ch as those who work with individuals living with HIV are familiar with the program requirements of Medicaid and Ryan White funding, and now must learn the Affordable Care Act (ACA) guidelines . This paper/presentation has three objectives. 1. Evaluate the c overage, exemptions, eligibility, and standards of practice of the three health care programs. 2. Analyze costs and offsets associated with Medicaid expansion and non - expansion for individuals living in Tennessee, Arkansas, and Mississippi. 3. Examine aspects of the ACA, Medicaid, and Ryan White Program that are pertinent to HIV care and their impact on individuals living with HIV. For example, the Ryan White Program is payee of last resort meaning that the patient must not be eligible for other insurance optio ns. Retention in medical care is necessary for individuals living with HIV to maintain their health and medication compliance. This is important because if an HIV positive individual has an undetectable viral load, they less likely to transmit the virus t o their partners. As a chronic disease, HIV positive individuals have specific healthcare needs that dictate that particular services are available. As the ACA and Medicaid expansion (or non - expansion) is implemented social workers must be prepared to ant icipate and resolve potential barriers to care for their patients. Evaluating these three programs, analyzing the expected costs and benefits of the ACA and Medicaid expansion, and examining how these programs will impact a vulnerable population, individu als living with HIV will demonstrate how healthcare policies affect social workers and the people they serve. Biography: Frances Harper - Mion, BSW The University of Memphis LeBonheur Community HIV Network Ms. Mion received her BSW from the University of Memphis in 2004, and is currently pursuing her MSW at the University of Memphis. She is a Medical Social Work Specialist at LeBonheur Community HIV Network. Ms. Mion is also currently a member of the HIV Care and Prevention Council and Membership Commit tee (formerly the Ryan White Planning Council). 10 | Page Title: Promoting the Just City: Participatory Action Research with Residents of Public Housing Author: Kenneth M. Reardon, PhD & Antonio Raciti, PhD Abstract: In 2011, the Memphis Housing Authority inv ited an interdisciplinary team of University of Memphis faculty to work with residents of an aging public housing complex to prepare with support from the U.S. Depart Neighborhood Planning Grant Program, this collaborative effort involving local residents, business persons, institutional leaders, and city housing officials when a majority of the participatory residents voic ed a strong desire to see this historic family housing complex preserved. When the U of M faculty reported these findings to the Memphis Housing Authority, they were fired. When these faculty decided to continue to work with local residents, without compen sation, on a preservation - oriented redevelopment plan that would improve the quality of life within the neighborhood without displacement city officials became incensed! Professors Reardon and Raciti shared the thrills, spills, and chills of pursuing par ticipatory action research with public housing residents whose complex was located in the path of hoped for and expected downtown development. They will describe the role which their oppositional plan played to secure HUD funding to implement their HOPE VI - like clearance plan for this complex. B iograph ies : Kenneth M. Reardon, PhD The University of Memphis Dr. Reardon is Professor of City and Regional Planning and a nationally renowned expert in community organizing, community - based neighborhood planning, and university - community partnerships. He received the American Institute of Certified Planners President's Award for his role in establishing and directing the highly - regarded East St. Louis Action Resear ch Project and more recently has been involved in recovery planning for He is currently involved with the historic Vance Avenue community to prepare and implement a resident - led community transformation plan. Antonio Raciti, PhD The University of Memphis Dr. Antonio Raciti is Assistant Professor in City and Regional Planning at the University of Memphis. Dr. Raciti obtained his PhD in Urban Planning and Environmental Design from the University of Catania, Italy. His research is fo cused on the urban environment and the sustainable improvement of the quality of life for all people. Dr. Raciti is committed to inclusion, and participation in political life of marginalized populations. 11 | Page Title: The Man Behind the Curtain: How to Unmas k the Wizard in Political Action Author: Steven Soifer, PhD, LCSW Abstract: Not Available Biography : Steven Soifer, PhD, LCSW The University of Memphis Dr. Soifer is Professor and Chair of the Department of Social Work at the University of Memphis. He has expertise in a wide array of social welfare and social and economic development and research areas with diverse populations and has published and taught extensively on social and economic development, social research, com munity organizing, a nd community planning. He co - founded and has been CEO of the International Paruresis Association (IPA) since 1996. Under his leadership, IPA has established a national and international presence through best practices. 12 | Page Title: Is Advoc acy a Part of Your Treatment Plan? Best Practices for Incorporating Advocacy Training into Treatment Plans Author: Kim Daugherty, LMSW , Rachel Brooks, MS, & Brittney Jordan Abstract: Is advocacy a part of your treatment plan? Does it need to be a pa rt of your treatment plan? This discussion will explore reasons why advocacy training should be a part of your provision of services. The conversation will expand to address the differences between people living with HIV advocating for themselves and HIV - service providers advocating for their clients, to then generalize the implications of any service providers advocating for their clients. This discussion will explore how the stigma and personal biases regarding HIV, transmission of HIV, and other issues such as substance abuse can ent practice trends, including the use of Motivational Interviewing techniques and other evidence - based practices. The workshop will utilize different modalities and incorporate advocacy into treatment plans by working on practical applications for buildi ng skillsets with clients to empower them to advocate for themselves in a variety of situations including interactions with medical service providers, family members, etc. Biographies : Kim Daugherty, LMSW Friends for Life Corporation Ms. Daugherty rece ived her MSW from the University of Tennessee in 1990, and began her career shortly after as a case manager for Shelby Residential and Vocational Services. She has worked at the Tennessee Division of Mental Retardation, Family Services of Memphis, Southwe st Tennessee Community College, and National Mentor Healthcare. She is the Executive Director of the Friends for Life Corporation. Rachel Brooks, MS Friends for Life Corporation Ms. Brooks received her MS in Clinical Psychology from the University of Mem phis in 2013, where she was awarded the Graduate Student Coordinating Council Research Travel award and the Student Government Association Research Travel Award. Ms. Brooks is currently Advocacy Academy Coordinator at the FFL Corporation. Brittney M. Jordan The University of Memphis Ms. Jordan received her BSW from Harding University in May of 2013 , where she received the Presidential Tuition Service Scholarship . She was a member of the National Social Work Honor Society. Ms. Jordan was selected as O utstanding Young W oman of Memphis in 2008 by Memphis Women Magazine. She is currently pursuing her MSW. 13 | Page Title: Tennessee Social Workers and Future Social Workers Attitudes towards the LGBT Population Author: Robin Lennon - Dearing, PhD, MSW Abstract: W hile some states are recognizing marriage equality and legalizing same - sex marriage, in Tennessee, the civil rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) individuals has been under attack in the state legislature through an increasing number o f discriminatory legislative initiatives. The NASW Code of Ethics (2008) is clear that social workers should be culturally competent professionals, not discriminate, and act to prevent and eliminate discrimination through social and political action. How d o Tennessee social workers and future social workers respond to this kind of discriminatory legislation? The purpose of this study was to investigate the attitudes, perceptions, and behaviors of Tennessee social workers and future social workers towards t he LGBT population and toward proposed legislation that discriminates against this population. Additionally, the study sought to ascertain if certain demographic characteristics such as minority status, student status, religious and political affiliation w ere associated with stated attitudes. A survey instrument was created specifically for this study composed of 13 Likert - scale items and 11 demographic questions. A convenience sample of social workers and future social workers were recruited through conta ct with faculty from 8 MSW Programs and 14 BSW University Social Work Programs in Tennessee. From these initial contacts snowball sampling was utilized. Attitudes among the 235 respondents, in general, were in support of LGBT people. Of the 13 statements the range of means were 3.40 to 4.65 on a 5 - point scale with 5 being the most supportive of LGBT issues. Overall, minority respondents scored all statements statistically lower than non - minority respondents. Students scored less support for LGBT issues whe n compared to professionals, as did Christian respondents compared to non - Christian and atheist/agnostic respondents, and conservative respondents scored lower than both moderate and liberal voters in support of LGBT issues. Interestingly, all demographic sub - groups affirmed that professional social work ethics guides their actions with respect to culturally competent social work practice with LGBT clients (M = 4.57, SD = .71). This result is remarkable because, despite their claimed support and applicatio n of the Code of Ethics towards the LGBT population, we did find significant differences within demographic sub - groups in their reported attitudes, the Code of Ethics in practice, but their inconsistency in opposing discriminatory legislative initiatives will be examined. Implications for culturally competent and ethical social work practice will be suggested. 14 | Page Title (Continued) : Tennessee Social Workers and Future Socia l Workers Attitudes towards the LGBT Population Author: Robin Lennon - Dearing, PhD, MSW Abstract: References : National Association of Social Workers [NASW]. (2008). Code of Ethics. Washington: NASW Press. Biograph y : Robin Len non - Dearing, PhD, MSW The University of Memphis Dr. Lennon - Dearing is Assistant Professor at the University of Memphis, where she teaches psychopathology and medical social work across the curriculum. In addition to her extensive research agenda in the are as of mental health and its effects on social integration, she is an experienced clinician specializing in mental health disorders and mental health wellness. 15 | Page Title: Ethical Dilemmas in Reporting Abuse, Neglect, and Exploitation in Long - Term Care Facilit ies Authors: William (Zev) Samuels, LMSW Abstract: There is a problem inherent in the long term care of older frail and disabled persons. Many are vulnerable to actions of Abuse, Neglect and Exploitation actions which occur frequently in Long - Term Care facilities (LTC). Perhaps the greatest remedy to these intolerable and illegal actions is the mandatory reporting mechanism already in place. The Tennessee Adult Protection Act of 1978 requires for any person who has reasonable cause to suspect the occurrence to an elder or disabled adult of abuse, neglect, or exploitation, to report the act to government authorities. These include, but are not limited to, Adult Protective Services, Long - Term Care Ombudsman, and to state and local law enforceme nt agencies. President Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) on prevent, detect, treat, understand, intervene in and, where appropriate, prosecute elder abuse, neglect and expl oitation. the Elder Justice Act, Section 6703 of ACA , the federal government clearly requires mandatory reporting of actions against elders, making efforts to prevent, and to prosecute, crimes against nursing home residents. Challenges to reporti ng these actions have reduced the effectiveness of prosecuting and preventing them. Colonel Mike Ryall of the Memphis Police Department states national surveys which depict reporting of only 1 out of 23 actions against elders. Residents and families may fear retribution or reprisal for speaking out against a perpetrator or facility. Signs of mistreatment may be difficult to recognize; and people may not know whom to contact to make a report. This workshop will introduce Ethical Dilemmas regarding the re porting of Abuse, Neglect and Exploitation in long - term care facilities and will offer practical solutions to them. Objectives of this Workshop include: A recognition of signs of abuse, neglect and exploitation A general understanding of Ethical Dilemma s in reporting actions against residents of LTC facilities Strategies for reporting actions against residents of LTC facilities 16 | Page Title (Continued) : Ethical Dilemmas in Reporting Abuse, Neglect, and Exploitation in Long - Term Care Facilities Authors: William (Zev) Samuels, LMSW Biograph y : Zev Samuels, MSW MIFA Mr. Samuels received his MSW from Wurzweiler School of Social Work, Yeshiva University. Mr. Samuels is MIFA Ombudsman Program Manager through the Aging Commiss ion of the Mid - South for the TN Commission on Aging and Disabilities (TCAD). He serves the community in a multitude of ways, including facilitating the Annual Senior Resource Fair, and the Out on a Limb Memphis Area Limb Loss Support . 17 | Page Title: A Fair Chan ce Authors: Ashley L. Annestedt, LCSW & Malissa Duckworth, LCSW Abstract: This workshop will present current information and trends in the area of Neurodevelopmental Disabilities specifically working with parents who have an Intellectual or other Neur odevelopmental Disability. Points of interest will include the a pplication of federal disability laws in the provision of services for this population, adapted learning styles, community and state resources and creative techniques to partner with this pare nt population. Through increasing awareness throughout the community, improved outcomes can be achieved. Objectives: - Increase knowledge and awareness of Parents with Neurodevelopmental Disabilities - Identify key principles in communication and rapport bu ilding with this population. - Learn adapted teaching methods and learning styles. - Identify resources that assist in parent capacity building Biographies: Ashley L. Annestedt, LCSW U. of Tennessee Boling Center for Developmental Disabilities Ms. Annestedt received her MSW from the University of Tennessee in Memphis in May of 2009. She began her career as a child and family therapist at Health Connect America. Disabilities and program coordinator for Project ENRICH supporting parents with intellectual disabilities. Malissa Duckworth, LCSW U. of Tennessee Boling Center for Developmental Disabilities Lakeside Behavioral Recovery Centers , Inc . Ms. Duckworth re ceived her MSSW from the University of Tennessee College Of Social Work in 2009. She is currently serving as the Fayette County Supported Parenting Disabilities. She is Total Recovery Program. 18 | Page Title: Trichotillomania and other Body Focused Repetitive Behaviors: An Update Author: David Dia, PhD, LCSW, CCBT Abstract: Trichotillomania and other Body Foc used Repetitive Behaviors (BFRBs) are frequently misunderstood, misclassified, and poorly treated by medical and mental health professionals. Currently, there are only 238 treatment providers who have been trained by the Trichotillomania Learning Center. T hese providers are spread out over 38 states. Which means, 12 states do not have any trained providers and many states only have one provider. Tennessee is one of the States with only one provider. Individuals with BFRBs are frequently frustrated by the no n - sequitur nature of information they receive from medical and mental health professions. This workshop will debunk common myths and misconceptions, provide up - to - date information on etiology and phenomenology of BFRBs and current evidenced based treatment . Objectives: 1. To clarify common myths and misconceptions regarding trichotillomania and BFRBs. 2. To learn about current hypotheses regarding etiology of BFRBs. 3. To learn about phenomenology of BFRBs. 4. To be introduced to the evidenced based treatment approach es for trichotillomania and other BFRBs. Biography: David Dia, PhD, LCSW, CCBT Germantown Behavioral Health, LLC Dr. Dia received extensive training in cognitive - behavioral therapy (CBT) training at the under the guidance of Dr. Arthur Freema n, a disciple of Dr. Aaron Beck, the developer of CBT; and advanced training in the treatment of anxiety disorders under Dr. Sally Winston, a nationally recognized expert in the field of anxiety disorders. Dr. Dia has also received specialized training for obsessive - compulsive disorder (OCD). Dr. Dia is a nationally recognized expert, a professional member of the Anxiety Disorders Association of America, and practices in Memphis, TN. 19 | Page Title: Bullying - Not A New Problem Author: Desiree Price , MSW Abstra ct : we hear more personalized stories about bullying within school settings and the community. Youth and adults are sharing personal experiences of being bullied, bein g a bully or a victim - bully in order to increase awareness including at legislative levels. Yet, even with the increase in awareness, research shows that bully - like behaviors are continuing to rise. The definition of bullying has been altered numerous time s in the past few years however most in the field can agree that repeated exposure to negative actions by one or more others directed towards an individual which includes but is not limited to verbal and physical aggression can be considered within the def inition. The effects of bullying also vary however it has been shown that all involved can be affected in an adverse way despite their role in the situation. More research is being completed and presented regarding the long - term negative outcomes of bullyi ng. Victims of bullying are often reported to have decreased self - esteem, feelings of depression, and sometimes suicidal ideations. While there is growing research on the long - term effects of bullying within the school setting and community, there is littl e research regarding the rates and effects of bullying within the residential setting. Residential settings such as treatment centers or detention centers offer a different dynamic that is not often considered when discussing bullying at a school or within the community level. This presentation will review research regarding bullying within residential settings (treatment centers and detention centers) and to discuss current interventions being used to address this growing issue both within schools and resi dential centers. Biography: Youth Villages Ms. Price received her MSW from the University of Minnesota School of Social Work in 2011. She has been a volunteer mentor since 2008, focusing on asset developing and relation ship building. She is currently a Masters Level Residential Counselor at Youth Villages in Memphis, Tennessee. 20 | Page Title: African American Males Author: Gregory Washington, PhD, LCSW Abstract: This workshop will address the dearth of information regardin g African American males and youth mentoring. The purposes of this workshop are to: 1) review the literature related to the mentoring of African American male youth and discuss the gaps and the influence of Eurocentric versus Afrocentric worldviews on app roaches to mentoring; 2) discuss research on the experiences of a group of African American men who have mentored in a local after - school program ; 3) and provide discussion on implications for recruiting African American men to mentor in formal mentoring programs with a culturally - centered design. This workshop will provide strategies individuals and organizations can utilize to effectively recruit, train and retain young African American males. It will highlight the use of cultural assets such as Afric an drumming and hip - hop music as ways to attract vulnerable populations, this workshop could be a valuable resource for educators and practitioners committed to addressing the many risks to the healthy development young African - American males. The workshop will present and explore the experiences and scholarship of three African American social workers, Gregory Washington, Jerry Watson, and Gerald Richardson. B iography: Gregory Washington, PhD, MSW, MS, LCSW The University of Memphis Dr. Washington received his BS from the University of Illinois, his MS in education from Chicago State University, MSW from Clark Atlanta University, and his Ph. D. from Clark Univ ersity. He is currently an Associate Professor at the University of Memphis for the Department of Social Work. He is also deeply involved with the Just Care Family Network in Memphis, TN. 21 | Page Title: How to Thrive When You Get Fired: 50 Years of Ethical Ad vocacy Author: Charles H. Frost , PhD Abstract: 1963, after passing a civil service test for a job I knew nothing about; I became a social worker at a county welfare department. I quickly realized that this was the perfect job for me and at the same ti myself studying to get my MSW. Throughout those 50 years later, I have been a vigorous advocate doing my best to live up to the NASW Code of Ethics. How I was able to not only survive but to thrive under the stressful demands of ethical advocacy is the theme of this presentation. seen as coming in conflict with the first. Some agencies will censure, i ntimidate, and/or their commitment to the organization. of getting fired. Over t he years I have been threatened with dismissal numerous times each time I was fired it turned out to be a blessing. In my presentation I will give examples of my eth ical advocacy and how I learned to anticipate negative repercussions and plan for them so that they were not devastating. Examples will be from rural and metropolitan environments both here in America and abroad. A handout will be provided with the basic principles that need to guide your advocacy efforts in a manner that helps you avoid burnout. Biography: Charles H. Frost, PhD, MSW Middle Tennessee State University Dr. Frost received his DSW from the University of California and his MSW from Califor nia State University. He is Professor of Social Work at Middle Tennessee State University. Dr. Frost has numerous publications and presentations on social work education and child welfare. He obtained the largest grant in the history of his university, fun ding the Tennessee Center for Child Welfare . 22 | Page Title: Deinstitutionalization: Its Effects on the Criminal Justice System Author: Stephanie Lovins, BSW Abstract: Since the implementation of deinstitutionalization millions of mentally ill people are forced into society with little to no assistance. Many times these mentally ill find themselves within the justice system which serves as psychiatric facilities to hundreds of thousands. This study investigates the impact that deinstitutionalization has h ad on the criminal justice system and explores potential solutions presented thus far. The results of the study will assist not only social workers but mental health professionals to guide mentally ill persons who fall victim to the justice system due to m ental health. A review of records from a local agency that performs mental health evaluations of clients charged with crimes in Shelby County, TN has produced evidence that there is an alarming amount of people who suffer from mental illness that cycle thr ough the justice system for menial crimes most likely related to mental illness. Not only did the data produce evidence but it also supported statistics of past studies. It enforced the fact that mental health treatment is in crisis and in need of soluti ons to curve this trend in the justice system serving as the largest form of psychiatric treatment in our nation. Deinstitutionalization left persons with mental illness very few community resources. Many of these persons turned to criminal actions fallin g victims to the criminal justice system by default. There will continue to be an overwhelming amount of persons with mental illness cycle through the justice system until there is implementation of program to assist these individuals. Biograp hy: Stephanie Lovins The University of Memphis Ms. Lovins is currently pursuing her BSW at the University of Memphis where she has a 4.0 GPA. She is the president of the Student Social Work Organization and the secretary of the Golden Key Honor Society. Ms. Lovins is currently the Social Work intern at West Tennessee Forensic Services. 23 | Page Title: Ethics: The Basics Author: Catherine Augusta Simmons, PhD, LCSW Abstract: Not Available Biography: Catherine Augusta Simmons, PhD, LCSW The University of Memphis Catherine A. Simmons, Ph.D., L.C.S.W., is an Associate Professor at the Department of Social Work, The University of Memphis. Dr. Simmons has over 20 years of social work experience and teaches clinical practice and re search courses in the graduate program. Her publications include 2 books and over 30 professional papers focusing trauma, violence, and strengths - based interventions. 24 | Page Title: Ethics, Advocacy, and Education: The Disaster Response Organizing Project Autho r: Jerry Watson, PhD, MSW, MBA, Tina Roberson, & Angela Teasley Abstract: effective services, and to provide leadership in essential collaborations among institution s The events of the February 2013 tornadoes in Hattiesburg, Mississippi, provided service - learning opportunities for social work students at the University of Mississippi. More specifically, students were able to utilize t he Generalist Intervention Model to design and implement a disaster response effort. Shortly after the weather event occurred, students communicated with key stakeholders in Hattiesburg, MS. A rapid needs assessment was conducted to determine the geogr aphic impacted areas, the immediate after storm needs of the residents, and resources already allocated in the impacted areas. This information was utilized to determine the capacity of the students to respond. As advocates for the residents, students we re eager to hear their storm stories and their experiences as they sought relief and benefits from government and not - for - profit agencies. Issues related to saturation of agency responsiveness and resident confidentiality surfaced as service providers req uired - receipt of services and centralized response operations facilities. These conditions subsequently created a reluctance or refusal on the part of residents to connect with services. Dissatisfaction, fear, and confusion on the part of both storm victims and service providers were evident. However, the implementation of disaster response practices was not always developed on ethical standards. Finally, social work students participated in a debriefing sess ion to reflect upon their experience. The topics and themes that emerged were: ethical issues in disaster response efforts, advocacy and education, partnerships, adjusting to foreign environments, ambiguity, uncertainty and change, engagement, and social worker stress and burnout. Learning Objectives After participating in this workshop, participants will: Understand at least two social worker roles in disaster response efforts. Increase social worker knowledge of ethical issues in disaster response init iatives. Be able to create educational and advocacy strategies in the disaster response environment. 25 | Page Title (Continued) : Ethics, Advocacy, and Education: The Disaster Response Organizing Project Autho r: Jerry Watson, PhD, MSW, MBA, Tina Roberson, & Angela Teasley Biographies : Jerry Watson, PhD, MBA, MSW The University of Mississippi Dr. Watson received his PhD in Urban Higher Education from Jackson State University in 2006, his MBA in Marketing and Management from Dominican University in 2003, his MSW in Management and Policy from the University of Illinois in 1997. Dr. Watson currently is Assistant Professor of Social Work at the University of Mississippi. Tina Robe rson The University of Mississippi Ms. Roberson is currently pursuing her BSW at The University of Mississippi where she has been the recipient of the CC Academic Excellence Scholarship since 2012. She Mississippi State Veterans Home. Ms. Roberson is also a member of the Student Social Work Organization, Phi Beta Lambda, Sigma Alpha Lambda, and Gamma Beta Phi. Angelika Teasley The University of Mississippi Ms. Teasley is currently pursuing her BSW at the University of Mississippi where she has a 4.0 GPA. She currently serves as a shelter and office volunteer at House of Grace in Southaven, Mississippi and volunteers at Specialty Hospice in Olive Branch, Mississippi. 26 | Page © 201 4 . Department of Social Work, University of Memphis About the Department of Social Work at the University of Memphis The Department of Social Work resides in the School of Urban Affairs & Public Policy within the College of Arts & Sciences. The Program offers two degree programs. The Bachelors of Arts in Social Work program and the Master of Social Work program are both fully accredited by the Council of Social Work Education (CSWE).