#http://bf.memphis.edu/forms/burs/requestfortuitionreceipt.pdf
Request for Receipt or Prior Year 1098-T Forms* This form should be used to request tuition an d other receipts, duplicate 1098-T forms* for years prior to the 2006 tax year, or tuition letters fo r students at The University of Memphis. Completed requests will be mail ed to the address provided belo w. Please allow 7 Œ 10 business days from date received in Bursar™s Office for processing requests. TO BE COMPLETED BY STUDENT: Please indicate below the document type and semester(s)/year(s) needed: Tuition Receipt Tuition Letter Semester(s) Needed Duplicate 1098-T form* for years PRIOR to previous tax year Year(s) Needed Other (Please explain) Date Requested: Last Name: First Name Student ID#: Address: City: STATE ZIP * 1098-T forms are mailed to students by January 31 each year for the previous tax year. If you have not received your 1098-T form, or if your address has changed, you may log into the ECSI Services website as indicated below to print your 1098-T form for the previous tax year through the 2006 tax year. Our office is una ble to give any advice about fi ling taxes; please contact the IRS or your tax preparer for those questions. Use this form for requesting duplicate 1098-T forms for years prior to the previous tax year. Log in to ECSI 1098-T Services (link opens in a new page) Click on the Login to My Account Enter the University of Memphis™s school code: AH Enter the Requested Information and click Login. The PIN number is provided by ECSI, go to to learn more. Please return this completed request form to the University of Memphis Bursar™s Office, 115 Wilder Tower, Memphis, TN 38152-3520. The form may also be faxed to the Bursar™s Office at 901.678.0288. The University reserves the right to correct erro rs in student fee assess ments and charges which are discovered subsequent to initial billings or fee statements. The University of Memphis, one of the Tennessee Board of Regents institutions, is an Equal Opport unity/ Affirmative Action Univ ersity.