#http://www.memphis.edu/ehs/programs/videos.php
Video Library - EH&amp;S - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Office of Environmental Health and Safety Programs Resources Emergencies SDS Contact Us Programs Biological Safety Chemical Safety Chematix Log-in Radiation Safety Hazardous Waste Fire Safety Occupational Health Training Home EH&amp;S Programs Video Library Video Library Academic Aftershocks, CSU , Office of Emergency Services , 46:32 - Discusses how California State University Northridge worked through the aftermath of an earthquake. Assessing Risks of Toxic Chemicals , HHMI , 11:12 - Provides guidance for risk assessment of toxic chemicals associated with biomedical laboratories. Back on Track , NP , 15:00 - Reviews different types of absorbent materials that can be used to clean up the many different kinds of hazardous spills. Bloodborne Pathogens , 2000, LIP , 19:00 - Provides information on bloodborne diseases, how they can spread, and how to prevent transmission. Bloodborne Pathogens: Exposure in the Workplace , 2007, TTN , 22:00 - Provides information on bloodborne diseases, how they can spread, how to prevent transmission, and how to respond exposure in the work place. Bloodborne and Airborne Pathogens, Instructor’s Video, NSC , 10 min - Training instructors on how to teach personnel on bloodborne and airborne pathogens and how to protect themselves. Available in DVD and VHS;CD-ROM containing PowerPoint Presentations. Bloodborne Pathogens Healthcare Update , TTN , 25:00 - Provides information on measures healthcare personnel should take to prevent contamination and infection of bloodborne pathogens as well as the steps to take in response to contamination. Bloodborne Pathogens Non-Heathcare Employees, LIP , 12:22 - Explains about bloodborne pathogens and how personnel are at risk at, goes over preventative measures personnel should take. Bloodborne Pathogens for Law Enforcement , CSE , 19:00 - Provides information on how law enforcement personnel can come into contact with bloodborne pathogens and what measures personnel should take to prevent contamination. Bloodborne Pathogens in Schools , CSE , 22:00 - Provides information on how school personnel can come into contact with bloodborne pathogens and what measures they should take to prevent contamination. Bloodborne Pathogens for the Workplace , TTN , 17:00 - Provides information on measures personnel should take to prevent contamination and infection. Bloodborne Pathogens Safety for Custodians , TTN , 20:00 - Provides information on how custodial personnel can come into contact with bloodborne pathogens and what measures they should take to prevent contamination and infection. Centrifugation Hazards , HHMI , 9:00 - Provides guidance on the safe use of centrifuges. Chemical Hazards , HHMI , 10:00 - Promotes chemical safety principles applied to working with hazardous chemicals in the laboratory. Chemical Storage Hazards , HHMI , 11:00 - Provides guidance for prudent storage of chemicals. “ Chemical Waste on Campus” CSU Teleconference on Health and Safety #10, CSU , 2:00:00 - Provides environmental health and safety information to technical staff and faculty. Chit: Introduction and Overview 19:00 - This video designed for industrial/commercial operations. Good information for personnel in shops. Chit: Toxins and Poisons 12:00 - This video designed for industrial/commercial operations. Good information for personnel in shops. Chit: Radiation Hazards 15:00 - This video designed for industrial/commercial operations. Good information for personnel in shops. Chit: Corrosives and Irritants 11:00 - This video designed for industrial/commercial operations. Good information for personnel in shops. Chit: Flammables, Combustibles and Explosives 13:00 - This video designed for industrial/commercial operations. Good information for personnel in shops. Chit: Biological Hazards 13:00 - This video designed for industrial/commercial operations. Good information for personnel in shops. Chit: Carcinogens, Mutagens and Teratogens 12:00 - This video designed for industrial commercial/operations. Good information for personnel in shops. Compressed Gases Can Be Dangerous , NADC , 5:00 - Demonstrates compressed gas cylinder safety through a case study of serious cylinder accident (also available as a slide/ audio tape set). Compressed Gases: Cylinder Safety , ALA , 17:00 - Describes compressed gas cylinders and how they are commonly used. Compressed Gases: Safe Handling Procedures , ACS , 19:00 - Emphasizes accident prevention when working with compressed gases, includes procedures fore safe handling, use and storage. Controlling Your Risks - HIV in the Research Laboratory , HHMI , 28:00 - Emphasizes managing laboratory processes from generation to disposal of waste, focusing on waste definition, collection, storage, separation, and minimization. Creating Art Safely - a six step process , OEHS2 , 24:00 - Provides an overview of health and safety hazards common to art programs in educational institutions. Electrical Safety in the Laboratory, LSI , 11min - Discusses how to work with electricity. Emergency Response Guidebook, CMA , 33:38 - Provides guidance for appropriately responding to hazardous materials emergencies. Emergency Response , HHMI , 12:00 - Provides guidance for appropriately responding to emergencies in biomedical laboratories. Employee Safety Orientation , CMA , 14:00 - Discusses safety measures for employees. Environmental Safety in the Arts , CSU , 2:00:00 - Emphasizes following environmental rules and regulations in art departments. Eye &amp; Face Protection in Chemical Laboratories , LSI , 15:00 - Uses case studies to demonstrate the importance of the proper use of adequate protective equipment such as goggles and face shields. Eye Irrigator Video , AHS , 15:00 - Demonstrates the proper way to use the eye irrigator when hazardous materials have infected the eyes. Fire Safety in the Tiger Den , UofM , 5:00 - Discusses fire safety measures on campus. From Cradle to Grave: A Lab Safety Supply Production , LSS , 16:00 - Provides guidance for small quality generators of hazardous waste, discussing regulations, liability, proper hazardous waste management, shipping procedures, emergency preparation and response requirements. From Cradle to Grave: Laboratory Waste Management , ACS , 14:00 - Provides a look at regulations impacting proper waste management techniques in laboratories. Fundamentals of Radiation Safety , RTS , 50:00 - Explains fundamentals of ionizing radiation and provides instruction on recognizing and employing techniques to keep dose as low as reasonably achievable. Glassware Washing Hazards , HHMI , 10:00 - Guidance for proper methods of cleaning and sterilizing glassware used in the laboratory. Have You Hugged Your Fume Hood Today? , LS , 17:30 - Discusses techniques for using, operating, and maintaining fume hoods. Hazard Communication , TO , 13:00 - Discusses the 7 questions that OSHA will ask employees when performing an inspection. Hazardous Waste Management at Laboratories and Research Facilities , EV , 2 tapes - Provides hazardous waste training for laboratory personnel. Hazardous Materials: General Awareness &amp; Familiarization , DOT , 17:20 - Discusses hazard classification; packaging, markings, labels, &amp; placards; shipping papers; loading, unloading &amp; securement; and emergency response information regarding the transportation of hazardous materials. Hazardous Materials Handling , UT , 15:00 - Discusses MSDS availability and usefulness as well as different equipment used to protect workers from hazardous materials. HAZWOPER First Responder Awareness Level , CSE , 15:00 - Reviews regulations and the steps first responders should take when an emergency happens. Health and Safety for Educational Institutions Using Hazardous Materials #3 , CSU , Teleconference, 2:00:00 - Presents environmental health and safety information emphasizing the safe use of hazardous materials. Health and Safety Educational Institutions #4 Emphasis on Pollution Prevention , CSU , Teleconference, 2:00:00 - Provides information on hazardous waste reduction. Health and Safety Current Developments in Hazardous Waste Minimization #6 , CSU , Teleconference, 2:00:00 - Discusses ways to minimize hazardous waste. Hexavalent Chromium Employee Training , ERI , 16:00 - Discusses the safe work practices workers must follow to avoid exposures to this hazardous substance. How Safe is Your Laboratory? , ACS , 2:00:00 - A video course for those who handle, use, or manage hazardous chemicals. Laboratory Hoods , JTB , 13:00 - Discusses the importance of laboratory hoods and how to maintain them. Lab Wars, Episode III: Revenge of the Bacterium , MSU , 13:00 - Demonstrates the importance of good biological safety practices in an entertaining format. Mammalian Cell Culture Hazards, HHMI , 8:00 - Discusses safety measures applicable to handling mammalian cell cultures. Marty’s Guide to Laboratory Chemical Storage (with booklet), ACS , 17:00 - Teaches the importance of familiarity with chemical hazards, proper inventory and labeling methods, segregation of incompatible chemicals, etc. Mercury and the Healthcare Professional , MOEA , 17:00 - Provides a look at regulations affecting proper waste management techniques in laboratories. Orientation to Laboratory Safety , LSI , 11:00 - Provides employees with the basis for understanding the concepts of laboratory safety. Oxidation Hazards: More Than Just Air (with booklet), ACS , 17:00 - Provides humorous presentation of serious unexpected events such as fire and explosion, includes handling and storage precautions for oxidizers and peroxide formers. Performing Safety Audits and Hazard Evaluation Reviews , ACS , 2:00:00 - Discusses the quantitative and analytical steps for auditing chemical laboratories. PPE Eyewear Training Video , UVEX, 15:00 - Discusses the importance of eye protection and the process of selection the proper eyewear. Planning for Laboratory Emergencies , LSI , 15:00 - Provides employees with the basis for understanding how to plan for laboratory emergencies and how to deal with them if they occur. Practicing Safe Science , HHM I , 29:10 - Demonstrates good safety techniques by re-enacting biomedical laboratory accidents, and asks questions that challenge the viewer to recognize risks. Preventing Bloodborne Disease , TAT , 18:00 - Discusses principles and safe practices for preventing bloodborne pathogen transmission in the lab and in public safety. Preventing Contamination , LSI , 10:00 - Provides employees with the basis for understand how contamination occurs and how it can be prevented. Protecting Your Health: For Those Who Process, Sort and Deliver the Mail , CDC , 16:06 - Discusses the effects of anthrax and protective measures to be taken by workers. Radionuclide Hazards , HHMI , 12:00 - Demonstrates good principles for use of radioisotopes in the biomedical laboratory. Respiratory Protection - A Breath of Fresh Air, CSE , 20:00 - Suitable for introductory or refresher respirator training. Risks Associated with Occupational Radiation Exposure , RTS , 50:00 - Informs personnel of potential health effects of exposure to ionizing radiation, provides a clear discussion of effects and risks. Safe Handling of Biohazards , BFI , 15:00 - Discusses biohazards and preventatives measures against biohazards mishaps Safe Use of Chemical Fume Hoods , EI , 17:00 - Demonstrates operation characteristics and how to properly work in a fume hood. Safe Use of Biological Safety Cabinets or The Case of the Contaminated Cultures , EI , 22:00 - Discusses the rules and guidelines for work preparations, cabinet procedures, cleanup operations, and how to avoid contaminating experiments. Safety In the Research Laboratory, HHMI , - Each video averages about 10 minutes, describes in detail possible accidents and hazards in the laboratory and how to avoid them and respond to them when they do occur. Safety Showers and Eye Washes , LSI, 8:00 - Emphasizes the understanding of operations of safety showers and eye washes al well as when and how they should be used. Safety Videos, CSB , - Scary videos related to chemical accidents investigated by the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board. Safety Watch: Bloodborne Pathogens: What Are They?, TAT , 14:00 - Details common blood-borne pathogens, symptoms/diseases, and ways to protect yourself. Seeing the Light: Eye and Face Protection (with booklet), ACS , 14:00 - Provides information on selection and use of personal protective equipment appropriate for protection against laboratory exposure to chemical splashes, fumes, vapors, mechanical impact, and laser/UV radiation. Spill Drill: A How to Video on Hazmat Spill Response , NP , 25:00 - Provides information on how to handle a hazardous material spill in an industrial environment. Stop That Dose! Working Safely With Toxic Chemicals (with booklet), ACS , 22:00 - Uses a humorous, entertaining setting to increase awareness of toxicity hazards and how to work safely with toxic chemicals. Taking the Long View: Carcinogens and Related Health Hazards (with booklet), ACS , 18:00 - Takes a serious, straight-forward look at carcinogens, mutagens, and reproductive toxins in the lab. The Big Spill: Spill Prevention and Cleanup (with booklet), ACS , 17:00 - Provides guidance on preventing spills and how to protect yourself and others in the event of a spill. Therapeutic Responses to Emerging Resistance W/Gram Positive Aerobic Infections 90:00 - Details the different Gram-positive infections and methods of treatment/prevention of infections. TOSHA R-T-K Overview and Industrial Training, Including Safe Chemical Handling Parts I &amp; II, TOSHA , 40:00 – Provides details of employees’ Right-to-Know. User’s Guide to Laser Safety , RLI - Discusses the basics of lasers and the hazards associated with laser, emphasizing laser safety. Using Chemical Hoods: A Laboratory Safety Test , ACS , 26:00 - Discusses the proper use of chemical fume hoods and precautions to take to ensure your protection. Virtual E.P.A. Inspection of a College or University , HINU , 45:00 - Real EPA inspectors shows how a multi-media inspection might be conducted. What’s Wrong with This Picture ! , AP , 17:00 - Emphasizes chemical safety in an industrial atmosphere. X-Ray Diffraction Hazards , HHMI , 9:00 - Introduces concepts instrumental in the safe operation of low-energy x-ray diffraction units. Your Right To Know The University of Texas Safety Office Your Right To Know With Dr. V. Lane Rawlins Legend ALA – Air Liquide American Specialty Gases LLC ACS – American Chemical Society AHS – American Health and Safety AP – Aurora Pictures CDC – Centers for Disease Control CMA – Chemical Manufacturers Association CSB – Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board CSE – Coastal Safety CSU – California State University DOT – Department of Transportation EI – Eagleson Institute ERI – ERI Safety Videos EV – Excal Visual HHMI – Howard Hughes Medical Institute HINU – Haskell Indian Nations University JTB – J. T. Baker Company LIP – Long Island Productions LSI – Laboratory Safety Institute LS – Loc Scientific, Inc. MSU – Mississippi State University NADC – National Animal Disease Center NP – New Pig Corporation NSC – National Safety Council OEHS2 – Occupational and Environmental Health &amp; Safety Solutions RLI - Rockwell Laser Industries RTS – Radiological Training Services TAT – Tel-A-Train TO – Tennessee OSHA TTN – The Training Network UoM – University of Memphis UT – University of Texas UVEX – Uvex Corporation Programs Biological Safety Chemical Safety Chematix Log-in Radiation Safety Hazardous Waste Fire Safety Occupational Health Training Be Prepared Sign up for safety training. Report an Incident Report an Accident, Near Miss, or Safety Hazard. Know the Plan The Crisis Management Plan has everything you need to know. Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the U of M Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .