#http://www.memphis.edu/drs/faculty/proctoring.php
Guidelines for Using DRS Test Proctoring Service - Disability Resources for Students - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Disability Resources for Students About Access Accommodations Technology Policies Career Programs Faculty Information for Faculty ADA/504 for Higher Ed Requests for Accommodations Using Test Proctoring Service Safety and Evacuation Helpful Links for Faculty Home Disability Resources for Students Information for Faculty Guidelines for Using DRS Test Proctoring Service Guidelines for Using DRS Test Proctoring Service Students are expected to bring their completed Test Accommodation Record forms to DRS to schedule their tests a minimum of two (2) business days before the tests. Test Accommodation Record forms can be picked up in DRS. The student should complete Part I of the form and give it to the faculty member to complete Part II of the form ( Sample Test Form ). Please note that this is a sample for viewing and cannot be used for testing. The fourth or gold copy of the Test Accommodation Record form is for the faculty member and helps to protect the security of the test instructions. We encourage professors to keep this gold copy to compare with the yellow copy, which we return with the test. Doing so will ensure that students are unable to change the instructions on the form after it leaves the professor's hands. After the faculty member completes Part II of the form, the student then turns it in to DRS so the test may be scheduled. DRS needs two days to arrange adequate space, proctors, and adaptive aids prior to test time. Faculty members are not responsible for turning in the forms to DRS, and we ask that they not assume this responsibility for students. Part III and IV of the test form are completed in DRS after the student has finished testing. Test Delivery Faculty members are responsible for delivering their tests to DRS. Delivery may be by: E-mail: drstests@memphis.edu Fax: 678-3070 In person: 110 Wilder Tower Monday – Friday 8:00am-4:30pm Tests which need to be set up on DRS computers for formatting in alternative formats should be sent 24 hours (1 business day) prior to test time and must be sent in an electronic format. Tests in paper copy need to be at DRS 48 hours (2 business days) prior to test time to ensure that we have time to scan, proof, and/or Braille. DRS will return completed tests to faculty members at their department office. We do not deliver to individual faculty offices. Alternatively, faculty members are welcome to pick up completed exams by coming to the DRS office, 110 Wilder Tower. We ask that professors not deliver or send tests to our office until after they have signed the Test Accommodation Record form. If the test and the paperwork cannot be matched up together when the test arrives in the office, it creates numerous problems for professors, students, and DRS staff, particularly when the test has no name on it. Testing Procedures Test Security: Students are either monitored by a proctor or by cameras monitored by DRS staff members. Students arriving at DRS to take their test later than 10 minutes after the scheduled test time will be asked to get permission from their professor in order to start the test late. If the student misses the test, DRS directs the student to discuss the situation with the professor and have him/her contact DRS regarding a possible rescheduling of the test. If the test is not rescheduled, the test is returned to the professor or shredded. Faculty members with questions about the testing process or problems with the services should contact Susan Te Paske, DRS Director, or the DRS Testing Coordinator, at 901.678.2880. Information for Faculty ADA/504 for Higher Ed Requests for Accommodations Using Test Proctoring Service Safety and Evacuation Helpful Links for Faculty Contact DRS DRS Announcements Student and Faculty Awards Thanks to Our Volunteer Note-takers! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .