#http://www.memphis.edu/testing/services/teas.php
TEAS - Testing Center - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Testing Center About Services Accommodations Visitor Information Lambuth Testing Services Educational Testing Service ACT Residual COMPASS CLEP DSST Miller Analogies Test Oral Proficiency Interview Para Pro Assessment Proctor Services TEAS Home Testing Center Services TEAS TEAS The Test of Essential Academic Skills (TEAS®) is a multiple-choice assessment of basic academic knowledge in reading, mathematics, science and English and language usage. The objectives assessed on the TEAS exam are those which nurse educators deemed most appropriate and relevant to measure entry level skills and abilities of nursing program applicants. Registration Information COST: Test Administration Fee: $72.00 (Effective immediately, August 2015 and subsequent exam prices will increase to $82) Acceptable methods of payment are: Visa, MasterCard, Discover &amp; American Express. Once this fee is paid, you will receive a confirmation email from MARKETPLACE confirming your chosen appointment time and date. All fees are non-refundable and non-transferable REGISTRATION: Through our secure Marketplace payment center, examinees are to select a time, date and pay their administration fee. **Exam dates will not be present if that particular day is full. Once you have registered for a specific date and time, it may not be rescheduled. Please note: It is extremely important that you register for the correct date and time; No refunds or schedule changes will be granted for incorrect registrations. YOU MUST CREATE A USERNAME AND PASSWORD THROUGH ATI TESTING PRIOR TO YOUR TEST DATE - The ATI user name/password will be used at the testing center to launch your exam. To begin this process CLICK HERE The TEAS exam can be taken at the University of Memphis Main campus or at the Lambuth campus by clicking the appropriate link below. For information regarding the TEAS test, please visit the ATI website. For information regarding the University of Memphis Nursing Program, please visit the Loewenberg School of Nursing website. WHAT TO BRING A non-expired Government issued photo ID is required and must be presented prior to testing. **Your photo ID must be a valid photo ID matching exactly the name you used when registering. NO EXCEPTIONS**. All ID's must include a current photograph, examinee's signature and a permanent address (Driver's License Government issued State ID card (from DMV)Passport) Bring your Printed email receipt sent to you by Marketplace and your username/password created with ATI Testing. YOU MUST CREATE A USERNAME AND PASSWORD THROUGH ATI TESTING PRIOR TO YOUR TEST DATE - (see Registration Information above) You must arrive at least 15 minutes prior to your testing time. Please be prompt. No late arrivals will be admitted. SCHEDULE YOUR EXAM By clicking the campus location below, I agree that I have read and understand the information listed on this website and I am now ready to register for the TEAS. Please Note: Examinees may only take one exam per day. THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS MAIN CAMPUS For general inquires, please contact: Charlotte Wade ( cwade3@memphis.edu ) or 901.678.3013 Please Note: Exam dates for the next month are released towards the end of the current month Exam Location: Brister Hall 111 THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS LAMBUTH CAMPUS For general inquires, please contact: Antoinette Smith ( nsmith10@memphis.edu ) or 731.425.1910 Please Note: Exam dates are released bi-weekly Exam Location: Hyde Hall 19 Services Educational Testing Service ACT Residual COMPASS CLEP DSST Miller Analogies Test Oral Proficiency Interview Para Pro Assessment Proctor Services TEAS Contact Us Let us know how we may assist you. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .