#http://bf.memphis.edu/spectrum/hr/employees.php
HR Program Guide CODES data standards manual deduction codes e-classes earnings codes suffix list soc codes EMPLOYEE SELF SERVICE accessing your info pay stub info troubleshooting TRAINING learning curve reference cards UTILITIES eContracts position lookup web time entry by organization by name organization chart search REPORTS e~Print FORMS direct deposit hr payroll student employment system access FI PROGRAM GUIDE TIGERBUY PROGRAM GUIDE Print Version Employee Self Service: Accessing Your Information The implementation of the Banner Human Resources system means that you will now access Employee Self Service via the University's myMemphis Web portal . Employee Self Service is now available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year! The myMemphis Portal Web site is . Log into the Portal using your UUID and password. Your UUID is your Universal User ID. The username and password required to enter the Portal are the same username and password you use to login to your University e-mail and UMdrive accounts. When logging in, keep in mind that your login is case sensitive. If you have trouble logging in, contact the ITD Helpdesk at (901) 678-8888. After successfully logging in, look for the tab marked Employee . Click on the Employee tab, and look for a portal channel called Employment Details . Within this channel, you will find five links: Benefits , Direct Deposit , Pay Stub , Job Details , and Leave Details . Descriptions of how to use each of these links follows below. Benefits Selecting the Benefits link will take you to a screen prompting you to select the benefit period that you wish to view. Once you have made your selection, click Select and you will see a Benefit Summary screen. This screen will list your personal data, including university department, benefit category, date of birth, original and current hire dates, and adjusted service date. This information is followed by a list of benefits and deductions that exist in the system for the date range you have chosen. You also have the option of Select New Date should you wish to view information for a different time period. You may click the Back to Employee link in the upper left portion of your screen to return to the Employment Details channel. Direct Deposit Selecting the Direct Deposit link will take you to a screen listing two sets of direct deposit information. The first set of account number(s) displays the account(s) into which your most recent salary payment was deposited. The second set of account number(s) displays the account(s) currently on file to receive any future salary payments from the University. Both of these listings indicate any splits you have requested (e.g. savings vs. checking) with details of the order in which your salary will be distributed to these accounts. You may click the Back to Employee link in the upper left portion of your screen to return to the Employment Details channel. Pay Stub Selecting the Pay Stub link will take you to a screen prompting you to select a year from which you wish to view pay stub information. Choose the appropriate year, and click the Select button. You will see a list of all pay stubs you have received for this year, including the pay stub date, pay period beginning and ending dates, gross and net pay, and special messages, if any. Check stubs will only appear for payrolls processed after the Banner HR go-live date of March 13, 2006. (The first biweekly pay stub date in the new system is April 7, 2006; the first monthly is April 30, 2006.) Click on the pay stub date for which you wish to view detailed information. Doing this will take you to the Pay Stub Detail screen. This screen replicates much of the information that is e-mailed to you when you receive a salary payment. (For more information on these e-mails, click here .) Clicking the Pay Stubs link at the bottom of this screen will take you back to the menu and allow you to choose another date. You may click the Back to Employee link in the upper left portion of your screen to return to the Employment Details channel. Job Details Selecting the Job Details link will take you to a screen with a listing of all assignments you currently and/or previously held with the University, with a list including job title and beginning and end dates. Click on the title of the job about which you wish to view more information. Clicking the Jobs Summary link at the bottom of this detail screen will return you to the jobs list. You may click the Back to Employee link in the upper left portion of your screen to return to the Employment Details channel. Leave Details Selecting the Leave Details link will take you to a screen with a listing of annual and sick leave balances and date ranges. You may select an option within the Type of Leave column to view more details. The details screen displays information related to leave accrual and usage for an entire fiscal year, sorted by pay periods. Accurate leave balances will only appear after your first payroll is processed in the new system (April 7th for biweekly employees and April 30th for monthly employees). Now, you can access the myMemphis portal and retrieve your information from Employee Self Service. Comments &amp; Suggestions | Important Notice | U of M Home Site maintained by Division of Business &amp; Finance Last update: 06/06/2011