#http://www.memphis.edu/lambuth/aboutfactsfaqs.php
About Featured Facts and FAQs - UofM Lambuth - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University of Memphis Lambuth Classes Admissions Campus Life Residence Student Services Campus Services Home UofM Lambuth About Featured Facts and FAQs Facts &amp; FAQs Featured Facts 21 bachelor degrees, 6 master's degrees, and 2 doctoral degrees in a variety of areas Enrollment of over 900 students Student/Faculty ration of 15:1 Nationally ranked by U.S. News and World Report on the Honor Roll for Teacher Quality in the teacher preparation area Military Friendly Schools list for 2015 Nationally ranked by U.S. News and World Report for top 10 best internship programs in the United States Ranked 14th best online RN to BSN program nationally Ranked in the top 25 online MBA programs across the US by The Princeton Review MSN online program ranked in the top 100 by U.S. News &amp; World Report Ranked one of the top online Criminal Justice programs of 2015 by BestColleges.com Selected one of 353 "green" colleges and universitites by The Princeton Review Over 50 study abroad programs available National collegiate honors program available Average ACT score for entering students is 22 UofM Lambuth is a Level 2 Certified Arboretum as designated by the Tennessee Urban Forestry Council (Map) Home of the M.D. Anderson Planetarium Jackson, Tennessee designated "most livable" small city in the U.S. by the U.S. Conference of Mayors Scholarships are available - Contact us for more information! FAQs Applying to the University of Memphis Lambuth Students at UofM Lambuth are admitted to the University of Memphis at large and can attend classes at any of UofM locations or online. A number of complete undergraduate and graduate programs of study are offered at Lambuth and more programs are being added. More information is available at these links: University of Memphis Admissions Office Academic programs offered at Lambuth Class offerings If you have additional questions about attending the University of Memphis Lambuth, contact us at 731.427.4725 or 901.678.5087, or email us at lambuth@memphis.edu . Transferring to the University of Memphis Lambuth? To see if your credits will transfer to the University of Memphis, visit the transfer equivalency table section of the UofM Admissions website. If you have additional questions about transferring to the UofM Lambuth, contact us at 731.427.4725 or 901.678.5087, or email us at lambuth@memphis.edu . Scheduling a visit Scheduling a visit to the University of Memphis Lambuth is easy. Call us at 731.427.4725 or sign up online . Campus tours are scheduled Monday - Friday at 1:30 pm (except holidays and University closings). It is important that you sign up in advance. Groups of eight or more should call 731.425.7982. Finding campus is easy—simply follow our Directions to UofM Lambuth. Housing and dining on campus Housing information for the UofM Lambuth is available at the campus housing page . You may also call 731.425.1951 or 901.678.2295 for more information. Dining options are available at the Follett Bookstore and Coffee Shop (located in the Wilder Student Union building), which is open Monday – Thursday 8:00 am – 5:30 pm, and Friday 8:00 am - 4:30 pm. During spring and fall semesters, the Wilder Student Union BlueGrey Café &amp; Grill is open Monday - Thursday from 8:00 am – 6:00 pm and Friday from 8:00 am – 2:00 pm. If you have questions about dining services, please call 731.425.1976. Next steps after being admitted First, you need to activate your University of Memphis email account by contacting the Help Desk at 901.678.8888. Have your acceptance letter in hand when you call. Next, first-time freshmen should register for New Student Orientation. Visit our Orientation website for details. Transfer students should contact us at 731.427.4725 to set up an appointment with your advisor. Finally, be sure that you have applied for financial aid. Visit the Financial Aid Office website for more information. Purchasing books The UofM Lambuth Bookstore is located in the Wilder Student Union building. It is open for regular hours Monday – Thursday 8:00 am – 5:30 pm, and Friday 8:00 am - 4:30 pm. Their direct phone number is 731.425.1958. Testing Center Our Testing Center is located in Hyde Hall on the 3rd floor. Contact Antoinette Smith for details. Getting a transcript To request a transcript from either the University of Memphis or Lambuth University, visit . Job opportunities Full- and part-time positions are posted at . Information regarding employee benefits is available at . Students interested in working on campus should visit the Student Employment website . Conducting business with the University of Memphis Please visit the Procurement Services website and open the Vendor Information page . Our location We are located on a 57-acre, tree-filled campus in Jackson, Tennessee. To learn more about Jackson, visit the Chamber of Commerce website at . Campus safety UofM Lambuth is patrolled at all times by University of Memphis security personnel. Click here for more information about Lambuth Campus Police Services . Social media Be sure to "Like" us on Facebook . About About the UofM Lambuth Contacts UofM Lambuth Contacts News News &amp; Events at the UofM Lambuth Programs Academic Programs Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .