#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/pdfs/internships-and-assistantships.pdf
Internships Location Program Information Contact Unpaid/Paid Center for Transforming Communities Community Development Amy Moritz 901 - 324 - 3005 Amymoritz@comcast.net Unpaid Making a Difference in Memphis Volunteer Leadership Development Inst. Dr. Carrie Allison Brooks 901 - 409 - 7673 carrieb@memphis.edu Unpaid Memphis College of Art Career Ser vices Assistant Dr. Carrie Allison Brooks 901 - 409 - 7673 carrieb@memphis.edu Memphis College of Art Student Services Susan Miller 901 - 272 - 5152 smiller@mca.edu Unpaid Midsouth Community College (Arkansas) Student Services Unpaid Northwest Mississippi Community College Student Services & Administration Richie Lawson relawson@northwestms.e du Unpaid Southwest Tennessee Community College Student Affairs & Academic Affairs Dr. Cynthia Calhoun 901 - 333 - 4265 or 901 - 333 - 5950 ccalhoun@southwest.tn.edu Unpaid S Research Hospital Academic Programs Trainee Housing Intern Paid University of Memphis Academic Counseling Center Dr. Carl Chando 901 - 678 - 2062 ccha ndo@memphis.edu Unpaid University of Memphis Admissions Gloria Moore 901 - 678 - 3995 gmoore@memphis.edu Unpaid University of Memphis CARES (Student Retention) Melissa C ampbell 901 - 678 - 2764 mrcmpbl1@memphis.edu Unpaid University of Memphis Center for Athletic Academic Services Bob Baker, Director rhbaker@memphis.edu 678 - 3467 Unpaid University of Memphis Center for Athletic Academic Services Kristin Williams khenke@memphis.edu $1200/month University of Memph is Educational Support Program Dr. Barbara Bekis 901 - 678 - 2704 bbekis@memphis.edu Unpaid University of Memphis Studies Dr. Robe rt Blanton 678 - 2395 rblanton@memphis.edu . Inquire with Dr. Akey 901 - 678 - 3993 wakey@memphis.edu University of Memphis Multicultural Affairs Lonnie Latham 901 - 678 - 2054 llatham@memphis.edu Unpaid University of Memphis Residence Life & Dining Services Sean Armstrong 901 - 678 - 5202 Armstrong - Sean@ aramark.com Paid University of Memphis Student Disability Office Susan TePaske 901 - 678 - 2880 stepaske@memphis.edu Unpaid University of Memphis Student Leadership & Greek Affairs Justin Lawhead 901 - 678 - 2094 jtlawhead@memphis.edu Unpaid University of Memphis Student/Affairs & Academic Affairs D r. Stephanie Blaisdell 901 - 678 - 5426 s.blaisdell@memphis.edu Unpaid University of Memphis Major Event Planning and Assessment of Student Affairs programs Dan Bureau 9 01 - 678 - 2826 dabureau@memphis.edu Unpaid University of Memphis Transfer Student Services Karen Thurmond 901 - 678 - 2588 kthurmnd@memphis.edu Unpaid University of South C arolina Office of Student Engagement Kimberly Dressler (803)777 - 2142 kdressler@sc.edu Paid Graduate Assistantships Location Program Information Contact Paid/Tuition Bapti st Memorial College of Health Sciences Center for Academic Excellence (CAE) Carolyn Danley, M.S. 901 - 572 - 2502 Carolyn.danley@bchs.edu Paid/Yes Rhodes College Residence Life Marianne Luther 901 - 843 - 3241 lutherm@rhodes.edu Paid/Yes Rhodes College Student Affairs Carol Casey casey@rhodes.edu Paid/Yes University of Memphis Adult & Commuter Student Services Marketing, Communication & Social Media Joy R. Stout 901 - 678 - 2644 acss @memphis.edu Paid/Yes University of Memphis Adult & Commuter Student Services Special Event Coordinator Joy R. Stout 901 - 678 - 2644 acss@memphis.edu Paid/Yes University of Memp his Adult & Commuter Student Services Student Leadership & Development Joy R. Stout 901 - 678 - 2644 acss@memphis.edu Paid/Yes University of Memphis Department of Leadership (Servi ce) Courtney Orians 901 - 678 - 5229 cckelly@memphis.edu Paid/Yes University of Memphis Department of Leadership (Service) Cathy Wilhelm 901 - 678 - 2797 cwilhelm@memphis.edu P aid/Yes University of Memphis Financial Aid Karen Smith kasmith@memphis.edu Paid/Yes University of Memphis Office of Student Conduct Ben Morton 901 - 678 - 2298 bemorton@memphis.edu Paid/Yes University of Memphis Residence Life Peter Groenendyk Paid/Yes 901 - 678 - 2295 petercg@memphis.edu University of Memphis Student Affairs airs/assistantships.htm Paid/Yes Internship Job Descriptions Making a Difference in Memphis : Volunteer Leadership Development Institute Dates needed: Spring 2012 Semester Contact: Carrie Allison Brooks, Director 901 - 409 - 7673 or carrieb@memphis.edu makingadifferenceinememphis.org Making a Difference in gifts to resolve community issues and contribute to the greater good in Memphis. is to build a very of their own gifts and empowering them to contribute to the quality of life in their community. The model for MDM is a highly successful national faculty and leadership development program that has universal application for adult learners. MDM promot es education for development , which involves more than just teaching a particular skill or presenting new information. MDM pushes learners beyond simply attaining new knowledge or learning how to do something better; it requires participants to examine who they are as learners, how they learn, think about the community, work within the context of their personal and professional lives, and make decisions. They then think about the audience they will teach/lead and apply those same questions to become more ef fective communicators, enabling them to foster important discussions as well as commitments to action that positively impact a community issue. MDM's philosophy is: "you teach/lead who you are" (Parker Palmer). Program Goal and Projects The goal of MDM is to equip committed volunteer participants in the Memphis area with the tools and structure necessary to develop high - quality, self - directed projects that positively impact the community. Projects utilize the adult learning and development models presented and applied at the Institute. Currently, there are 27 projects in progress that address community issues including but not limited to: infant mortality, elder abuse, and teen pregnancy prevention; re - entry programs for women who have been incarcerated; fa mily literacy; cultural competence; and educational programs to increase self - esteem and graduation rates among young men. Participants can choose to focus their work for different purposes or settings including educational presentations for churches, co mmunity groups, or co - workers; curricula or programs targeted for specific interest groups, K - 12, or college students; policy - oriented research and/or action plans; and many, many more. Leadership Definition MDM is a volunteer leadership development in stitute that utilizes the following leadership definition written by UM Professor, Patricia H. Murrell: It further involves the ability to mobilize those resour ces in realizing a vision, reaching a goal, or resolving a problem. It starts with who we are and then moves to what we do. Intern responsibilities: The intern who works with t his program will assist with the Spring 2013 class. The class will meet a total of three weekends, each meeting on Friday evenings and all day Saturday. In addition to the program meetings times, there will be planning meetings (approximately three), set u p before each weekend session, and a debriefing meeting. Following are particular activities in which the intern will have the opportunity to participate: Coordinate planning and implementation of a grant - funded project that provides leadership developmen t for volunteers. Assist with the planning and design of the MDM curriculum, that is grounded in experiential learning and includes adult learning and development theory. Serve as faculty and mentor to participants during Institute. Assist with developmen t of MDM web site. Compile Institute evaluation. Assist with Institute logistics. Intern qualifications: counseling or related field and University of Memphis. Memphis College of Art, Career Services Assistant Current opening: Fall 2012 and Spring 2013 Semesters Contact: Carrie Allison Brooks, Director 901 - 272 - 5160 or cbrooks@mca.edu web site: mca.edu MCA Mission Statement Memphis College of Art is a professional center of art and design education, dedicated to preparing individuals for lives of creating, probl em solving, and critical thinking. MCA Purpose Artmaking is and has always been one of the most powerful and enduring endeavors of humankind. Every people, every culture, every era has made art in every circumstance. Education is as essential to the so cial condition as art is to the human condition. Through education we preserve, impart, and expand our collective disciplines and wisdom. h requires mastery of the skills, tools and technologies of the visual arts; and the liberal arts tradition, which requires education in the truest sense, not only imparting facts and ideas, but also fostering critical appraisal of them. Intern responsib ilities: engaged with and serving students. Following are particular activities in which the intern will have the opportunity to par ticipate: Counsel students and alumni on aspects of career development; Conduct career workshops, assist with Career Fair (Spring only), career guest speakers, and recruiter visits; Assist in communications with art - related businesses, non - profits and alu mni for student opportunities such as jobs, internships, calls for entries and volunteer positions; Assist with the Give Back Program, a community service work study program; and Assist with QEP assessment of activities. Intern qualifications: Persons in University of Memphis. Memp his College of Art, Student Services Contact: Susan Miller, Vice President for Enrollment & Student Affairs tel: 901 272 - 5152 smiller@mca.edu Memphis College of Art is a small private, accredited visual arts c ollege offering both undergraduate and graduate degrees in the visual arts and education. With an enrollment of 450 students, interns can work with student affairs staff and receive hands - on learning experience in the following areas: Student Life includ ing activities, student government, clubs, housing, and disciplinary processes; Career Services; Financial Aid; and Enrollment Management including retention committee work. Student Affairs & Academic Affairs at Southwest Tennessee Community College Grad uate students seeking internship experiences at a community college can expect to come right in and contribute to the work within the college to promote student success. Various learning opportunities are available. The Student Retention and Graduation Office offers the Southwest Mentors Advancing Retention, Teamwork, and Success (SMARTS) program where interns can contribute to the recruitment and matching of students with faculty and staff for a semester. Planning orientation, focus groups, and a culmi nating experience are areas for which interns can participate. We are also leading a student success initiative, which addresses transforming the college culture to strengthen our student - centered environment and to accelerate students to degree or certif icate completion in a shorter period of time. The Office will be launching an electronic early alert intervention pilot during the next academic year. Interns attend meetings with the Executive Director to see how decision making takes place. Addition ally, professional development opportunities offered by the college are attended by staff and interns. Other departments where students may be interested in completing an internship are Recruitment and Testing and Advising and Counseling. Cynthia B. Cal houn, Ed.D. Executive Director of Student Retention and Graduation Southwest Tennessee Community College 737 Union Avenue Memphis, TN 38103 901.333.4265 Macon 901.333.5950 Union 901.333.5244 Fax Academic Programs Trainee Housing Intern at St. Jude Child Trainee Housing Internship Title: Trainee Housing Intern Department: Academic Programs and Biomedical Sciences Hours per Week: To be decided Job Summary: Under the direction of the Education Coordinator, Intern will be respon sible for the general administration and oversight of the temporary housing units. This will include, but not be limited to, the everyday administration and oversight of the apartments in coordination with the staff in Academic Programs and the management at Uptown Square Apartments. Intern will be responsible for integrating single projects into the master plan. Resource allocation and inventory management will be key components of the internship and intern will learn related purchasing processes. The intern will also be responsible for the visibility and advertisement of the housing units via the St. Jude intranet and internet and develop ideas for enhancing current practices, to include launching a customer satisfaction survey for the tenants. The in tern will cross train with other areas/units in Academic Programs and provide support to projects which parallel this position including: National Graduate Student Symposium, Pediatric Oncology Program, Paris VII Program, University of Bath Program, UT st udent rotations and lab scheduling, and professional development for the Postdoctoral Fellows to assess trainee/guest housing needs and assist with housing assignments. Intern Responsibilities: 1. Determines housing needs, and maintains and implements struct ures to support the needs. a. Identifies trainee housing needs to include units required, dates needed, and housing available. b. Maintains and updates all housing leases and coordinates all related logistics operations. c. Develops an overall project plan for trai nee housing. d. Creates and maintains a Frequently Asked Questions brochure/section on the website. e. Develops and administers a Customer Satisfaction Survey to evaluate current processes. 2. Determines all housing support functions needed for each program area an d establishes aggregate month by month requirements. 3. Develops project planning data, timelines, milestones, and critical path planning related to each project. 4. Serves as a liaison with all program directors and department administration to assist with bud get development and requests for staff support. a. Interacts with faculty, staff, students, St. Jude Immigration Services Office, and outside/community entities in facilitating program objectives. 5. Oversees staff temporarily assigned to assist with housing pro cesses and projects. 6. Audits housing activities and prepares documents for compliance with both St. Jude Institutional and Academic Programs (APO) departmental policies. a. Ensures all housing documents are complete, current, and archived appropriately. 7. Perfor ms other related duties as assigned or directed to meet the goals and objectives of the department and the Institution. Minimum Education Required: Graduate level student; preferably in the area Leadership and Policy Studies with a concentration in Studen t Personnel. Experience: Work experience in a customer service related or business environment is desirable. Minimum Skills, Knowledge, and Abilities Required: Experience with project management, implementation, and reporting. Skills and abilities to handle and prioritize multiple tasks and assignments. Ability to work with a wide range of constituencies in a complex environment. Strong oral and written communication skills. Ability to communicate with people from diverse backgrounds. Ability to compo se reports and other business communications. Excellent computer skills using Microsoft Office applications with extensive knowledge of Pivot table a plus. Project Management or Visio software knowledge desirable. Skill and ability to work independently a nd successfully in stressful situations. Reasoning ability, strong concentration skills, attention to detail, and ability to analyze and apply accurate judgment to complex issues. Budgeting and financial management skills/experience helpful. Excellent inte rpersonal skills. Physical Demands and Working Conditions: Regularly required to stand, walk, sit, kneel, use fingers/hands, and talk and hear. Employee must occasionally lift and/or move up to 25 pounds. Specific vision abilities required by this interns hip include close vision, depth perception, and the ability to adjust focus. Square Apartments as needed. Compensation: $10 - 12 an hour. Internship does not constitute a contract of employment, nor does it provide benefits. Other: Intern must show proof of immunizations required by St. Jude. Intern must provide proof of medical insurance. Intern must provide statement of financial responsibility. Int drug screen. Intern is required to attend a mandatory orientation at St. Jude. CARES (Student Retention) Academic Retention & Enrichment Services Small group counseling with students on Academic Warning Individual counseling with students on Academic Warning (if space is available) Research w/ Academic Warning surveys Email counseling with academic probation students Present workshops for academic p robation students Help create workshops for academic probation students Shadow weekly counseling with returning suspension students Perform weekly counseling with probation students (if space is available) on and suspensions students Melissa Campbell, Retention Counselor Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services The University of Memphis 500 Wilder Tower Memphis, TN 38152 - 3520 901 - 678 - 2764 mrcmpbl1@memp his.edu Center for Athletic Academic Services Internship working with student - athletes; included but not limited to one on one work with at - risk and freshman student - athletes, overseeing study hall, assisting staff with academic advising, participating in ongoing training/education. The athletic academic services profession is growing every year with multiple entry level job openings all over the country, usually with very competitive salary and benefit packages. Entry level positions in this profes sion require a minimum of a graduate degree and one year of experience. If you are passionate about education, helping students and about athletics, this is a great opportunity to gain experience in a rapidly growing profession. Bob Baker, Director rhbaker@memphis.edu 678 - 3467 Full Time Internship Opportunity/Assistant Academic Counselor Athletic Academic Services Internship Applications are invited for the three full time internship positions in the Center f or Athletic Academic Services (CAAS) at the University of Memphis for the 2014 - 15 year (June - May). The internal title for this position is Assistant Academic Counselor. This position is intended to give real life, hands - on experience and to prepare individ uals for a full time position advising student - athletes at the collegiate level. This experience also includes assisting with the intensive Summer Bridge - athletes. Primary Duties and Respon sibilities The Assistant Academic Counselor will be responsible for assisting in the day to day operation of the center, including, but not limited to, mentoring student - athletes, advisement of selected student - athletes, monitoring the academic progress o f selected athletes, supervising study hall, assisting in the coordination of the tutoring program, student - athlete orientation, unofficial initial eligibility evaluations of prospective student - athletes, conducting recruiting visits, and completion of pro jects as assigned by the Director & Associate Director. The Assistant Academic Counselor will also participate in a formal weekly training seminar taught by the CAAS Staff to enhance and develop skills to prepare for a career in athletic academic advising. A manual will be provided as a resource for training throughout the one year experience. Essential Functions Ability to adhere to NCAA rules and the Family Educational Rights to Privacy Act (FERPA). Must have strong interpersonal skills, attention to deta il and the ability to set appropriate professional boundaries with student - athletes. Must be able to serve as a positive role model for student - athletes. Must be willing to work a flexible schedule, including early morning, evening and weekend work. Abilit y to communicate effectively. Qualifications Master's degree required with preference given to an educational background in Student Personnel, Social Work, Counseling, Education or Sport Administration. Preference is also given to applicants who have compl eted a Graduate Assistantship in the Athletic Academic Services profession and/or have an N4A membership. Must be able to articulate an understanding of the needs of academically at - risk student - athletes and have a desire to obtain full - time employment in the Athletic Academic Services profession. Compensation $1,200/month How to Apply Submit cover letter, resume, and reference list to Kristin Williams, Associate Director Center for Athletic Academic Services, 600 Wilder Tower, Memphis, TN 38152 - 3520, Fax (901) 678 - 4695, khenke@memphis.edu. Review of resumes will begin March 1, 2014, and continue until the positions are filled. at The University of Memphis throughout the state of Tennessee. The programs cover a wide variety of areas, ranging from Humanities to Compu tational Physics. The University of Memphis is home to one of the largest and most well established of the U of M, which will run from Saturday, June 1, 2013 u ntil Saturday, June 29, 2013. It provides a four - week immersive experience into global issues and cultures, including six hours of University - level coursework, language training, and experiential activities. The GSIS Intern Experience The GSIS intern will work with the GSIS Director and staff in several key areas, including: Program assessment, specifically the design, collection, and summarization of a comprehensive evaluation instrument(s) to be reported to the Tennessee Department of Education. Map ping strategies to put the results of the assessment into practice in future years, and determining priorities for program improvement along these lines Communicating with and providing services to GSIS applicants, participants, parents, faculty and guest s. Assisting with various logistics related to GSIS, such as admissions, housing, dining, classroom and activities. Dates of Service and Internship Credit While the actual program runs through the month of June, interns will be needed throughout the spring, when the review of applications begin and we begin to contact students. The evaluation instrument will also be designed during this period. During the actual school in June there are daily activities and logistical needs to be addressed including t he administration of the assessment instrument. Interns are needed throughout this process and credit hours (3 6 hours) are dependent upon the time served. For more information, and to arrange an interview, please contact Dr. Robert Blanton, the GSIS Director at 678 - 2395 or rblanton@memphis.edu . Residence Life & Dining Services Event Marketing Internship Department of Residence Life and Dining Services As an event marketing intern, this particular student will focus on learning and producing marketing initiatives that campus and increase overall participation between the University of Memphis and T iger Dining. Promotions Assist in the development of promotions and maintain events in order to increase sales. - campus advertisements. Support Dining Services by producing and m aintain a semester calendar of special events. Aid in the management of corporate retail promotions. Graphics / Website Ability to use Word Templates to produce the proper Brand proprietary communication pieces for Dining Services. Supply promotional i nformation to ARAMARK District Graphic Designer. Update current website with menu changes, dining information, and photographs by supplying the Webmaster with information via email. Be able to communicate with the Webmaster monthly promotions in retail o n a timely basis. Preferably one month in advance. Time - Management Ability to prioritize tasks in order to meet deadlines. Strong organizational skills. Self motivated to accomplish tasks with minimal instruction. Commitment to work when needed to ac complish set tasks. Communication Display accurate and effective communication skills via email, phone, written, and oral. Able to set meetings with Director of Residence Life, Food Service Director, Marketing Manager, and team to discuss upcoming even ts, current needs and assess new opportunities with products and services. Assist in Orientations to inform and sell dining memberships to incoming students. Converse with students, faculty, and staff to ensure customer satisfaction. For more informati on or to apply, please contact Sean Armstrong, Marketing Manager at Armstrong - Sean@aramark.com or 901 - 678 - 5202. Student Disability Office All internship positions at SDS are tailored to meet the current needs of the SDS office, and the work experience an d educational experience and interests of the prospective intern. Student Leadership & Greek Affairs The Office of Student Leadership and Involvement provides programs and opportunities through which students may become meaningfully involved in campus l ife. Our programs and activities support the Student Life mission of enhancing overall personal development. These programs and initiatives include campus wide entertainment, cultural and educational programs (concerts, speakers, etc.), Greek organization s, volunteer services, leadership training, recognition , and student organizations. St udent Affairs/Student Development The A ssistant V ice P resident of Student Affairs/Student Development office works with the following departments: Career Services; C enter for C ounseling, Learning & Testing; Student Affairs Learning & Assessment; Student Disability Services; Student Health Services; and Student Success Programs. The AVP also represents Student Affairs on the Retention Committee and University Strategi c Planning Facilitation Committee and oversees strategic planning for Student Affairs. An intern in the AVP office may be involved in activities related to any of these functions. Student Affairs/ Major Event Planning & Assessment Major Event Planning Responsibilities (75 hours) The practicum student serves an important role in supporting major campus events and examining the efficacy of the events for future improvements. This person will: Help with planning and implementation of Commencement, Faculty Convocation, Honors Assembly, New Student Convocation and Alpha Lambda Delta Honor Society Initiation Assist in the management of details for all events including compiling guest lists and working on seating charts Support Coordinator of Commencement and S tudent Affairs Special Events, Commencement Office Administrative Assistant and the Director of Student Affairs Learning and Assessment (supervisor to Commencement Office) in efforts to communicate with parties participating in these events Lead assessment efforts to improve each event Assessment (75 hours) The practicum student provides a supportive role and aids deans and directors with efforts to assess programs across diverse functional areas within student affairs. This person will: Meet with deans an d directors to map out strategies to assess student learning and development as a result of their programs Help deans and directors and the Director of Student Learning and Assessment implement assessment activities Support deans and directors and the Dire ctor of Student Learning and Assessment in analyzing assessment results and determining priorities for program improvement. Office of Student Engagement 2013 Summer Internship Positions About Student Engagement The Office of Student Engagement (OSE) at the University of South Carolina encourages students to engage in learning without limits both within and beyond the classroom. Through partnerships with academic and student affairs units, OSE fosters integrative learning and assists students in connec ting to University resources and programs. The Office directly manages the work of several high - impact areas including Service - Learning, Domestic Study Away, and Engagement Research and Initiatives (the sophomore initiative, cross - campus coordination of pe er leadership, faculty - student interaction, the National Survey of Student Engagement and Student Engagement Planning). Visit for more informati on about the office. Timeline Friday, January 25, 2013 . - campus if a USC student, by phone if not in the area) - Feb. 4 - 6, 2013 - Feb. 14 - 15, 2013 Int ernship Specifics - 30 hour per week internship - July 26, 2013(negotiable). a degree in higher education or student affairs. Students who are preparing to enter graduate programs in higher education or student affairs in the Fall of 2013 are welcome to apply. Internship Positions (2 positions available) Student Engagement Inte rnship this position will work directly to plan and implement specific initiatives that support hands on projects and research initiatives interns. Specific projects may include: coordinating summer internships with the SCCC Healthy Families Grant, analyzing and researching the Peer Leadership experience, scheduling U niversity 101 presentations for the Student Engagement Plan and National Student Exchange Sessions, Creating a bi - monthly newsletter for OSE, coordinating aspects of the National Student Exchange program, planning fall OSE events (annual Sophomore Septembe r program), working on marketing and logo development for OSE, planning fall GA training and other duties as assigned. Interns will be required to attend regular Office of Student Engagement staff meetings along with Division of Student Affairs professiona l development opportunities. Applying Interested candidates should submit a cover letter, résumé, and three references to Kimberly Dressler, Office of Student imberly if you have any questions at (803)777 - 2142 or kdressler@sc.edu . Graduate Assistant Job Descriptions Baptist Memorial College of Health Sciences Job Title: Graduate Assistant Unit: Center for Academic Excellence (CAE) Corporation: Bapt ist Memorial College of Health Sciences Reports to: Director of CAE Purpose of Position and Scope of Responsibility: This position is responsible for working with the Director of the CAE and the CAE staff to provide success coaching to students through individual consulting and group presentation on topics such as study skills, test taking skills, metacognition, time management, life balance, and overall student success strategies in their selected program. Job requirements/qualifications: Graduate st udent in Education Leadership, counseling, student personnel or related field Excellent written and oral communication skills Strong interpersonal skills Ability to manage multiple projects and timelines Ability to work effectively independently and within teams Proficiency in Microsoft office software (word, powerpoint, outlook, Excel) Principal Accountabilities/Responsibilities: Conduct one - on - one success planning/ coaching sessions with students that may include but are not limited to study skills, test taking skills, time management, critical thinking or personal accountability. Support the CAE by assisting with tutor training and CAE Orientations and student workshops. Provide presentations to the student body on student success topics Maintain st udent contact and follow up on progress towards academic success plan Make appropriate referrals to resources in the college that may assist students in overall success. to CAE and BCHS policies and procedures Prepare reports for documentation and assessment of success coaching outcomes. Perform related accountabilities/r esponsibilities as required or directed Environmental Conditions: Work is performed under basically normal working conditions, as in a standard office environment. Stipend $1,000 per month Term: 20 hours per week Rhodes College Graduate Assistantship RHODES COLLEGE, the Department of Residence Life, s eeks applications for the assistantship of Residence Life Coordi nator. Starting date: August 1, 2014 . Supervised by the Director of Residence Life, the Residence Life Coordinator is responsible for the support and effectiveness of the residence hall staff , and participation in the development of a comprehensive residence hall program for students. Open communication, regular contact with the residence life staff, and regular contact with residents are vital in helping build a proactive residence hall progr am for students. The Residence Life Coordinator may be assigned responsibilities in other functional areas of the Division of Student Affairs. REQUIREMENTS: B.A. or B.S., Residence life experience required. Full - time graduate student at the University of Memphis in the departments of Leadership, Counseling, or Educational Psychology and Research. Other departments may also be willing to sponsor this internship. BENEFITS: Apartment, full meal plan while school is in session, tuition waiver for 9 - 12 credit hours at University of Me mphis, stipend of $10 ,000 for a 10 month contract, reserved parking space and access to recreation facility. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES: Assist in the selection and training of resident assistants, directly supervise and evaluate 11 - 13 resident assistants. Supervise head RA. Assist, supervise, and evaluate resident assistants on program development and execution. Attend programs to determine effectiveness. Provide support for residents in conflict or crisis through mediation, admi nistrative intervention, or referral. Assist in the opening and closing of the halls, roommate assignments, the issuance and inventory of keys, and maintenance of buildings and contents. Share evening and weekend "on - call" status with other Residence Life Coordinator, Assistant Director and Associate Director while school is in session. Interpret college policies and procedures, conduct administrative hearings as appropriate, as well as create opportunities for resident assistants and other students to sh are in the development and evaluation of policies and procedures. Rhodes is a coeducational college of the liberal arts and sciences founded in 1848. Rhodes has been related to the he Internet at: Please send letter of application, resume and the names and phone numbers of three professional references to: Marianne Luther, D irector of Residence Life, Rhodes College, 2000 North Parkway, Memphis, TN 38112 or by email attachment, lutherm@rhodes.edu . For more information, contact the office at 901 - 843 - 3241. Rhodes College Student Affa irs GRADUATE ASSISTANTSHIP POSITION AVAILABLE RHODES COLLEGE, the Department of Residence Life, seeks applications for the assistantship of Residence Life Coordinator. Starting date: August 1, 2012. Supervised by the Director of Residence Life, the Re sidence Life Coordinator is responsible for the support and effectiveness of the residence hall staff, and participation in the development of a comprehensive residence hall program for students. Open communication, regular contact with the residence life staff, and regular contact with residents are vital in helping build a proactive residence hall program for students. The Residence Life Coordinator may be assigned responsibilities in other functional areas of the Division of Student Affairs. REQUIREMENT S: B.A. or B.S., Residence life experience required. Full - time graduate student at the University of Memphis in the departments of Leadership, Counseling, or Educational Psychology and Research. Other departments may also be willing to sponsor this intern ship. BENEFITS: Apartment, full meal plan while school is in session, tuition waiver for 9 credit hours at University of Memphis, stipend of $11,000 for a 10 month contract, reserved parking space and access to recreation facility. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBI LITIES: Assist in the selection and training of resident assistants, directly supervise and evaluate 11 - 13 resident assistants. Supervise head RA and help advise RA work group. Assist, supervise, and evaluate resident assistants on program development a nd execution. Attend programs to determine effectiveness. Provide support for residents in conflict or crisis through mediation, administrative intervention or referral. Assist in the opening and closing of the halls, roommate assignments, the issuance and inventory of keys, and maintenance of buildings and contents. Share evening and weekend "on - call" status with other Residence Life Coordinator, Assistant Director and Associate Director while school is in session. Interpret college policies and pro cedures, conduct administrative hearings as appropriate, as well as create opportunities for resident assistants and other students to share in the development and evaluation of policies and procedures. Rhodes is a coeducational college of the liberal art s and sciences founded in 1848. Rhodes has been related to the 31.asp Please send letter of application, resume and the names and phone numbers of three professional references to: Marianne Luther, Director of Residence Life, Rhodes College, 2000 North Parkway, Memphis, TN 38112 or by email attachment, lutherm@rhodes.edu . For more information, contact the office at 901 - 843 - 3241. Adult & Commuter Student Services Marketing, Communication & Social Media E - newsletter: Designs layout and generates content for the ACSS monthl y e - newsletter; Publishes the newsletter monthly by the 5 th day; Composes e - mail blasts to send out to our list - serv; manages the ACSS e - mail list Social Networking: Post daily tweets and Facebook wall messages for student and community engagement and int eraction using third - party software; Posts weekly blog articles; responds to general inquiries from social media accounts; Posts ACSS events/news and photos; solicits new followers and fans; incorporates social media/interactive components in our monthly s eminars Office Statistics: Works with ACSS staff and student organizations to compile assessment data from all events; Compiles reports of office use by students; Prepares reports For detailed job descriptions and instructions on applying for any of our positions, please visit Adult & Commuter Student Services Special Event Coordinator Off Campus Housing Inform ation Fair (OCHIF): Coordinate all planning and activities related to the Off Campus Housing Information Fair, including contacting returning and new vendors to solicit participation, tracking all monies received, receipts, spreadsheets, and other expendi tures, mailing, e - mailing, and faxing OCHIF materials; Advertising on campus and at area colleges; Act as main liaison during the fair; Administer student and vendor evaluations, compiling data into a report immediately following the fair Monthly Training Seminars: Obtain facilitator/speaker for planned seminars; Invite ACAD instructors to bring their classes (schedule the seminars around ACAD class meeting days/times); scheduling & confirming the date, time, and location with presenters and ACAD instructo rs; Create flyers to distribute across campus and via the web; Ensuring that students complete and turn in their seminar evaluation forms and sign in at each seminar; Take pictures using the digital camera; Compile survey result data of each training semin ar For detailed job descriptions and instructions on applying for any of our positions, please visit Adult & Commuter Student Services Student Leadership & Development General Overview: develop, present and review a variety of social and educational progr ams; Works closely with the students involved in Adult Student Association, Commuter Student Association, Veteran Student Organization and Adult Student Mentoring Program by serving as an advisor; Attends meetings and planning sessions; works with the spec ified student organizations in the areas of leadership and event programming; Serves as a resource for services, facilities, and contact information Specific Responsibilities: Assist with coordination of organizational events, including Commuter Student Appreciation Week, Adult Student Awareness Week, Veterans Day collaborations and organizational seminars; Assists organizations with marketing effort s across campus in an effort to increase awareness, participation and partnerships; Connects student leaders with Leadership Programs offered by the University; Coordinates activities and assessment of the Adult Student Peer Networking (Mentoring) Program For detailed job descriptions and instructions on applying for any of our positions, please visit Office of St udent Conduct Position: Graduate Assistant (GA) Supervisor: Benjamin Morton, Associate Dean of Students Position Description/Job Responsibilities: Review police reports that involve University of Memphis students Investigate alleged violation(s) of the University Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities Meet with students involved in the University disciplinary process (complainant, victim, witness or respondent) Recommend appropriate disciplinary action for students found respo nsible for violation of the University Code Assist with maintenance of University of Memphis disciplinary records Monitor student progress related to disciplinary sanctions imposed by the Office of Student Conduct Meet regularly with the Associate Dean an d other office staff to continuously improve office procedures/processes Qualifications: Bachelor's degree and enrollment in a graduate degree program at The University of Memphis. Counseling background preferred. Candidate should possess strong interpersonal skills (written and verbal) as well as the ability to work with verse student population.