#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/pdfs/hiad-7060-8060-syllabus.pdf
The University of Memphis - 1 - Updated 8 - 27 - 1 4 College of Education Health and Human Sciences The University of Memphis Department of Leadership Higher and Adult Education HIAD 7060/8060 Internship in Higher and Adult Education College of Education , Health and Human Sciences Norms I take 1 00% responsibility. I seek equity of voice. I am willing to talk about sensitive issues. I listen for understanding. I appreciate the strengths and contributions of others. I bring positive energy and encouragement to the team. I commit to the mission of t he college. HIAD 7060/8060 INTERNSHIP IN HIGHER AND ADULT EDUCATION Course Description: Internship in Higher and Adult Education . (1 - 6). Work experiences in a higher education institution or in an adult education setting under supervision of a practicing professional and university supervisor. May be repeated for maximum of 6 credits. Prerequisites: 1). Permission of the instructor . 2). Approval from you r advisor or major professor on the planned internship experience . Text(s): None (see the assign ments section for required reading) . Professor of record : Jeffery L. Wilson, PhD Associate Professor Department of Leadership Higher & Adult Education Program Browning Hall Room 313 901 - 678 - 3428 j.l.wilson@me mphis.edu Support of Conceptual Framework: This course provides field experiences to help students prepare for leadership roles in diverse college environments or other institutions which provide adult learning opportunities. The University of Memphis - 2 - Updated 8 - 27 - 1 4 Methods of Instruction : Fie ld experience, participation in regular activities at the internship site, reflection. Key Assessments: Record of work activities, artifact collection, annotated article and web site summaries, and final statement of goal accomplishment. Course Objective s: To gain experience working with students or other clientele in a college setting or other learning environment. To gain experience in problem - solving, decision - making, creative and critical thinking, planning, and providing direct service to clientel e in a college setting or other learning environment. To gain interpersonal skills appropriate to the work setting, such as: written and oral communication, individual and/or group intervention, collaboration, leadership, team building, teaching, consulti ng, counseling, advising, and/or supervision. To gain an understanding of the basic functions of the organization and responsibilities of employees at the internship site. To gain the skills required for working with special populations. To use technolo gy as appropriate to the setting. To practice professional and ethical behavior as required by the setting. Assignments, Exams, and Grading Criteria: 1. The student should identify an internship site and a member of the professional staff willing to serve identified should be appropriate to the academic and professional goals that the student seeks to realize through the internship experience. Discuss the proposed organization with your sponsoring professor early on. advisor/major professor must ap prove the proposed internship and notify me via e - mail of her/his approval. 2. The student will develop a concise statement of professional and academic objectives that he/she aspires to re alize during the internship. Review the proposed objectives with your sponsoring professor and site supervisor/mentor before you begin the internship. The final statement of objectives should have approval signatures from the professor and supervisor/mento r. The University of Memphis - 3 - Updated 8 - 27 - 1 4 3. The student must work a minimum of ten hours per week for 15 weeks to earn three semester hours of credit ( 150 hours total ) . The total hours should parallel the academic calendar. The working day schedule should support the activities of the sponsoring organization. Summer internships will require more hours per week to realize the required 150 hours. 4. During the internship the student should maintain a log of work activities. The log should cite the date, hours worked, and nature of the work activ ity. The student should also collect artifacts pertinent to the internship, e.g., agenda for meetings, written work products, etc. 5. A mid - term review is required whereby the site supervisor provides the student with a written progress report of his/her exp erience in the internship. The student will submit the progress report to the sponsoring professor. 6. The student will read 5 scholarly journal articles and visit 3 websites that are related to the primary function of the internship site and incorporat e that information into their final product (see #7). 7. The final product for the internship will contain the following five aspects: 1) the approved objectives for the experience; 2) the work log; 3) the artifact collection; 4) the summaries of articles written statement delineating how the approved academic and professional goals have been achieved through specific internship activities. The final product should be approve d by the site supervisor/mentor and given to the sponsoring professor on the first day of the final examination period . Remember to not include materials that identify students (or clients) at your internship site. Remember to maintain strict confidentiality protocols as prescribed by FERPA and you r internship site . Course Requirements: Students are required to work 10 hours per week for 15 weeks (to total 150 contact hours on - site) . Since the summer term is shorter more hours per week will be required to obtain the 150 hours . The schedule and other work requirements should be negotiated with the on - site supervisor and approved by the sponsoring professor . Completion of all assignments will be required for a passing grade. Grading : S (satisfactory) or U (unsa tisfactory). Americans with Disabilities Act : The University of Memphis does not discriminate on the basis of disability in the recruitment and admission of students, the recruitment and employment of faculty and staff, and the operation of any of its p rograms and activities, as specified by federal laws and regulations. The student has the responsibility of informing the course instructor (at the beginning of the course) of any disabling condition, which will require modification to avoid discrimination . Faculty are required by law to provide "reasonable accommodation" to students with disabilities, so as not to The University of Memphis - 4 - Updated 8 - 27 - 1 4 discriminate on the basis of that disability. Student responsibility primarily rests with informing faculty at the beginning of the semester and in providing authorized documentation through designated administrative channels. Written Assignments and Academic Misconduct : All written work submitted must be American Psychological Asso ciation (APA) available online and via their publications. This means that any substantive ideas, phrases, sentences, and/or any published ideas must be properly k now all relevant university policies concerning plagiarism . Any documented cases of plagiarism can and will result in dismissal from the course with a failing grade, and may result in other more serious sancti ons by the College of Education, Health and Hum an Sciences.