#http://blogs.memphis.edu/explorectl/
The University of Memphis Center for Teaching and Learning | Explore, Collaborate, and Learn The University of Memphis Center for Teaching and Learning Explore, Collaborate, and Learn Search Menu Main menu Skip to primary content Skip to secondary content Home About CTL CTL Mission Facutly Resources Faculty Workshops Student Resources eCourseware Technology Coaches Learning Technologies for Tigers Post navigation &larr; Older posts Longer Laptop Battery Life Posted on October 7, 2015 by Jessica Johnson Laptops allow you to get work done no matter where you are. The only downside is your laptop won’t last all day once you unplug it. Here are a few ways to help your battery go the distance. Is your battery fully charged? Before you take your laptop with you on the go, make sure the battery is fully charged. Laptops can take several hours to charge, so let your laptop charge overnight. Use battery saver mode. Your laptop comes with built-in power management settings. These settings will help to optimize battery life by reducing power consumption. Turn off anything you aren’t using. External devices and features such as Bluetooth drain your battery. You can extend your battery life by unplugging or disabling anything you aren’t using; this includes Wi-Fi. Don’t multitask. Running several programs at once requires more processing powers which drains more power. Working on one task at a time will help your battery last longer. You can also try using software that use less features. For example you can type in a simple text file instead of a Word Document. Other Options Defrag your hard drive so your system operates more efficiently. Upgrade to a solid-state drive which saves energy by using flash memory instead of moving parts. Buy an extra battery to take with you on the go. Posted in Facutly Resources , Student Resources Computer Disposal Posted on September 16, 2015 by Jessica Johnson Disposing of your computer is not as easy as it seems. Not only do computers contain personal information, they also contain potentially hazardous materials. Here are a few ways that you can dispose of your computer safely Note Before you dispose of your computer it is important to back up all of your data. Using data wiping software will delete the contents of your hard drive. Click here to learn more about backing up your computer. Cleaning you Hard Drive You cannot clean your hard drive by simply deleting files. It is easy for these deleted files to be recovered using a data recovery program. The only way to permanently remove data is to overwrite and wipe your hard drive. There are a variety of free programs that you can use to overwrite your hard drive. For more information about overwriting you hard drive click here . Now What? There is more than one way to dispose of your computer. First, there are many benefits to recycling your computer and it very easy to do. Also, many retailers offer both online and in-store recycling. If you do not recycle your computer, you may decide to donate or resell it. You can find more information about computer disposal on the FTC Consumer Information page . Posted in Facutly Resources , Student Resources Protecting Your Laptop Posted on August 6, 2015 by Jessica Johnson Antivirus software is one way to protect your laptop, but you should also protect your laptop from theft. A stolen laptop can lead to loss of important data, or even identity theft. Below are a few ways you can keep your laptop physically safe. Don’t leave your laptop in your car. Don’t store passwords with your laptop. Don’t put your laptop on the floor. (You might forget it’s there) Don’t leave your laptop unattended. Use a password for logging in. Use a laptop lock. Write down the serial number for your laptop. Carry your laptop in a discreet bag. Back up your data. (Keep your backup separate from your laptop) If your laptop has been stolen report it immediately to the appropriate authorities. If you fear someone may be misusing your personal information visit ftc.gov/idtheft . For more information about laptop security, click here . Posted in Facutly Resources , Student Resources Tips for Using Public Wi-Fi Posted on July 29, 2015 by Jessica Johnson Free public Wi-Fi is always convenient, but it is not always secure. Because you are sharing these networks with ton of strangers, it is important to make sure you are protected before you connect. Here are a few things to keep in mind before using public Wi-Fi. Turn off Auto Connect – This allows you more control over which networks you connect to. Only connect to secure Wi-Fi – WPA2 is the strongest type of Wi-Fi encryption. Look for https – Sites with https in the web address encrypt the data that travels from your computer to the web server. Check your firewall – Enabling your firewall helps prevent malicious software from accessing your computer through the internet. Do not enter sensitive information – Try to avoid entering sensitive information such as credit card numbers while connected to a public network. Use a VPN – A VPN secures your internet connection and encrypts all the traffic between your computer and the internet. For more information about using public Wi-Fi click Here . Posted in Facutly Resources , Student Resources Tips for Preventing Spam Posted on July 2, 2015 by Jessica Johnson Unsolicited emails can be annoying. While spam filters block most of these emails, sometimes spam can still make its way into your inbox. It is important to delete these emails because they may contain dangerous malware or viruses. Here are a few safe practices to keep in mind. Block Spammers One of the best ways to reduce the amount of spam you receive is to add senders to your blocked list. Within Outlook you can find the Block or Allows list in Options under the Accounts tab. While this will reduce the amount of spam in your inbox it will not prevent it. Spam senders often use multiple email addresses. Think Before You Share Another great way to help prevent spam is to be careful about where you share your email address. You should only give you main email address out to trusted sources. Also, before you enter your email on any websites, see what boxes are checked before you sign up. Sometimes sites will sign you up to receive email from their partners. You can also use a second email account for things like newsletters and social media. Always try to avoid posting your email address in public. Avoid Malware Never click links or download attachments from untrusted senders. Links and attachments within spam email may contain dangerous malware or viruses. Certain types of malware will target you email address book and send infected emails to other from your account. If your computer has been infected disconnect from the internet and take steps to remove the malware. Click Here for more information about spam. Posted in Facutly Resources , Student Resources Post navigation &larr; Older posts Subscribe by Email Completely spam free, opt out any time. E-mail November 2015 M T W T F S S &laquo; Oct 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 Recent Posts Longer Laptop Battery Life Computer Disposal Protecting Your Laptop Tips for Using Public Wi-Fi Tips for Preventing Spam Archives October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 Edublogs Default by Edublogs Information Technology Services | 100 Administration Bldg. | Phone: 901.678.8888 | Email:umtech@memphis.edu