#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/ldps/school_adm_supervision.php
School Administration and Supervision - LEAD - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Department of Leadership HIAD LDPS Faculty Home LEAD LDPS School Administration and Supervision School Administration and Supervision (MS) Major : Leadership and Policy Studies Concentration : School Administration and Supervision Degree : MS Contact: Larry McNeal Forms: Admission and Program Information Course Information - Licensure Only Beginning Admin (TN License) The Leadership Master's in School Administration and Supervision is currently being revised. No new applicants will be accepted now. We anticipate starting recruitment for Fall, 2015 Leadership cohort May, 2015. Persons with this degree can be employed as a principal or assistant principal of an elementary, middle, or high school; as a supervisor in an elementary, middle, or high school; or as a central office administrator. What is the work like? They have the opportunity to affect the lives of students, their parents, teachers, and other administrators. The number of persons supervised depends on the size of the school to which a person is assigned. Successful completion of responsibilities could lead to assignment to larger schools to positions in area offices, such as those in the Memphis City Schools or to positions in the office of the superintendent. Why is the CEHHS/program name the best place to start? The program is up-to-date in following national standards and additional stipulations from the Tennessee Board of Education. Its professors are involved in the establishment of programs that are modeled after national programs and are exemplars to other institutions. Professors are on the creative edge of leadership theory. Their efforts are accredited the Tennessee Board of Education and NCATE, and there is conditional accreditation by the Educational Leadership Constituent Council (ELCC). Students are involved with fieldwork and courses that deal with an introduction to educational leadership, school business management, school law, the principalship, the supervisory process, educational research, participatory governance, education and community, leadership exploration seminar, and race, ethnicity, and gender. The capstone courses that place students in the field are an internship and a culminating experience. Students completing this degree (36 hours) will have developed skills affecting leadership, change, and policy formation; will have had opportunities to analyze data and its relationship to organizational effectiveness; and will have achieved a vision of effectiveness for schooling that is shared by experts in the field. How do our faculty work in this career community? Faculty members supervise all of the fieldwork embedded in the coursework and supervise the internships of all degree recipients. They are actively engaged in formative and summative evaluation procedures administered throughout the program. One faculty member acts as a coordinator of each cohort. Faculty members have had experience in the K-12 classroom and have served in the role of principal, associate superintendent of schools, and superintendent of schools. Apply Now Graduate Catalog Need Help? Contact Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .