#http://www.memphis.edu/law/current-students/parking.php
Parking - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Current Students Registrar Course &amp; Class Information Course Catalog Curriculum Registration Calendars Degree Programs Part-Time Program Certificate Programs Records Request Graduation Requirements Academic Regulations Student Advising Bar Exam Information Academic Regulations Student Organizations Student Affairs Student Affairs Overview Academic Success Program Bar Exam Information Bookstore Commencement Counseling Services Information Technology Law School ID Cards Locker Rentals Orientation Parking TN Lawyers Assistance Prog. Student Advising Study Abroad Financial Information Pro Bono Honor Council GA Timesheet Form Home School of Law Current Students Parking PARKING Student parking for the Law School is available at all downtown parking garages and public parking venues. The University has negotiated reduced parking rates for law students at nearby garages listed here . Please contact the garages directly for any parking-related questions. The Law School does not provide any on-campus parking for law students. Students may not park in the University-designated faculty/staff parking areas on Court Avenue or next to the Law School building. Of course, you may choose to seek other options for parking. A good place to start is . Click on the parking map link. Main Campus Parking Parking passes are available for law students who have an occasional need for services on the main campus such as the following: The Counseling Center Disability Resources for Students The Student Health Center Tiger Copy &amp; Graphics The Bookstore The Bursar's Office The Financial Aid Office IT Testing Center Student government meetings (for our law school representatives) Educational Help &amp; Tutoring Libraries These parking solutions are not available for students with other regular business on the main campus (such as students regularly visiting the rec center, playing intramural sports, or joint/dual-degree students). These students should make other parking arrangements, as Options 1 and 2 are meant for students who have only an occasional need to go to the main campus for student services. Effective immediately, if you are utilizing the above services, you will have three options for free parking on the main campus: 1. Single-Use Passes for the Zach Curlin Garage The law school has purchased a limited number of single-use parking passes. Students can stop by the Dean's suite and request a single-use parking pass from Brigitte Boyd. Students will be required to indicate a broad category of utilization so we will be able to track what services students are accessing with the parking passes. These passes are good for a single visit to the Zach Curlin garage. 2. University Hang Tags The Law School has also purchased five (5) University of Memphis parking hang tags. These hang tags are meant for our students to share. They will provide access to general parking lots on the main campus. These lots are designated in yellow on this parking map. The hang tags can be checked out from Brigitte Boyd in the Dean's Suite according to the process set forth below. As with the single-use passes, students will be required to indicate a broad category of utilization so we will be able to track what services students are accessing with the parking passes. 3. Confidential Counseling Center Single-Use Passes Students using the Counseling Center should not use Option 1 or 2 listed above but should instead use the single-use passes that are available upon request from the University Counseling Center. Students wishing to utilize these Counseling Center passes should park in Zach Curlin garage. You can request a single-use pass at the end of your counseling appointment. The single-use pass will enable you to exit the Curlin garage without charge. Students can request as many single-use passes as needed for counseling services. Hang tags check-out procedure: 1. Location of Passes Passes can be checked out during law school business hours (8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.) from Brigitte Boyd in the Dean's Suite. Students will be required to indicate a broad category of utilization so we will be able to track what services students are accessing with the parking passes. 2. Time of Check-Out Each pass is available to be checked out for two business days. Passes must be checked in and re-checked out after two business days. Students checking out a parking pass on Thursday have until Monday to return the parking pass. 3. Late &amp; Lost Pass Fees The University will not replace any hang tags that are lost or missing. Therefore, any tags that are lost or not returned will be unavailable for any students to use for the remainder of the semester. As a result, students who lose a parking pass or who are late returning a parking pass will lose parking privileges and will not be allowed to check out another hang tag or to receive another single-use pass from the Dean's suite unless they first reimburse the law school for the cost of the lost pass. By checking out a parking pass or requesting a single-use pass, you are certifying that you are only using the parking pass for the accepted uses set forth in this announcement. Students who abuse the parking pass usage policy may have their parking pass check-out privileges revoked. Please contact Assistant Dean Meredith Aden if you have any questions about the parking passes. Current Students Registrar Course &amp; Class Information Course Catalog Curriculum Registration Calendars Degree Programs Part-Time Program Certificate Programs Records Request Graduation Requirements Academic Regulations Student Advising Bar Exam Information Academic Regulations Student Organizations Student Affairs Student Affairs Overview Academic Success Program Bar Exam Information Bookstore Commencement Counseling Services Information Technology Law School ID Cards Locker Rentals Orientation Parking TN Lawyers Assistance Prog. Student Advising Study Abroad Financial Information Pro Bono Honor Council GA Timesheet Form Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .