#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/univ_college.php
University College - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning University College University College DAN LATTIMORE, PhD Dean Contact WILLIAM L. AKEY, EdD Associate Dean Contact KEITH D. SISSON, PhD Graduate Coordinator Contact Website: Individual program requirements described in The University of Memphis Graduate Bulletin, 2015-2016 , are subject to change. Please consult your department or the Graduate School web page for changes that may occur before publication of the next issue of this Bulletin. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. The University College offers two graduate degrees: the Master of Arts in Liberal Studies (MALS) and the Master of Professional Studies (MPS) with concentrations in Strategic Leadership, Human Resources Leadership, and Training and Development. The objectives of the MALS program are to develop: (1) an ability to conceive and develop an interdisciplinary program of study; (2) a high level of proficiency in written and verbal communication skills; (3) an ability to integrate research from various disciplinary perspectives in an interdisciplinary program of study; and (4) an ability to identify and research a topic from interdisciplinary perspectives and communicate the findings in oral and written presentations. The Master of Professional Studies includes concentrations in Strategic Leadership, Human Resources Leadership, and Training and Development. Each represents an interdisciplinary graduate degree for leaders in the workplace; each concentration includes coursework in leadership, communication, strategic planning and assessment, organizational structure, and research/data analysis. I. Master of Arts in Liberal Studies (MALS) Degree Program The Master of Arts in Liberal Studies program at the University of Memphis allows students to customize an interdisciplinary course of study. The program is for those seeking the personal enrichment provided by liberal learning and the development of intellectual skills necessary to lifelong learning—critical reading, scholarly writing, and the art of interpersonal communication. A. Program Admission and Prerequisites Applicants to the program are evaluated as they apply and may be admitted for the fall, spring or summer sessions. Application for admission to the program consists of three steps: Application for admission to the Graduate School: The Graduate School at the University of Memphis accepts applications via electronic submission at Application Packet: Instructions for completing this step are available under the MALS admissions information link at . Personal interview with the MALS Graduate Coordinator. B. Program Requirements Because each MALS student follows a unique course of study, students develop a contract with the University College to create a program that satisfies both the interdisciplinary intent of the MALS program and the Graduate School’s requirements for graduation. At the time of admission to the MALS program, the Graduate Coordinator approves the student’s course of study as reflected on the Coordinated Study Grid that accompanies the application essay. Students then enroll each semester in available courses from the approved plan. Within two weeks after the start of the final semester they must submit a final Program Contract that reiterates the approved academic goals (if necessary, reflecting any changes that have developed since admission) and identifies the Coordinated Study courses actually completed. Major deviations from the original approved plan require department pre-approval and will be addressed at the time of registration each semester. The program requirements are: Successful completion of the MALS degree requires thirty-three (33) credit hours, with a minimum of 24 credit hours at the 7000 level, twelve (12) of which are included in the MALS core. The MALS core is required of all students, and consists of twelve (12) credit hours including UNIV 7000 Foundations of Liberal Studies , UNIV 7100 Research in Interdisciplinary Studies, UNIV 7200 Liberal Studies Seminar , and UNIV 7996 Special Project (see below for course descriptions). The Coordinated Study is comprised of twenty-one (21) credit hours selected from two or more disciplines, with a maximum of 12 credit hours from any one discipline. At least 12 hours must be 7000-level courses. No more than six (6) credit hours may be from non-core UNIV courses, including UNIV 7796 Independent Study and/or UNIV 7110 Internship . Transfer credit is limited to twelve (12) semester hours. Credit previously earned at another university must be presented for evaluation not later than the end of the student’s second semester of enrollment. Successful completion of UNIV 7996 Capstone Project , followed by an oral comprehensive examination. II. Master of Professional Studies (MPS) Degree Program A. Program Admission and Prerequisites Applicants to the program are evaluated as they apply and may be admitted for the fall, spring or summer sessions. All applicants must meet the following admission requirements: Completion of an undergraduate degree with a grade point average of at least 2.75 on a 4.0 scale from an accredited college or university. An acceptable score on the GRE General Test. Applicants with substantial professional work experience may submit a portfolio in lieu of the GRE. The portfolio is to include: a resume; a 500 to 600 word essay detailing motivation for entering the MPS program and how the program will help the applicant achieve personal and professional goals; and two sealed letters of professional reference. Applicants may also include a detailed description of professional responsibilities, professional achievements, and professional awards/recognitions, if applicable. B. Program Requirements Completion of MPS program core: PRST 7100 Professional Environment: Issues and Ethics ; PRST 7200 Globalization and the Professions ; PRST 7300 Research Methods and PRST 7998 Professional Project, followed by an oral comprehensive examination. Completion of 21 semester hours of Concentration Courses (and electives where applicable). For the Strategic Leadership Concentration, complete at least one course from each of five subject areas and two additional classes from any of the subject areas: Leadership Theory: PRST 7500 Foundations of Leadership ; LDSP 7000 Current Issues and Cases in Leadership ; or ELPA 7560 Small Group Leadership Research/Data Analysis: PRST 7770 Computer-Based Decision Modeling or PRST 7600 Statistical Analysis Organizational Structure and Change: PRST 7310 Leadership in Organization or PRST 7800 Organizational Skills and Development Communication: COMM 7110 Leadership and Communication ; JOUR 7450 Public Relations Management ; or PRST 7700 Conflict Management and Negotiation Strategic Planning and Assessment: PRST 7105 Project Planning and Scheduling or PRST 7040 Human Resources Management For the Human Resources Leadership concentration, complete all four of the Concentration Courses, plus one course from number 2 below and two courses from number 3 below: Concentration Courses: PRST 7040 Human Resources Management ; PRST 7600 Statistical Analysis ; PRST 7910 Employment and Human Resources Law ; and PRST 7920 Diversity in the Workplace Choose one: PRST 7500 Foundations of Leadership or PRST 7310 Leadership in Organizations Choose two: PRST 7700 Conflict Management and Negotiation ; PRST 7930 Compensation and Benefits ; PRST 7940 Recruitment, Selection, and Retention ; PRST 7400 Instructional Design for Training and Development For the Training and Development Concentration, Complete five (5) of the concentration courses as noted in #1: Concentration Courses (five courses): PRST 7410 Evaluation of Learning ; PRST 7420 Organizational Needs Analysis ; PRST 7400 Instructional Design for Training and Development; PRST 7420 Organizational Needs Analysis; PRST 7770 Computer-Based Decision Modeling ; PRST 7600 Statistical Analysis Specialization Courses (two courses required): PRST 7105 Project Planning and Scheduling . PRST 7440 Engaging the Adult Online Learner ; PRST 7450 Computer-Based Technologies for E-Training; PRST 7430 Advanced Instructional Design for Training and Development; PRST 7040 Human Resources Management; PRST 7910 Employer and Human Resources Law; PRST 7920 Diversity in the Workplace. Successful completion of PRST 7998 Professional Project, followed by an oral comprehensive examination. III. Experiential Learning The University of Memphis believes that rigorous professional and/or personal development occurs in settings outside the traditional classroom and grants experiential learning credit (ELC) to students who demonstrate the academic merit of such experiences. These contexts for ELC include both formal and informal learning that results from worksite training, professional organization certification, community volunteering, and unique life experiences. Students may apply ELC toward degree programs granted by University College. Experiential learning credit for graduate students is awarded for advanced professional/personal development. Students may be expected to demonstrate a leadership or production capacity. Experiential learning credit can only be awarded for experiences attained prior to the first term of enrollment in a University College graduate program. A favorable portfolio review will result in one (1) to nine (9) credit hours posted to the student’s transcript. A student may not audit or enroll in a credit course at the University and subsequently seek credit in that course through experiential learning. A student may not earn additional credit for experiences previously awarded ELC. Graduate students are encouraged to submit notification of intent to apply for ELC no later than the first term of enrollment. Experiential learning credit is only granted upon the written recommendation of the University College Graduate Studies Director (or designated representative). A maximum number of 9 (nine) semester hours of credit can be granted via ELC. For more details on the systematic process implemented by the University College for evaluating and credentialing experiential learning, see . IV. Graduate Certificate Program in Liberal Studies The Graduate Certificate in Liberal Studies is intended to present graduate background material for those seeking personal enrichment provided by liberal learning and the development of those intellectual skills necessary to lifelong learning—critical reading, scholarly writing, and the art of interpersonal communication. The program consists of four courses: (1) UNIV 7000 Foundations of Liberal Studies; (2) UNIV 7100 Research in Liberal Studies; (3) UNIV 7200 Liberal Studies Seminar; and (4) one elective course. Foundations, Research, and Seminar are core courses in the Master of Arts in Liberal Studies degree program and thus, those who successfully complete the certificate program will be offered entry to the MALS degree program as well as the opportunity to apply those courses towards graduate degree programs in other departments in consultation with that department’s graduate advisor. Applying for Admission to the Program Completion of an undergraduate degree with a cumulative grade point average of 2.75 on a 4.0 scale from an accredited college or university is expected. It should be noted that as applicants are selected on a competitive basis, admission is not granted to all applicants who meet only the minimum requirements. Application for admission to the program consists of three steps: Step 1: Application for admission to the Graduate School The Graduate School at the University of Memphis accepts applications via electronic submission at . Admission deadlines to the program: Fall - July 1 Spring - December 1 Summer - May 1 Steps 2 and 3: The Application Essay and Letter of Recommendation As soon as possible after applying to the Graduate School, students interested in the Graduate Certificate in Liberal Studies program should submit to the University College Graduate Programs office the following: (a) One official letter of recommendation, preferably from a previous or current instructor who can attest to the student’s capacity for graduate work. (b) An application essay that addresses the following points: Why is the Graduate Certificate in Liberal Studies program the best choice for pursuing your personal and intellectual goals? How have your academic and professional experiences prepared you for this program? Why do you think you are a good candidate for the Graduate Certificate in Liberal Studies program? PLEASE NOTE that the University College only has the authority to recommend or deny admission to the Graduate Certificate in Liberal Studies program. The Graduate School makes all final admission decisions, and will notify students once a decision has been reached. Program Requirements Successful completion of the Graduate Certificate in Liberal Studies requires twelve (12) credit hours: UNIV 7000 Foundations of Liberal Studies (3 hours) UNIV 7100 Research in Interdisciplinary Studies (3 hours) UNIV 7200 Liberal Studies Seminar (3 hours) Elective (3 hours): one elective at the 6000 or 7000 level. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .