#http://www.memphis.edu/consider/about.php
About Courses to Consider - Courses to Consider - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Courses to Consider About For Advisors For Students Contact Us Feedback Home Courses to Consider About Courses to Consider University of Memphis Uses New Tech Tool to Help Students Choose Courses and Majors For release: February 14, 2012 For press information, contact Curt Guenther, 901-678-2843 901-678-2843 College students use tech tools for everything from ordering pizza to playing games. The same technology software will soon be used to help University of Memphis students decide which courses will help them graduate faster, which courses will result in better grades, and even what subject to choose for a major. The technology, originally developed by Austin Peay State University Provost Tristan Denley, uses data to identify the course requirements for a student's major, then to find the classes in which the student is most likely to perform well. The tool scans the university's records to compare the success of similar students taking similar classes – much like online shopping programs recommend products purchased by other customers. "It helps them make better, more informed choices by using something they're already familiar with, such as a smart phone or mobile device app," said Denley. While it doesn't replace traditional faculty advising, it makes the advising process easier and faster for students and faculty. Proven effective at Austin Peay, the same technology will soon be in use at the University of Memphis and two other Tennessee Board of Regents campuses – Nashville State Community College and Volunteer State Community College – thanks to a grant to the Tennessee Higher Education Commission from Complete College America, in collaboration with the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation. Dr. Shannon Blanton, vice provost for Undergraduate Programs at the UofM, said, "We are very excited about the opportunity to incorporate additional tools into our advising processes and further enhance the ability of our students to make informed choices about the classes they take and the major they select. Students have different academic strengths and interests that translate into different patterns of academic success. The student who excels in his or her journalism class, for example, might have a different set of academic competencies and interests than the student who is highly successful in a chemistry course. This technology will help students to identify the academic areas in which they are most likely to excel and find personal satisfaction. In turn, we expect that these students will be more likely to complete their degrees." A portion of the $1 million grant has allowed the software to be adapted for use at the University of Memphis andthe other colleges and to be tested for possible use state-wide. "We know that the more time it takes students to earn a degree, the less likely they are to successfully complete college," said TBR Chancellor John Morgan. "Of all the challenges facing students on a regular basis, knowing which courses to take and when to take them should not be one of those challenges. This tool will make it easier for students to plan their course loads and will help improve the advising process." The program, called "Degree Compass," uses predictive analytics through a complex algorithm that pulls data and statistics from the university's student database. Denley said that after it accurately predicted a student's performance to within half a letter grade., it was quickly adopted for use at Austin Peay. Now Denley and his colleagues are working on a feature to help students choose a major – or find one that better fits their past performance and one that has proven to be a positive choice for other students with similar grades and characteristics. The new software will be closely tracked to evaluate the impact it has on student performance. According to TBR's Morgan, the goal is to radically improve student advising and ultimately, college completion rates. Check the Directory Need help finding your avisor? Tips to help you prepare for advising Meet with your advisor often! Undecided about your Major? Make your appointment online! Need to meet with your adviosr? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .