#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/resources/adminres/facultyhiring/
Faculty Hiring - Academic Affairs - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Academic Affairs About Provost Resources Academic Affairs Units Resources Faculty Resources Calendars New Faculty Tenure &amp; Promotion Faculty Evaluation Faculty Handbook CV Information University Resources Administration Resources Faculty Hiring Part-Time Instructor Hiring Home Academic Affairs Resources Faculty Hiring Please bear with us as we transfer the information on this page to this location. If you need something immediately, please use the site. This page hosts all of the information for hiring full-time faculty. Use the following links to navigate to a specific area. Conducting Faculty Search Official Transcript Definition Forms Offer Letter Templates Special Instructions for Lambuth Fill-Time Hires International Visiting Scholars Other Resources Conducting Faculty Search The search process is a complex procedure. It is outlined below and is easily navigable using the following links: Overview of the Search Process Quick Checklist for Conducting the Search Interview Schedule Candidate's Presentation Department Chair's Presentation Dean's Session Overview of the Search Process Starting the Search Process The committee composes the search plan and ad text. The assistant or department head initiates the request to fill the position in WorkForUM. Open WorkForUM and initiate a Request to Fill Faculty Position. Choose the appropriate position number and fill out the request to fill. Be sure to attach the ad text in the Documents section. The department pays the cost of advertising in venues other than WorkForUM and HigerEdJobs.com. Try to use free listservs in your discipline. Request a Guest User password when you are completing the request to fill. The guest user password will be used by search committee members to log in and view applications. In faculty searches, the applications may be viewed as soon as the applicant successfully submits. You may choose to put an end date on the search. This will automatically close the pool on that date, and no more people may apply. OR you may choose to check the May Continue until Filled box and indicate a Begin Screening Date in the Special Conditions field. If you go with the second option, you must contact facultyservices@memphis.edu to close the pool before the committee meets to select the interviewees. Submit the request to Approving Authority. It will be reviewed by Dean, Provost, and Institutional Equity. The department will be notified by email when the position is approved for posting. Faculty Administrative Services activates the posting. There may be a day or two of lag time between the approval for posting and the actual posting. Be sure not to send the ad to any listservs until the posting has appeared on the UofM website. Approving the Interview Pool After the search is closed, the committee will meet to select interviewees. Complete the Applicant Pool Certification. Check "I certify" in two places. Fill in the list of places advertised and describe efforts to recruit women/minorities. The assistant or department head changes the status of selected interviewees to Recommended for Interview—Department. The assistant or department head changes the status of each person not recommended for interview to Not Hired and enters a rejection reason. If it is necessary to return to the pool later and request permission to interview someone initially in the Not Hired group, this is possible. After the applicant statuses are changed, call or email the Dean's office. There is no auto-generated email at this point to notify the Dean's office that an action is required. The pool will be reviewed and approved (or questions asked) at the Dean's level and Institutional Equity. The department will be notified by email when the pool is approved. Conduct interviews. Submitting the Hiring Proposal After the interviews are conducted, the department selects an appointee. The department head should negotiate terms with the selected appointee and compose a draft offer letter. The hiring proposal must be entered in WorkForUM and approved before the official offer letter may be mailed to the candidate. In WorkForUM, change the statuses of interviewees who were not selected and enter a rejection reason. Upload the Final Pool Analysis in the Documents tab. Change the status of the selectee to Recommended for Hire. Then, click on Begin Hiring Proposal. Fill out the hiring proposal and upload the Draft Offer Letter. Use the offer letter templates available on the Academic Affairs website. Upload a Reduction in Tenure form, if applicable. Upload a Moving Allowance form, if applicable. Submit the hiring proposal and wait for approvals. When all approvals are obtained, the department will receive an auto-generated email stating that the proposal has been submitted to Academic Affairs. This is the signal to mail the offer letter. Concluding the Hire After all approvals are obtained, mail the Offer Letter and Moving Allowance form (if applicable) to the candidate. You may want to send this packet by overnight or express mail. Forward the Offer Letter, Moving Expenses form (if applicable) and Official Transcript to the Dean's office. If letters of reference were not collected in WorkForUM, forward those as well. The dean's office will forward to Faculty Academic Services. Faculty Academic Services will "seat" the position and set up an email account for the appointee. Candidates who were not hired will receive an auto-generated email notification. Interview Schedule Each interview candidate is contacted and dates established for the visit. Interviews are often for 1 ½ to 2 days. To reduce airfares, the interview periods are often Saturday through Tuesday, Wednesday through Sunday. The department secures a travel authorization (TA) for each candidate's visit. To facilitate this, the candidate's name, complete home address, and social security number are needed. It helps to have an overall coordinator for each candidate's interview. The search committee usually coordinates the interview. A schedule is established for each interview and should include meetings with: The College Dean (all candidates' vitae are provided in advance) The department chairperson (provide chairperson the candidate's file on the day of the interview) Each departmental research group, and/or with individual faculty members Graduate students in the area of the search Other relevant groups in or outside of the department In addition, the schedule should include: Airport pickup and transportation arrangements Meal arrangements A tour of the campus A real estate agent tour if requested by the candidate A schedule should be posted where faculty and others can sign up for sessions. The candidate's vita should also be made available in case faculty need to review it in advance of sessions. Include on the schedule the location of each meeting, the name of the research group, and the name(s) of those dining with the candidate. A copy of the schedule should be given to the candidate. It is helpful if this could be provided a few days before the visit. It is recommended that early in the interview the candidate be provided with a packet which includes the documents about The University of Memphis and the department. Most of this type of information is now located on the University's Web site. Candidate's Presentation This is the session in which many faculty and students come to learn about the candidate. The presentation usually lasts about an hour, including questions. The following are suggestions for making this a positive experience: In consultation with the candidate, decide if the presentation will be on the first or second day of the visit. Post the title, name of the candidate, time, and room for the session in strategic locations at least two days in advance of the session. You may wish to e-mail this information to the department faculty. Check with the candidate to determine equipment needs (e.g., overhead projector, power point, etc.) and be sure that the equipment is in the room and working properly. It is recommended that the candidate check the room and equipment out in advance of the presentation. You may also have someone familiar with the equipment be available at the presentation just in case of any malfunction of the equipment. Send out reminders to the faculty the day before and on the morning of the presentation. The coordinator of the visit should present a very brief introduction of the candidate including name, academic background, current position, and title of the presentation. Some units may want additional presentations scheduled to discuss specific research agendas and needs. Department Chair's Presentation The candidate's meeting with the department chairperson is often the last session on the schedule. In this session, the chairperson may provide specific information about teaching load, salary and benefits, office and research space, startup costs, performance expectations for annual evaluations as well as tenure and promotion, and other related matters. The candidate should be instructed in advance of this session to have some understanding of his/her research space, equipment needs, salary, and teaching expectations. Dean's Session A visit is arranged at a time convenient to the dean's schedule. This is usually a half-hour meeting providing the dean an opportunity to simply meet the candidate, gather some general assessment of the candidate's interests and qualifications, and to provide a perspective on the institution from the college level. Official Transcript Definition An official transcript is one that has been received directly from the institution where the faculty member or is completing his/her highest degree. It must state that the degree was awarded. It must bear the institution's seal or be printed on copy protect paper, and include the date, and appropriate registrar's signature. If you have any questions or concerns regarding a transcript, contact Faculty Administrative Services at 901.678.3544. Forms Faculty Appointment Data Form Faculty Reappointment form Proficiency in Oral English Form Disclosure &amp; Authorization Form * Waiver for Search Requirement for Faculty Form Tenure Reduction Form Lapse Request Form Moving Allowance Form Extra Compensation for Instructional Purposes Form *Used only for emergency hires Offer Letter Templates One-Year Offer Template--New WorkForUM Tenure Track Offer Template Lambuth One-Year Offer Template Postdoc Offer Template Joint Faculty Appointment Template Special Instructions for Lambuth Full-Time Hires Lambuth Full-Time Faculty Hiring Procedures/Roles and Responsibilities Home departments (Memphis campus) will conduct the searches. There will be a Lambuth faculty member from the same or a closely related discipline on the search committee. The Memphis campus chair should consult with the Lambuth Dean for the name of a Lambuth representative. Both the Memphis campus and the Lambuth Campus Dean will review the interview pool recommendations submitted by the department chair. The Lambuth Dean will use the guest pass to review the interview pool. The Memphis Dean or Chair (as appropriate for the school or college) will draft the hiring proposal. The Lambuth Dean will review the offer letter for teaching load and other expectations (typically 12 credit hours per semester). If the Lambuth Dean is unavailable, the Lambuth Associate Dean may review the offer letter. Home department (Memphis Campus) will mail offer letter and forward signed offer letter, transcript, and letters of reference (if not uploaded in WorkForUM) to Faculty Administrative Services. Lambuth faculty will report to Lambuth Business Service Center on or before the first day of work to complete I-9, W4, and direct deposit. Instructions will be included in the template offer letter. Special Instructions for International Visiting Scholars PROCEDURE FOR INTERNATIONAL VISITING SCHOLARS The department sponsoring the visiting scholar must provide the following information in order to obtain a U#, UID, and email address for the visiting scholar. This information can be documented in the helpdesk ticket in the comment section: Identifying Information Passport Number Full Name of Visiting Scholar Date of Birth Visa Type Sponsoring Department Reason that U# is needed The Sponsoring Department will forward items 1 and 2 to Faculty Administrative Services by submitting a Helpdesk ticket for a Sponsored Account. Helpdesk login link: . Faculty Administrative Services will use the information provided in the Helpdesk ticket to provide a U# and UID. The U# will be forwarded to Sponsoring Department in the helpdesk ticket. The Helpdesk will notify the sponsoring department the email address of the visiting scholar. The person submitting the Helpdesk ticket must be a regular employee of the University, not a student worker or graduate assistant. Other Resources Recruitment, Application, and Selection of Faculty Policy Office for Institutional Equity WorkForUM Resources Faculty Resources Calendars New Faculty Tenure &amp; Promotion Faculty Evaluation Faculty Handbook CV Information University Resources Administration Resources Faculty Hiring Part-Time Instructor Hiring Provost's Blog Check out some of the latest Academic Affairs news Academic Affairs Award Nominations Help us recognize the hard work and dedication of the University's staff Faudree Professorship Help the University retain its best and brightest faculty by donating today Critical Conversations Join the conversation today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .