#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/getinvolved/constituent/lambuth.php
Lambuth Chapter - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About Get Involved Academic Chapters Arts &amp; Sciences School of Law CEHHS Communication Sciences &amp; Disorders FCBE Engineering International MBA Journalism Kemmons Wilson School School of Nursing Masters of Public Administration Music Professional MBA University College Constituent Groups Band Frosh Camp Half Century Hispanic Alumni Lambuth Luther C. McClellan Memphis Pom UMAR Young Alumni Out of Town Atlanta Chicago Dallas Denver Houston Indianapolis Minneapolis Nashville New England New Orleans New York Orlando/Tampa San Francisco St. Louis Washington, DC Student Groups Future Alumni of Memphis Student Ambassador Board Scholarships Pouncer's Pals Home UMAA Get Involved Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Alumni Chapter Upcoming Events Lambuth Heritage Room A current project of the Chapter is the implementation of a Heritage Room in the library of the Lambuth campus. This room will hold various objects from the college's rich history and tradition. If you would like to donate an item, please contact Kristie Goldsmith at k.goldsmith@memphis.edu or 901-652-2749. Lambuth Area Neighborhood Association (LANA) Jackson Area Residents: Connect with LANA for updates on the Lambuth neighborhood and campus. The group meets monthly at Lambuth Memorial Methodist Church. For more information, visit lanatn.org or contact k.goldsmith@memphis.edu or 901-652-2749. Lambuth Alumni E-Newsletter: True Blue Connection Stay up-to-date with the Lambuth Campus and Alumni Chapter with our new quarterly e-newsletter, True Blue Connection . Read the first edition, Spring 2014, here, featuring a Lambuth Campus update from Dean Dan Lattimore, bio on the Chapter presidents, upcoming events and more. If you did not receive the first edition in your email, please fill out this form and return it to k.goldsmith@memphis.edu to update your information. University of Memphis Lambuth Apparel Purchase your Lambuth Campus apparel here . Recent Events True Blue Day 2015 Lambuth alumni and friends spent the day at UofM Lambuth Campus. View Photos Yearbook Archives Every issue of the DeSoto and Lambuth Lantern yearbooks have been archived online. Click here to view them. The online archive also includes the University of Memphis Commencement programs, Telephone Directories, the Bulletin/Class Directories and the Lambuth Bulletin and Catalogs. Get Involved! Watch this video by board member Tim Goldsmith (BS '78), recorded at Vision Forum 2014, to learn more about the Lambuth Alumni Chapter and how you can get involved! The Lambuth Alumni Chapter is beginning a new season of projects and events to involve Lambuth alumni! If you graduated from Lambuth University and are interested in being a part of this exciting time, please contact Alumni Coordinator Kristie Goldsmith at k.goldsmith@memphis.edu or 901-652-2749. A current project of the Chapter is the implementation of a Heritage Room in the library of the Lambuth campus. This room will hold various objects from the college's rich history and tradition. Club and Chapter Leadership Jackson Area: John Yarbrough (BS '72), President Gwenda Anthony (BA '76) Vicki Burton (BS '94, MALS '08) Peggy Pate (BS '63) Judy Rhear (BA '62) Wayne Rhear (BS '61) Bob Sadowski (BS '69, MEd '71, MEd '73) Becky Sadowski (BA '69, MEd '72) Sandra Watlington (BS '86) Caroline Wells (BS '01) Memphis Area: Madeline McDonald (BS '80), President Carla Carter (BS '80) Chuck Carter (BA '79) Parker Dinwiddie (BA '77) Tim Goldsmith (BS '78) Karen Hall (BS '84, JD '97) Richard Hall (BS '84) Bob Hendrix John McDonald (BSEd '79, MEd '93) The Chapter is please to welcome a new Alumni Coordinator, Lambuth alumna Kristie Goldsmith (BSSW '80). To learn more or become involved in the Chapter, contact Kristie at k.goldsmith@memphis.edu or 901-652-2749. Connect with the Lambuth Alumni Chapter on Facebook and Twitter ! Get Involved Academic Chapters Arts &amp; Sciences School of Law CEHHS Communication Sciences &amp; Disorders FCBE Engineering International MBA Journalism Kemmons Wilson School School of Nursing Masters of Public Administration Music Professional MBA University College Constituent Groups Band Frosh Camp Half Century Hispanic Alumni Lambuth Luther C. McClellan Memphis Pom UMAR Young Alumni Out of Town Atlanta Chicago Dallas Denver Houston Indianapolis Minneapolis Nashville New England New Orleans New York Orlando/Tampa San Francisco St. Louis Washington, DC Student Groups Future Alumni of Memphis Student Ambassador Board Scholarships Pouncer's Pals Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .