#http://www.memphis.edu/nrotc/naval-science-courses/
Naval Science Courses - Naval ROTC - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps Future Students Current Students Naval Science Crosstown Agreements Naval Science Course Resources UofM Course Catalog: Naval Science Naval Science Course Descriptions Approved Non-Naval Science Courses Approved Calculus and Physics Sequence Home Naval ROTC Naval Science Courses Naval Science Courses The Naval Science program is designed to prepare midshipmen for a career as future officers in the United States Navy and United States Marine Corps. The courses offered teach the proud heritage of the Naval Services, where they are today, and where they are headed. As well as developing students academically, courses promote the development of leadership and decision making skills. All courses are open to all University of Memphis students regardless of participation in the Naval ROTC Program. It is expected that non-Naval ROTC students understand that the curriculum being taught is directed at preparing future Navy and Marine Corps officers and that all students are expected to maintain the same high standards. A Minor in Naval Science is offered for students at the University of Memphis. Completion of 18 semester hours are required, which do not include Naval Science Laboratories, which are not required for the minor. All students in the Naval ROTC unit, regardless of program, are required to take the Naval Science Laboratory each semester they are in the program, unless other academic requirements prevent attendance. Course Course Name NAVY 1500 Introduction to Naval Science R R R R R E N NAVY 1600 Sea Power and Maritime Affairs R R R R R E N NAVY 2500 Leadership and Management R R R R R E R NAVY 2600 Naval Ship Systems I (Engineering) R E R E E E N NAVY 3500 Navigation R E R E E E N NAVY 3520 Evolution of Warfare E R E R E R E NAVY 3600 Naval Operations and Seamanship R E R E E E N NAVY 3620 OCS Preparation O NAVY 4500 Naval Ship Systems II (Weapons) R E R E E E N NAVY 4520 Amphibious Warfare E R E R E R E NAVY 4600 Leadership and Ethics R R R R R R R NAVY **10 Naval Science Laboratory R R R R R R R R = Required Required for that specific program. E = Elective Not a required class. O = Optional Not required for a grade, but in most cases it will be taken regardless. N = NSI Course is taken at the Naval Science Institute. Non-Naval Science Courses On top of the Naval Science courses listed above, there are also non-Naval Science courses that are required for each program. The current list of non-Naval Science courses published in a letter that is signed by the Professor of Naval Science on an annual basis. The current list of approved courses are list in the link to the right. Naval Science Course Resources UofM Course Catalog: Naval Science Naval Science Course Descriptions Approved Non-Naval Science Courses Approved Calculus and Physics Sequence Tiger Cruise Newsletter Read about events, stories of leadership, honor, courage and commitment Contact Us &amp; Location Main office and location. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/28/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .