#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/pdfs/facultyexpectations.pdf
HIAD Faculty Expectations for Online Courses We are learning a great deal about what makes o nline learning work well for students and for their learning. Here are some of our expectations. 1. Find and take the time . Online learning does not require that a student come to campus for a class once a week, but it does require your time and effort. Or in other words, the time you devote to class may be more flexible (meaning you log on at home or work or in the wee hours or whenever you can), but it may actual ly take more of your time. You have lots of reading to do, issues to contemplate, thoughts to contribute to discussions , and responses underestimate the time required to do this. 2. Good students are good students . A go od student in the face - to - face classroom comes to class, does the readings, participates in discussions, and does his/her best. The online version of these qualities are logging in to the course on a regular basis, reading the assignments, and participati ng in online discussions. We can and do monitor your involvement in the course. If your participation is weak, we may suggest that you drop the class and retake it when you have more time to devote to learning. 3. Do the work it: you have to do the work. We can usually tell pretty easily when a paper has been written the night before, and it will likely receive a lower grade. We can usually tell by the quality of your comm ents in reading or thought much about the topic. And we can tell when you pretend to know things but cannot back them up with research, theory, or other authorities. 4. Be professional . While participating in your online class, practice your best and most profess unprofessional comments of any kind in an educational environment . Be sure your writing is also the best you can produce and that you practice professional writing, including sentence and paragraph construction, logical progression of ideas, correct spelling and grammar, and avoidance of too many colloquialisms. 5. Follow the syllabus . We usually set out the goals, assignments, and deadlines in the syllabus and/or in the eCourseware shell. We may not remind you of them, but you should be familiar with them. 6. If catastrophe happens. We know that life will continue to happen to you. You may get a new job, a new baby, a new house, or have a death in the family or other catastrophe. Let your advisor and instructor know. Discuss the situation honestly, and the two of you can develop a plan to get you through this disruption in your life and stay afl oat in the program.