#http://www.memphis.edu/law/current-students/blog-information.php
Blog information - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Current Students Registrar Course &amp; Class Information Course Catalog Curriculum Registration Calendars Degree Programs Part-Time Program Certificate Programs Records Request Graduation Requirements Academic Regulations Student Advising Bar Exam Information Academic Regulations Student Organizations Student Affairs Student Affairs Overview Academic Success Program Bar Exam Information Bookstore Commencement Counseling Services Information Technology Law School ID Cards Locker Rentals Orientation Parking TN Lawyers Assistance Prog. Student Advising Study Abroad Financial Information Pro Bono Honor Council GA Timesheet Form Home School of Law Current Students Blog information ON LEGAL GROUNDS INFORMATION On Legal Grounds is the the primary way that student organizations and law school faculty and staff communicate with students, so you must check the blog and your Memphis email every day. Please also check the monitors around the building for information about law school events and deadlines, as well. New Calendar Features There is an exciting new feature on the blog for this coming school year. We have added a new type of post for events. There is a new calendar tab on the top menu. Also, you can view a list of the next five upcoming events on every page on the left side bar. There are also calendars specific for each student organization and law school office. These specific calendars can be found through some simple navigation through the top menu. To find the calendar for a specific student organization, hover over the "Student Organizations and Events" tab and scroll down to the organization. When you hover over the organization, a tab will pop out with a link to the organization's specific calendar. Planning &amp; Advertising Your Events &amp; Announcements Each student organization has a designated member to reserve rooms and advertise internally. If you are a new organization and would like to have an account, please contact Dean Aden. Room Reservations Use the law school calendar to browse events or search for room space and to submit a request for a room. Please note that your room is not officially reserved until you receive a confirmation from the Dean's assistant, Ida Bounds . Please contact Ms. Bounds if you have questions or need assistance with reserving a room or viewing the calendar. Instructions for using the room reservation calendar are available here . On Legal Grounds Prior to submitting a post or event, confirm with Ms. Bounds that your date, time, and room are reserved. Create a Calendar Event (not included in the daily email digest &amp; not included on the main summary page) if you would like your activity/event to appear on the calendar. Be sure to mark the corresponding student organization event category, otherwise, the event will not appear on your organization's calendar. Instructions for creating a Calendar Event are available here . Create the Post(s) (included in the daily email digest &amp; on the main summary page) Student organizations are allowed up to two separate postings for each activity/event (in addition to the Calendar Event) Student organization posts are listed in the order received (not chronologically). Therefore, consider carefully your preferred timing for when you would like a post(s) to run: A "Save the Date Post" - two or more weeks in advance of the activity/event A "Reminder Post" - a day or two in advance of the event These posts should have different content to distinguish them for the reader I recommend creating both at the same time You can schedule when you would like posts to appear. Instructions for creating a Post are available here . There are On Legal Grounds Posting Guidelines that you must follow. Please make sure you familiarize yourself with them. Failure to follow the guidelines will result in posting privileges being revoked. Monitors Events submitted to On Legal Grounds will not automatically be advertised on the monitors. If you would like to advertise your event or announcement, you will need to create a PowerPoint slide and submit it to Brigitte Boyd to be included. Use the t emplate here to create your advertisement. (Ads must be in this template to be included). Please indicate the time you would like the slide to start and stop running. These will be updated less frequently than the blog – likely 1-2 times per week. We are interested in your feedback on how to improve On Legal Grounds . There is a link on the blog homepage on the right side where you can submit comments and suggestions. Current Students Registrar Course &amp; Class Information Course Catalog Curriculum Registration Calendars Degree Programs Part-Time Program Certificate Programs Records Request Graduation Requirements Academic Regulations Student Advising Bar Exam Information Academic Regulations Student Organizations Student Affairs Student Affairs Overview Academic Success Program Bar Exam Information Bookstore Commencement Counseling Services Information Technology Law School ID Cards Locker Rentals Orientation Parking TN Lawyers Assistance Prog. Student Advising Study Abroad Financial Information Pro Bono Honor Council GA Timesheet Form Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .