#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/cas/history.php
History - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs History History Department of History The Department of History introduces students to the richness and complexity of the human experience through a curriculum that covers all major geographic areas and time periods, and emphasizes both the unity of that experience and the diversity resulting from such factors as cultural, social, and gender differences. We seek to develop not only a knowledge of the past, but also an appreciation of history as an intellectual discipline that employs a wide variety of scholarly methodologies in its effort to understand that past. Students are taught to think and work as historians: to read critically and analytically both primary and secondary sources, to appreciate the complexity of historical issues and multiplicity of historical views, and to investigate a historical question or problem and communicate the results of that investigation. Through this broad preparation, history majors acquire essential knowledge and critical skills, which provide valuable assets for a wide spectrum of professions and occupations as well as the fundamental basis for advanced study. Program objectives for a B.A. in History are: (a) a fundamental knowledge of the past, including key historical events, ideas, figures, movements, and periods; (b) an awareness of the diversity of historical experiences over time and space; (c) the ability to recognize, locate, analyze critically, and utilize primary and secondary sources; (d) the ability to recognize and evaluate differing historical interpretations and methodologies; (e) the ability to research a topic thoroughly using both primary and secondary sources, and to present a clear and well-written historical argument based on that research; (f) express a high degree of satisfaction with the quality of the education received in that program. History Major (B.A.) A. University General Education Program (41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. B. College and Degree (B.A.) Requirements (12-16 hours) The College and Bachelor of Arts requirements are in addition to the University General Education Program requirements. C. The Major (33 hours) Completion of 33 semester hours in history courses, including HIST 1110, 1120, 2010, 2020, and 21 additional upper division semester hours. Of the 21 upper division hours required for the major, a maximum of 12 may be taken in any one field (African, Ancient Asian, European, Latin American, Middle Eastern, United States). At least 3 of the 21 upper-division hours must be taken outside of the European and United States fields. D. Electives Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120. E. Honors Program History majors who have attained junior standing, successfully completed six semester hours of lower division history, and maintained a grade point average of at least 3.25 in overall studies and in history courses taken, are eligible for admission to the honors program in history. Students admitted to the program must take 15 hours of honors work, at least 9 of which must be taken in upper division history courses after admission to the departmental program. These 9 hours must include HIST 4012 and 4996. The remaining 3 hours may be taken as an additional semester of HIST 4012 or in an upper-division history course with an honors contract that outlines additional honors-level requirements. Those who successfully complete the program and the regular B.A. requirements will have their degree conferred "With Honors in History." The student's diploma and the record at the University of Memphis will be similarly endorsed. A detailed description of the program, together with application forms for admission, may be obtained in the History Department office. History Minor Completion of 21 semester hours in history courses, including HIST 1110, 1120, 2010, 2020, and 9 additional upper division semester hours. Typical 4-Year History Sequence Freshman Year ENGL 1010 3 ENGL 1020 3 MATH* 3-4 Nat. Sci./Math/B.A. 3-4 HIST 1110 3 HIST 1120 3 Foreign Language/B.A. 3 Foreign Language/B.A. 3 Elective 3 Social/Behavioral Sciences* 3 Semester Totals 15-16 hrs 15-16 hrs Sophomore Year ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 COMM 2381 3 HIST 2010 3 HIST 2020 3 Natural Science* 4 Natural Science* 4 Fine Arts/B.A. 3 Social/Behavioral Sciences* 3 Humanities/Fine Arts 3 UD elective 3 Semester Totals 16 hrs 16 hrs Junior Year Social Science/B.A. 3 Humanities/Fine Arts 3 Elective 3 Elective 3 Elective 3 UD HIST 3 UD HIST 3 UD HIST 3 UD HIST 3 UD elective 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 15 hrs Senior Year UD HIST 3 UD HIST 3 UD HIST 3 UD elective 3 UD elective 3 UD elective 3 UD elective 3 Elective 4 Elective 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 13 hrs Total Hours: 120 Total Hours Required for Graduation: 120 *Must satisfy University General Education Program Requirement College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .