#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/math.php
Mathematical Sciences - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Mathematical Sciences Mathematical Sciences IRENA LASIECKA, PhD Chair 373 Dunn Hall 901.678.2482 M. FERNANDA BOTELHO, PhD Director of Graduate Studies Graduate Coordinator (Mathematics) EBENEZER O. GEORGE, PhD Graduate Studies Coordinator (Statistics) gradstudies@msci.memphis.edu I. The Department of Mathematical Sciences offers graduate programs leading to the Master of Science and Doctor of Philosophy degrees with a major in Mathematical Sciences. The areas of concentration for the MS degree are Applied Mathematics, Mathematics, Teaching of Mathematics, and Statistics. Within the MS degree, students may complete up to twelve credit hours in a collateral area approved by their advisor. The areas of concentration for the Doctor of Philosophy degree are Applied Statistics and Mathematics. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MS Degree Program, with concentrations in Applied Mathematics, Mathematics, Statistics, and Teaching of Mathematics. Program objectives are (1) development of thorough background in mathematical sciences, including retention and integration of core knowledge; (2) development of research skills in mathematics; and (3) development of interdisciplinary opportunities and good oral and written communication skills. A. General Program Prerequisites An undergraduate degree with a major in mathematics or statistics is required. The minimum GPA is 2.5 on a 4.0 scale. Students whose major was not in mathematics or statistics will be considered on a case-by-case basis. GRE scores are required and are an important factor for admission. Two letters of recommendation are required. TOEFL scores are required for students whose native language is not English. B. General Program Requirements Satisfactory completion of 33 credit hours of graduate course work in a program approved by the department is required. At least 24 credit hours of course work have to be at the 7000 level or higher. At least 21 credit hours of course work have to be earned from courses offered by the Department of Mathematical Sciences. Not more than three credit hours from graduate level seminars can be used to satisfy degree requirements. Courses designed for the "Teaching of Mathematics" concentration can only be used to satisfy degree requirements in this concentration. A passing grade on a comprehensive examination is required. Students may choose a thesis or non-thesis option. Non-thesis Option – Each student must pass a final written four-hour comprehensive examination which may be broken into several parts at the department’s discretion. The written comprehensive examination covers topics from four courses, each consisting of at least three credit hours of course work. Thesis Option – Each student must identify a thesis advisor, enroll in at least three credit hours of MATH 7996 and submit a written thesis acceptable to the student’s advisory committee. A student must present and defend the thesis before the advisory committee. The oral defense of the thesis will encompass material contained in the thesis and learned during course work and will count as the comprehensive examination. Up to six credit hours of MATH 7996 can be used to satisfy degree requirements. NOTE: Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. C. Specific Degree Requirements Applied Mathematics Concentration The following courses are required: MATH 6242, 6391, and 7350. At least three of the following elective courses are required: MATH 6721, 7016, 7351, 7361, and 7504. The program must include at least 12 credit hours in the following broadly defined core categories: Calculus of Variations and Optimization, Control Theory, Differential Equations, Financial Mathematics, Mathematical Physics, Modeling, Numerical Analysis and Scientific Computation. At least 6 of these 12 credit hours must be taken in the same core category. MATH 7996 does not count towards the required credit hours in the core categories. The written comprehensive examination for students choosing the non-thesis option includes as topics: MATH 7350, six credit hours of course work in one of the core categories (see item c. above), plus an additional course approved by the department. Mathematics Concentration The following courses are required: MATH 6242, 6411, 7261, and 7350. At least four of the following elective courses are required: MATH 7016, 7235, 7237, 7262, 7351, 7352, 7355, 7356, 7361, and 7411. The written comprehensive examination for students choosing the non-thesis option includes as topics: MATH 7261 and MATH 7350, plus two additional courses approved by the department. Statistics Concentration The following courses are required: MATH 6636, 7642, 7643, 7647, 7654, 7685, and 7762. The following elective courses are required: Either MATH 7645 or MATH 7657, and either MATH 7660 or MATH 7670. Credit for both MATH 6637 and MATH 7643 is not permitted. The written comprehensive examination for students choosing the non-thesis option includes as topics: MATH 6636 and MATH 7654, plus two additional courses approved by the department. Students choosing the thesis option may replace either of the two electives (see b.) by three credit hours of MATH 7996. Teaching of Mathematics Concentration The following courses are required: MATH 6151, 7171, 7174, 7281, 7282, 7381, 7382, 7681, and either ICL 7500 or ICL 7503. The written comprehensive examination for students choosing the non-thesis option includes as topics: MATH 7381 and MATH 7382, plus two additional courses approved by the department. III. Accelerated BS/MS Degree Program, with concentrations in Applied Mathematics, Mathematics, and Statistics This program allows outstanding undergraduates to complete both a Bachelor of Science degree in Mathematical Sciences and a Master of Science degree in Mathematical Sciences with concentration in Applied Mathematics, Mathematics or Statistics. Students admitted into the program will follow a carefully designed program of study which allows them to begin course work for the Master of Science program during their senior year. Interested students are encouraged to consult with their undergraduate advisor in the Department of Mathematical Sciences and to begin planning to enter the accelerated BS/MS degree program early in their undergraduate career. Through careful coordination with their undergraduate and graduate advisors students will be able to graduate with both a bachelor’s and master’s degree within a five year period. To apply, students must have finished 18 credit hours of course work in mathematics by the end of the semester of their application. Applicants must have a cumulative GPA of 3.00 (on a 4.0 scale) as well as a GPA of 3.30 (on a 4.0 scale) in their mathematics courses. The initial application for the accelerated BS/MS degree program consists of the following two parts: A letter of intent including two letters of reference and a copy of the applicant’s transcript to be submitted to the Department of Mathematical Sciences Application with the Graduate School for “combination senior” status To continue in the program beyond the bachelor’s degree, students must also apply for full admission into the Graduate School and be accepted into the master’s program by the Department of Mathematical Sciences. Up to 9 hours of graduate course work may be applied to both the undergraduate and graduate programs. Details on courses that can be applied will be available in the Department of Mathematical Sciences. However, any graduate course work will not be used to calculate the undergraduate GPA. IV. PhD Degree Program A. Admission Requirements GRE scores are required and are an important factor for admission. Three letters of recommendation TOEFL scores are required for students whose native language is not English. An undergraduate degree in an appropriate discipline with a minimum GPA of 2.5 (on a 4.0 scale) or equivalent preparation B. Program Requirements The doctoral degree program requires satisfactory completion of a minimum of 72 credit hours of graduate credit (a minimum of 36 hours for a student entering with an approved master’s degree). The 72 hours: may include a maximum of 12 hours of 6000 level coursework, but must include at least 18 hours of 8000 level course work; may include between 9 and 15 hours of dissertation (9000); cannot include courses designed for the “Teaching of Mathematics” concentration, and must include the satisfactory completion of one of the concentration requirements listed below. Each student must: obtain a passing grade on a qualifying examination; obtain a passing grade on a comprehensive examination; complete an acceptable dissertation (Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write.); and pass a final examination given by a committee composed of departmental and university representatives. Detailed information can be obtained by contacting the graduate coordinator of the department. Mathematics Concentration The PhD concentration in mathematics is designed so that students may pursue a degree based on independent research or may choose a more broadly based program aimed toward a college teaching career. Students may contact the department for more detailed information. Applied Statistics Concentration Students must complete the following courses: MATH 7-8642, 7-8651, 7-8670, 7-8692, 7-8695, and two courses from MATH 7-8759, 7-8763, 7-8764, and 7-8765. In addition, students are required to give at least two formal presentations through taking MATH 7-8691 Presentation of an acceptable dissertation proposal within six months after passing the comprehensive examination. Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .