#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/cas/plan.php
PLAN Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning PLAN Courses CITY AND REGIONAL PLANNING (PLAN) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: PLAN 7610-7620. Special Topics in City and Regional Planning. (3). Topics vary and are announced in the online class listing. Core Curriculum PLAN 7000 - Planning the American City (3) Introduces the origins, evolution, and current state of American city planning. Examines the role planners play in promoting more sustainable, vibrant, and just towns, cities, and regions. Reviews critical issues confronting professionals engaged in such areas of specialization as: land use, site planning, urban transportation, affordable housing, community development, capital budgeting, and urban design. PLAN 7002 - Planning Theory & Perspectives (3) Theories of city planning with emphasis on decision-making, managing change and evaluating influence. Explores the multiple frameworks and theories that underpin approaches to planning and policy interventions. PLAN 7004 - Land Use Controls (3) Methods of regulating land use, including zoning, subdivision controls, and growth management techniques; legal framework for planning, including enabling legislation, local ordinances, and significant judicial decisions. PLAN 7006 - Comprehensive Planning Studio (3) Individual and group practice in collection, analysis, and presentation of field data on selected planning problems. Client-based field course that requires the synthesis and application of knowledge, skills, and competencies acquired in the core planning curriculum. PREREQUISITE: PLAN 7000, PLAN 7012, and PLAN 7202 or permission of the instructor. PLAN 7007 - Project Planning Studio (3) Application of skills and competencies toward implementation strategies for specific planning project(s) typically identified in a preceding Comprehensive Planning Studio course. Programs, urban design proposals, etc. will address critical issues affecting local communities and integrate ecological, environmental, economic, social, historical, and cultural perspectives. PREREQUISITE: PLAN 7006 or permission of the instructor. PLAN 7008 - Site Planning (3) Principles and methods of preparing site plan for development project with an emphasis on sustainable urban and regional form; techniques of determining suitability/sustainability of site resources and compatibility of land uses; use of GIS and CAD software in site planning and design; site impact analysis, development regulations, and site plan review procedures. PLAN 7011 - Planning & the Metro Economy (3) Introduces key economic and fiscal issues in loca government, explores the relationship between planning and urban/surburban/rural fiscal health. Considers: economic role of government, public investment, economic impacts of growth and development, and local redevelopment tools. PLAN 7012 - Analysis for Comm Planning (3) Methods used in the assessment of current socio-economic conditions of communities, trend analysis, and forecasts of future population and employment for the purpose of developing comprehensive plans and other analyses common to the planning profession. PLAN 7202 - Land Use Planning (3) Theory and practice of land use planning, with emphasis on methods of land use analysis and economic and social basis for land use decisions. Electives PLAN 6002 - Urban Food Security (3) Origins, evolution, and current state of urban food distribution and accessibility; current challenges encountered by poor and working class individuals and families in accessing food in economically distressed areas; examination of alternative policies, plans, and programs designed to promote more equitable access to healthy foods in inner city communities. Course will include community-based field work. PLAN 6003 - Community Economic Development (3) Origins, evolution, and current state of community-based economic development. Course will include community-based field work. PLAN 6004 - Community Organizing (3) Origins, evolution, and current state of direct action organizing in the United States; principles, methods, and techniques of grassroots organizing. Course will include community-based field work. PLAN 6201 - Urbanization/Environmnt (3) (Same as ESCI 6201; GEOG 6201). A study of the ways humans have changed the natural environment by urbanization and how physical features and processes influence the development and function of cities. PLAN 6231 - Water Resources (3) (Same as ESCI 6231; GEOG 6231). Study of hydrologic processes and their application to needs of cities, industry, agriculture, and recreation. PLAN 6261 - Plan/Sustainable Cities/Region (3) (ESCI 6261). Multidisciplinary and multi-scaled approach to understanding the sustainability of natural and built environments in planning cities and regions; methods for measuring sustainability; emerging development concepts and practices; technology, efficiency, social equity and public health implications of sustainability; sustainable urban/regional form of the future. PLAN 6443 - Transportation Planning (3) (Same as ESCI 6443; GEOG 6443). Planning for various transportation modes and networks and the impact they have on urban land use and contemporary development problems. PLAN 6502 - Computer Cartography (3) (Same as ESCI 6502; GEOG 6502). Instruction in use of computer mapping programs as effective techniques for visual presentation of a wide variety of data. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BASIC, FORTRAN, or other computer language. PLAN 6515 - Geographic Info Science (3) (Same as ESCI 6515; GEOG 6515). Introduction to the basic concepts, components, and functions of Geographic Information Science using ARC/INFO GIS; topics include concepts and structure of spatial data, database planning and design, data quality control, automating spatial data, attribute data management, spatial manipulation, and spatial analysis techniques. PREREQUISITE: ESCI (GEOG) 1010 or 1020 or 1301 or 3430 or 4201 or permission of instructor. PLAN 6521 - Quantitative Methods (3) (Same as ESCI 6521, GEOG 6521). An introduction to quantitative methods in spatial analysis. PLAN 7101 - Regional Planning (3) (Same as ESCI 7101) Origins of regionalism, emergence of new regionalism, delineating and designing the region; economic, ecologic, and social principles for planning the regional city; public policy in region-building; regional planning organization and governance; the functions and problems of regional plan preparation, and plan implementation. PLAN 7201 - Plan Comm Facilities (3) Planning the location and design of community facilities in the light of changing concepts of public service and community organization. PLAN 7203 - Ecology and Planning (3) This course proposes an ecological approach to planning and design, aiming at creating an understanding of how human society interacts with ecosystems. It introduces theories and practices of planning and design framed into the ecological paradigm, especially focused on social, economic, environmental sustainability. It covers topics such as ecological thought, environmental issues, ecological cycles (water, energy, waste), thermodynamics, ecological footprint analysis, environmental justice movements, de-growth theory, ecological planning and design. It includes the study of planning and design practices in urban and rural areas in USA and Europe, with a special emphasis on community-based experiences in both contexts. PLAN 7204 - Urban Revitalz Plan (3) Changing urban land uses, first in areas that must improve or rebuild obsolete patterns, functions, and forms; and second in areas with acceptable uses, structures, and institutions, which in the interest and welfare of all the people must have additional space for growth and expansion. PLAN 7205 - Sem Urban Design (3) History and theory of urban form and implications for the design of cities; survey of urban design techniques. PLAN 7206 - Housing (3) Survey of housing market characteristics, financing, development, preservation, and redevelopment from both public and private perspectives. PLAN 7208 - Economics of Cities (3) Focuses on economics of spatial structure and urban problems; introduces economic theories explaining where and how cities grow; uses economic concepts to explore issues such as poverty, transportation and mass transit, housing and homelessness, education, employment, crime, zoning and land use, suburbanization and sprawl, metropolitan government, and public finance. PLAN 7210 - Research Problems Seminar (3) Provides students with a process for developing a research proposal by using building-block assignments with a formal timeline and providing opportunities for consistent feedback. Students will review and critique each others' written assignments and use class time to workshop ideas. Students will be expected to develop a clear research question, supported by relevant and useful literature, that leads to an appropriate and exectuable research methodology. PLAN 7302 - Geographic Environ Anly (3) (Same as ESCI 7201; GEOG 7201). Analytical and qualitative critique of the physical environment with emphasis on environmental quality, including air and water quality standards, soil erosion, solid waste management, and nuisance control. PLAN 7504 - Sem Geog Info Systems (3) (Same as ESCI 7504; GEOG 7504). Discussion of short- and long-term GIS science research topics by University Consortium of Geographic Information Science (UCGIS), such as internet GIS, possible effects of internet GIS on society, public participation GIS, participatory GIS, GIS for homeland security, geo-spatial society, and geo-visualization. PLAN 7613 - Historic Preservation Planning (3) This program is a 10-day long field experience in the Provence of Catania, Sicily which will study and directly contribute to the efforts of local officials and community organizations working in the Simeto river valley (eastern Sicily) toward promoting regional development through ecological sustainability. PLAN 7701 - Directed Research (1-3) Independent investigation directed toward research problems in city and regional planning May be repeated for a maximum of 3 hours credit. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. PLAN 7708 - Planning Practice (3) Practical skills in operating a planning office in both public and private sectors. PREREQUISITE: Approved planning experience. PLAN 7890 - Planning Internship (1) Experiential learning assignment to be achieved via an approved work assignment with a public or private planning organization or a member of the planning faculty. NOTE: Does not count toward degree requirements. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PLAN 7896 - Capstone Project (1-3) Preparation of a research paper that exhibits mastery of process and substantive area of planning. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours credit. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .