#http://www.memphis.edu/uofmonline/Programs/grad_cert_app_lean_lead.php
Graduate Certificate Program in Applied Lean Leadership - UofM Online - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UofM Online Programs Orientation Online Readiness Resources About AtoZ List Programs Undergraduate Graduate Home UofM Online Programs Graduate Certificate Program in Applied Lean Leadership Graduate Certificate Program in Applied Lean Leadership The Department of Engineering Technology offers a Graduate Certificate in Applied Lean Leadership. The certificate is intended for students with a bachelor's degree who are currently working full-time in a production or service industry, and are specifically interested in learning about Lean principles and practices. Through more than 160 hours of instruction by practitioners of the principles and practices of Lean, the program provides students with competitive knowledge and skills for jobs in which Lean is practiced and a cost-effective way to upgrade technical skills in Lean techniques. Based on the Society of Manufacturing Engineers' "Lean Certification Body of Knowledge," a student who completes the certificate program will be expected to be able to pass the Lean Certification Exam at the Bronze level. (Learn more about Lean Certification HERE ). For admission, students must apply through the graduate school, but are not required to complete the Graduate Record Examination. CURRICULUM: The curriculum consists of two required core courses for a total of 6 semester credit hours, plus two elective courses for an additional 6 semester credit hours. REQUIRED CORE COURSES: TECH 7105: Project Plan &amp; Scheduling (3): Contemporary methods used in project planning and scheduling; emphasis on critical path method (CPM) with computer application; solution of actual problems stressed. NOTE: Due to reasons beyond our control, the RODP version of this course offered Summer 2011 and Fall 2011 (R50 Section) is not acceptable for this requirement. TECH 7401: Lean Fundamentals (3): Basic concepts and terminology of Lean, including review of published seminal works and case studies. Concepts covered include: kanban, visual factory &amp; 5S, kaizen, standard work, takt time, flow, poke-yoke, PDCA, SMED and other tools &amp; techniques of Lean. PREREQUISITE: TECH 4/6460 or equivalent, or permission of instructor. Course prerequisites for TECH 7401 will be waived for students who have demonstrated relevant work experience. ELECTIVE COURSES: TECH 7402 - Adv Quality Control (3): Methods for improved process and product design; cost of quality, measurement systems analysis, process capability, design of experiments and analysis, continuous improvement and review of quality standards. PREREQUISITE: TECH 4/6462 or equivalent, or permission of instructor. TECH 7404. Wrld/Clas Manfct Concpt. (3). World-class manufacturing concepts including Training Within Industry (TWI), Standard Work, 5s tools, Ergonomics, Human factors and Cellular Manufacturing. COREQUISITE: TECH 7401. TECH 7406. Material Handling/Auto (3). Analysis, design, and evaluation of traditional and contemporary approaches to materials handling; analytical and computer procedures for designing handling systems. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7408. Production Processes. (3). A coordinated study of manufacturing processes and equipment, operation sequence planning, economic aspects of equipment selection, tooling and processing a product from product design to final assembly for quantity production. TECH 7414. Manuf Strat/Syst Design (3). Manufacturing strategy and systems design, including concepts of value stream mapping, theory of contraints, lean and six sigma (TLS) combined use, implementing and sustaining change and overcoming resistance, executive alignment and strategy. COREREQUISITE: TECH 7401. Students may enroll in two electives from the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. Selection of the two business electives must be approved by the student's academic advisor and the Associate Dean of the Fogelman College. For more information, contact: Mr. Carl Williams, Graduate Coordinator Department of Engineering Technology crwillia@memphis.edu 901.678.2225 Programs Undergraduate Graduate UofM Online News University of Memphis Online Master's Program is Ranked Among the Best in Nation by ACO. UofM Online Undergraduate Programs Click to View the Fully Online Undergraduate Degree Programs offered at the University of Memphis UofM Online Graduate Programs Click to View the Fully Online Graduate Degree Programs offered at the University of Memphis Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .