#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/education/sls.php
Sport and Leisure Mangement - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions Sport and Leisure Mangement Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) SPORT AND LEISURE MANAGEMENT Department of Health and Sport Sciences Richard Bloomer, Ph.D., Chair Room 106, Elma Neal Roane Fieldhouse In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: SLS 4590-99. Special Topics in Sport and Leisure Management. (3). May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours credit when topic varies. SLS 2105 - Foundation/Sport/Leisure Mgt (4) Explores and analyzes sport and leisure management from philosophical, historical, and organizational perspectives. Course includes 40 contact hour clinical experience. SLS 2605 - Field Experience in SLS (1-9) Allows students entering Sport and Leisure Studies program early, supervised practical experiences in a variety of sport and leisure service areas. (S/U). SLS 3005 - Computer Applctn Sport/Leisure (3) History and application of computers and information systems; emphasis on hardware and software relevant to sport and leisure programs as well as applications of common computer programs to specific leisure service and sport management situations. SLS 3103 - Outdoor Rec/Ed Urban America (3) Analysis of concepts and issues associated with outdoor recreation and education with an emphasis on urban citizen; outdoor recreation behavior in terms of individual dynamics of participation, resources for outdoor recreation, outdoor education, and outdoor leadership; achieves balance among practical information, theory, and information from current research. SLS 3104 - Commercial Rec and Tourism (3) Survey of urban commercial recreation with special emphasis on travel and tourism; sport and athletics, theaters, fitness centers, amusement and theme parks, aquatic areas, risk recreation, and historical areas, as well as the travel and tourism industry. PREREQUISITE: SLS 2105. SLS 3105 - Sport/Leisure as Pop Culture (3) The analysis of the production and consumption of sport and leisure as an aspect of contemporary popular culture; relationship between sport and leisure and the economy, the media, politics, and the experience of class, race, gender, ethnicity, and nationality. PREREQUISITE: SLS 2105. SLS 3202 - Park/Recreation Resource Mgmt (3) Management, operation, and maintenance of areas and facilities within field of recreation and parks; identification, acquisition, allocation, development, and management of land and water resources through environmentally sound techniques. SLS 3204 - Org Analysis Sport/Leisure (3) Analysis of the organization and administration of sport and leisure service organizations; organizational structuring; goals, objectives, and policy development; planning process; personnel development; risk management; conflict resolution as applied to sport and leisure services. PREREQUISITE: SLS 2105. SLS 3205 - Area/Facility Planning (3) Planning, development, and maintenance of sport and leisure facilities; inspection, comprehensive recreation surveys, and planning a layout. SLS 3305 - Leisure/Recreation Prog Devlp (3) Planning techniques in regard to citizen surveys, leisure and recreation needs analysis, leisure and recreation activity selection, and leisure and recreation program design, promotion, and evaluation. SLS 3600 - Event Management (3) Basic concepts pertaining to production of sporting events, both amateur and professional; planning, organizing, publicizing, and conducting an event. SLS 3605 - Financial Management SLS (3) Basic finance and accounting applied to managerial control of sport and leisure organizations; feasibility analysis, formulation and development of operating budgets, financial forecasting, ownership models, taxation issues, and revenue production. PREREQUISITE: SLS 2105. SLS 3650 - Sport Info/Public Relations (3) Basic knowledge and understanding of media relations in both amateur and professional sport; special emphasis is placed on building and maintaining an effective media relations program; writing for media, public relations, and business communications. PREREQUISITE: SLS 2105. SLS 3905 - Leisure/Recr Disabilities (3) Examination of role of leisure and recreation for persons with special needs including individuals with physical, emotional, mental, and social disabilities. SLS 4001 - Park/Rec Visitor Mgmt (3) Visitor management as it relates to design and management of visitor interpretive and educational services; attended and unattended services including interpretive talks, living interpretation, audio devices, self-guided tours, exhibits, and educational publications. This course may be taken to improve the grade for one, but not both, of the former courses. SLS 4105 - Leadership in Leisure Services (3) Concepts of leisure leadership through group discussion, activity, role-playing, gaming, lecture, and class projects. SLS 4125 - Gender/Race/Class Urb Sp/Lei (3) Socially constructed categories of class, race, and gender, and their influence on perceptions of the body; way these categories shape institutionalization, practice, and representation of sport and leisure is discussed with an emphasis on promoting unbiased and non-prejudicial sport and leisure cultures. PREREQUISITE: SLS 3105, or permission of the instructor. SLS 4135 - Sport/Culture Global Perspect (3) Nature, meaning, and significance of sport, leisure, and popular culture across selected nations. Identification and systematic analysis of persistent problems in American sport and popular culture as well as cultural interstices in emerging global village; cultural conflict, cultural resistance, and cultural imperialism. PREREQUISITE: SLS 2105. PREREQUISITE: Social Sciences requirement, SLS 3105, or permission of instructor. SLS 4141 - Chronology of Sport (3) Historical development of sport from either a general or sport-specific perspective including the growth of competition, the rise of sport(s), management of sport, changing function of sport, chronicles of sport as business and history of the relationship between sport and other institutions. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit when change of topic. SLS 4155 - Sport/Leisure Governance (3) Development and enforcement of policy by and within governing bodies and systems specifically for local, national, and international sport and leisure organizations. PREREQUISITE: SLS 3204 or permission of instructor. SLS 4165 - Sport/Global City (3) Synergies and disjunctures between the U.S. and global sport and leisure marketplace. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: SLS 3105, or permission of instructor. SLS 4175 - Internationl Persp Sport Mgmt (3) Management of sport and leisure organizations in a global context. SLS 4205 - Legal/Ethical SLS (3) Legal and statutory regulations relevant to sport and leisure programs in urban context; emphasis placed on promotion of ethical decision-making and practices in field of sport and leisure; developing statement of principles/values, and code of ethics; identification and compliance with relevant legal and statutory regulations; contracts; trademarks, licensing, and copyright. PREREQUISITE: SLS 2105 or permission of instructor. SLS 4500 - Sport/Leisure Mktg (3) Basic marketing concepts with applications to the uniqueness of the sport and leisure industry; event marketing, sponsorship, licensing, sport information and public relations. PREREQUISITE: SLS 2105, SLS 3105. SLS 4509 - Christianity Culture Sport/Rec (3) Phenomenon of the Christian Sport and Recreation Ministry; church sport and recreation programs; facilities and career opportunities; reasons church settings provide sport and leisure; philosophy, values, and objectives of having such programs. Includes field trips to a variety of church sport and recreation facilities. SLS 4605 - Intern Sport/Leisure Mgmt (3-12) Culminating experience allowing students the opportunity to demonstrate knowledge and skills in an appropriate professional setting based upon their training and experience. Represents a culminating experience and can only be conducted when all other course work is complete. PREREQUISITE: senior status and permission of advisor and coordinator of internships. COREQUISITE: HMSE 4999. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .