#http://www.memphis.edu/anthropology/undergraduate/
Undergraduate Resources - Department of Anthropology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Student Life Resources Undergraduate Resources Undergraduate Bulletin Undergraduate Admissions Degree Requirements and Course Descriptions Courses Required for B.A. Degree Registration Services Supervised Course Agreement University Calendars Declare Anthropology Major Home Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Undergraduate Information Whether you are seeking a degree in anthropology or pursuing an interest in anthropology through electives, the undergraduate anthropology program will give you the opportunity to study the cultures and behaviors of people from around the world throughout time. A degree in anthropology presents diverse opportunities and serves as a good foundation in fields ranging from pre-med to pre-law. Our dynamic and award-winning faculty create opportunities for enriched learning geared towards a broad array of interests. A recent survey of graduating seniors in the anthropology program found that 100% were 'very satisfied' with the accessibility of faculty and 94% were 'very satisfied' with the quality of teaching in the department. 89% of graduating seniors were very satisfied with the faculty's concern for their progress. Undergraduate Advising Coordinator Dr. Ross Sackett | rsackett@memphis.edu Phone: (901) 678-1424 Bachelor of Arts with Major in Anthropology Our department offers an undergraduate major in Anthropology. Those seeking a major in anthropology, in addition to completing University requirements for a BA degree, are required to take 30 hours in anthropology courses, including the following core courses: ANTH 1100 Human Origins and Variation ANTH 1200 Cultural Anthropology ANTH 3200 Peoples and Cultures of the World ANTH 4065 Contemporary Anthropological Theory Students can select from a variety of undergraduate courses offered by the department every semester to complete the 18 additional semester hours, at least 6 of these hours must be at the 4000 level. Bachelor of Arts with Minor in Anthropology Students who choose to minor in anthropology must complete 18 hours in anthropology courses, including the core courses listed above (ANTH 1100, 1200, 3200, and 4065). Honors Program Students also have the opportunity to participate in the Honors Program. Honors classes allow anthropology students to participate in smaller, more intensive classes. To be eligible a student must (a) have the approval of the Departmental Honors Committee, (b) be an anthropology major, (c) have attained at least junior standing, (d) have completed successfully ANTH 1100, 1200, and one upper-division anthropology course, (e) maintained a minimum cumulative grade point average of 3.00 in overall studies, (f) maintained a cumulative grade point average of at least 3.25 in anthropology, (g) completion of four honors courses in anthropology (at least one of which must be an independent study culminating in a research paper/thesis or research report) and a minimum of six hours in honors courses outside anthropology. Details of the program are available at the Department of Anthropology office. Upon completion of the requirements of the Honors Program, students will receive their degree "with Honors in Anthropology." For more information on Honors Program at The University of Memphis, visit the Honors Program website Undergraduate Resources Undergraduate Bulletin Undergraduate Admissions Degree Requirements and Course Descriptions Courses Required for B.A. Degree Registration Services Supervised Course Agreement University Calendars Declare Anthropology Major Undergrads: Declare Anthropology your major! Join the Graduate Program Learn about applied and engaged anthropology! News and Events Find out what's happening in the Department of Anthropology Contact Us Main office location and numbers, undergraduate and graduate advising Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .