#http://www.memphis.edu/records/leave.php
Leave Documentation &amp; Adjustments - HR Records Management - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. HR Records Management Staff Directory Services Deadlines FAQs Faculty Calendars Human Resources Home HR Records Management Leave Documentation &amp; Adjustments Leave Documentation &amp; Adjustments Time and Leave Reports must be prepared and maintained on all employees. The time shown on the reports should be consistent with time shown on time cards or other time and attendance records maintained by the department or activity head. It is necessary to record whole or decimal parts of days on the report when the faculty or staff member has taken annual or sick leave. Signatures on the Leave Adjustment Form must be department's authorized person, usually the department head or designee. Biweekly employees report time present and not present. Monthly employees report time not present. This does include faculty. Please refer to the links below: Employment Classification/Leave Reporting Responsibility for storage and retention of completed time cards rests with the departments. Time cards should be retained for three (3) years after which they may be destroyed providing audit requirements have been met. For monthly leave usage problems, call Employee Records at 678-2900. For Biweekly leave problems, call Payroll at extension 3841. For timekeeping location problems on Regular accounts see the staff list and phone numbers for Financial Planning . For timekeeping location problems on Grant accounts, call Grants Accounting. See the staff list and phone numbers online. The Payroll department performs timekeeping overrides. Adjustments to time should be sent to Human Resources Records with a detailed explanation. The signature on the adjustment memo should be the same signature as that used on time sheet. A copy of the time record should also be included. The employee should not send these forms. Annual Leave In Excess of Maximum at Fiscal Year-End Annual leave accrued in excess of the maximum not used by the end of the fiscal year, will be transferred to the employee's accumulated sick leave at the close of the fiscal year, unless the employee is on terminal leave, in which case the full amount of accrued annual leave shall not be carried forward. Call Employee Records at 901.678.2900 or see this policy . Regular Full Time Clerical &amp; Support Employees Years of Service Accrual Rate per Month Maximum Annual Accumulation Maximum Total Accumulation within Fiscal Year Maximum Accumulation Carried Forward to Next Fiscal Year 0 - 5 7.5 hours 90.0 hours 315.0 hours 225.0 hours 5 - 10 11.3 hours 135.6 hours 405.6 hours 270.0 hours 10 - 20 13.2 hours 158.4 hours 450.9 hours 292.5 hours 20 or more 15.0 hours 180.0 hours 495.0 hours 315.0 hours Executive, administrative, professional, and twelve-month academic personnel, who are regular full-time employees and who are exempt from the overtime and record keeping provision of the Federal Wage and Hour Law, shall accrue annual leave at the rate of 15 hours (2 days) per month with a maximum accumulation of 315 hours (42 days) to be carried forward to the next fiscal year . Employee Separation &amp; Clearance System For use with voluntary clearances only HR Partners HR's campus-wide communication group Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the U of M Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .