#http://www.memphis.edu/iso/tax/
Social Security/Income Tax Information - ISO - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. International Student Office (ISO) Students Tax Information Insurance Employment Tips Social Security/Income Tax Information Social Security Information Home ISO Social Security/Income Tax Information Income Tax Information UofM - Nonresident Alien Tax Preparation Resource If Nonresident Alien Students/ Employees are seeking a resource to assist them with preparing their tax return, please follow the below instructions: 1. Go to: bf.memphis.edu/finance/ 2. Click on Foreign National Tax Resource 3. Login (UofM ID and password) 4. Click on "please click here"... * First time users, click on new users registration to sign up (right hand corner) (Access code 7HMNQ62MRXF9) * Returning user-enter username &amp; password Useful Tax Links (parent website for the U.S. Tax agency) form - 1040NR-EZ is the most commonly used form for international students and scholars with F-1 or J-1 visas - the 8843, which must accompany the 1040 NR-EZ, and is filed alone if the student or scholar has no income. - tax treaties BOTH of these forms are needed to request a refund of social security and medicare tax if withheld in error and - (university site for direct customer service regarding tax issues with students that are non-resident aliens) Tax Treaty Information For Nationals Of India Of Canada Other Tax Treaties Tax Treaties Offering Benefits to Students These Information Sheets Are No Replacement For Direct Data From The U.S. Internal Revenue Service . Information On These Handouts Is Not For Sale , And Is Intended Only as an introduction to NonResident AlienTax Issues for International Students. Please check with your local VITA site for more details on Free Taxpayer Assistance. Social Security and Tax I.D. Numbers - Remember the Easy Steps: Arrive prepared . Bring any and all documents that an agency could ask for. Students need to bring their passport, I-20 or IAP-66, I-94 print out, and UofM I.D. card. Plan your time carefully . Don’t expect to get your driver’s license or bank account on a 1 hour lunch break. Be prepared for long lines and considerable waits. If you are rushed, it is easy to become impatient and frustrated with the process. Research the rules that protect you. Banks have a special form, called a W-8, that internationals use in place of Social Security Cards. The Tennessee Department of Motor Vehicles has an official memo to their employees listing all visa types that are not required to show SS# for driver’s licenses. Your International Students Office has these forms and letters. Remain calm and polite . Usually, front desk staff are willing to work with customers as long as communications remain civil. Losing your temper, yelling, or other displays of anger rarely achieve progress. However, it is appropriate to ask to speak with a manager or supervisor if you believe it would help the situation. Bring all the required documents . Currently, the Social Security offices in Memphis require that F-1 and J-1 visa holders bring their passport, I-20 or IAP-66, I-94 print out, and an official school letter offering employment. They will NOT issue social security cards without ALL of these documents! Taxpayer I.D. Numbers . For F-2 and non-employed F-1, J-1 and J-2 visa holders, taxpayer I.D. numbers are available. Many businesses accept these numbers in place of social security numbers. If first you don’t succeed, try try again. When all else fails , leave and come back later with re-enforcements . If no one can help you at the time you visit a business or agency, come back when a higher-level authority is available. If the International Students Office can be of assistance, ask for an official letter on your behalf. There are always other paths to achieving your goal. Note: – when you have an on-campus job, including GA’s and scholarships, be sure to visit Ms. DuHart in the Finance Office (Administration Building). Ms. DuHart and her staff in the Finance Office will make sure that you are not charged for unnecessary payroll taxes. They are experts on all tax treaties that benefit F-1 visa International Students. Social Security/Income Tax Information Social Security Information FAQs Got a question? Links of Interest More information for International Students Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .