#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/ccfa/music.php
Music - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Music Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music JOHN CHIEGO, MM Director Room 201, Music Building 901.678.3773 LENNY SCHRANZE, MMu Assistant Director for Graduate Student Services 901.678.3796 E-mail: lschranz@memphis.edu KENNETH KREITNER, PhD Assistant Director for Graduate Studies 901.678.3785 E-mail: kkreitnr@memphis.edu I. The Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music is a member of the National Association of Schools of Music. It offers three graduate degrees in music-- Master of Music, Doctor of Musical Arts, and Doctor of Philosophy--and a graduate certificate, the Artist Diploma in Music. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. A. Prerequisites All requirements for admission to the Graduate School must be met before a student's application will be considered by the School of Music. See the Admissions section of this catalog for further information. Admission to graduate study in the School of Music is competitive and will be based on the student's demonstrated fitness for advanced academic work in music and for the specific demands of the proposed concentration. A baccalaureate degree in music or the equivalent is normally expected before entrance into a graduate program in music. Students with degrees in other disciplines will be considered for admission to a master's program but may be required to make up undergraduate credits in music history, music theory, and/or other subjects as necessary for their intended concentration. Applicants to the DMA and PhD programs must submit current GRE (general) or MAT scores with the application materials. For applicants to the MMu programs, standardized test scores are optional. Auditions and Work Samples Students in performance must perform a successful audition for the music faculty in the appropriate area. Auditions are normally on the principal instrument only; students in the woodwinds specialization within the performance concentration must audition acceptably on three woodwind instruments. Students in composition must submit acceptable compositions in various media to the composition faculty. Students in music education must submit a written philosophy of music education. Students in musicology must submit an acceptable writing sample (not necessarily on a musical subject) to the appropriate faculty. Students planning a concentration in jazz and studio music must achieve a satisfactory grade on the proficiency examination administered by that division. Students showing deficiencies may be placed in appropriate undergraduate courses. Students planning to take applied jazz instruction at the 7000 level must perform an audition of classical and jazz literature in several styles. Students planning to take jazz composition/arranging must submit tapes and scores of several works for various media. All students entering master's or doctoral programs in music education are expected to hold a current teaching license in music; all requirements for licensure must be met before admission to graduate study. All students entering a master's or doctoral program in the School of Music, regardless of concentration, must take the music history and theory proficiency examinations given in the days preceding registration in each term; entering MM students (except in musicology, music education, and Orff-Schulwerk) and DMA students must also take an examination in aural theory. Students who pass these examinations may take any history or theory course they wish; those who fail are required either to retake and pass the test(s) or to take assigned remedial course(s) promptly. Students taking courses in vocal pedagogy or vocal performance must satisfactorily pass the proficiency examination in diction administered by the voice faculty. Students who fail this test must take MUSE 4211 and/or 4212 at the first opportunity. II. Master's Degree Programs The Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music offers the Master of Music degree with concentrations in performance, conducting, pedagogy, musicology, Orff-Schulwerk, music education, jazz and studio music, and composition. Program objectives are: (1) development of competency in music theory, music history, bibliography, and pedagogical areas related to the discipline; (2) preparation for advanced study in Music; (3) preparation for teaching positions at the elementary, middle, and high school level; and (4) preparation for auditions at orchestra or performing ensemble. A. Prerequisites to Master's Degree Candidacy The student shall declare a concentration area at the time of application. Admission to graduate standing in that concentration, and any subsequent changes in concentration, must be approved by the appropriate area coordinator. Evidence of keyboard proficiency is required of students in the music education, composition, and voice performance concentrations. B. Prerequisites for Graduation A student with a concentration in performance must successfully complete a hearing, normally before the area faculty, for the public recital and shall perform that recital to their satisfaction. Advisors may recommend outstanding performers for the Performer's Certificate at any time after the recital by submitting a recording of the recital to the Honors and Awards Committee of the School of Music. All students must pass a comprehensive examination administered by the School of Music. A student of whom a thesis is required shall submit a thesis acceptable to his or her advisor and committee and to the Graduate School. Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write. Certain concentrations have language requirements; see the descriptions of the individual programs below. Complete details of this outline may be obtained by writing the Associate Director for Graduate Curriculum and Advising, Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music. III. MMu Degree Program A. Core Requirements (10 Hours) Ensemble (1 hour) Music core: 3 hours of bibliography (MUHL 7400), 3 hours of music history, and 3 hours of music theory. Any graduate music theory or history course may be used for this requirement with the exception of individual studies, pedagogy, or repertory courses. (9 hours) B. Program Requirements (22-26 Hours) The individual program of study is determined as a cooperative effort between the student and his or her advisor. Performance (bass, bassoon, cello, clarinet, euphonium, flute, guitar, harpsichord, horn, oboe, organ, percussion, piano, saxophone, trombone, trumpet, tuba, viola, violin, voice, woodwinds) Applied Music (individual lessons) (12 hours) Ensemble (1 hour) Music Electives (8 hours) Recital MUAP 7999 (3 hours) NB: for students studying voice, a minimum of 3 undergraduate hours in each of French, German, and Italian and two semesters of Song Repertory are required. If such coursework has not been fulfilled during a student's undergraduate degree, it can be taken during his or her time in the Graduate School. Musicology Music History (12 hours) Minor Concentration in Music (6 hours) Ensemble (1 hour) Thesis MUHL 7996 or Lecture Recital MUAP 7899 (3 hours). NOTE: Students choosing the thesis option should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write. Reading knowledge of one foreign language, preferably German, must be demonstrated before graduation. Students taking the option of Lecture Recital must have a minimum of one semester of individual lessons at the 6000 level. Pedagogy Applied Music (individual lessons) (8 hours) Pedagogical Area (12 hours) Ensemble, or Chamber Music for students studying piano (1 hour) Recital (3 in Suzuki, 2 in Piano Pedagogy) Projects in Piano Pedagogy (piano only) (1) Orff-Schulwerk Level I Orff-Schulwerk MUSE 6802 (3 hours) Level II Orff-Schulwerk MUSE 7103 (3 hours) Level III Orff-Schulwerk MUSE 7104 (3 hours) Master Class in Orff-Schulwerk MUSE 7214 (2 hours) Courses chosen from music education (6 hours) Electives (3 hours) Orff Practicum MUSE 7998 (3 hours) Music Education MUSE 7220 Research in Music Education (3) MUSE 7222 Rsrch Appl Music Education (3) MUSE 7402 Hist Phil Music Ed (3) MUSE 7404 Assessment Music Classroom (3) Music, MUSE, and/or education electives (7) MUSE 7996 Thesis or MUSE 7995 Master's Project (3). NOTE: Students choosing the thesis option should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write. Jazz and Studio Music Advanced Improvisatory Practices and Materials MUTC 7010 (3 hours) History of Jazz MUHL 6806 (3 hours) Jazz Pedagogy MUSE 7520 (3 hours) Analytical Studies of Jazz Styles MUTC 7104 (3 hours) Lessons in performance, composition, and/or arranging (8 hours) Jazz Ensemble MUAP 7107 or Jazz Combo MUAP 7202 (3 hours) Recital MUAP 7996, Practicum MUID 7699, or Thesis MUHL 7996 (3 hours). NOTE: Students choosing the thesis option should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write. Composition Composition MUTC 7501 (12 hours) Composition Practicum MUTC 7599 (3 hours) Ensemble (1 hour) Music Electives (8 hours) Conducting Advanced Conducting MUAP 7701 (12 hours) Score Study and Aural Training for Conductors MUAP 7703 (3 hours) Ensemble as appropriate to conducting specialty (Wind, Orchestra, or University Singers) (3 hours) Music Electives (4 hours) Recital MUAP 7999 (3 hours) NB: for students studying choral conducting, the conducting faculty will assess competence in vocal pedagogy, diction for the major choral languages, and foreign-language comprehension, and may assign remedial coursework as needed. Such coursework, if assigned at the undergraduate level, may be taken while enrolled in the Graduate School. IV. Doctoral Degree Programs The Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music offers the Doctor of Musical Arts degree with concentrations in performance, composition, and conducting. The School also offers the Doctor of Philosophy degree with concentrations in musicology and music education. A. Admission to Doctoral Programs All auditions, writing or composition samples, proficiency examinations, etc., described above in "I.A. Prerequisites" are required for entry into doctoral and master's programs alike; standards for the former are naturally higher than for the latter. Completion of a master's degree in music at the University of Memphis does not guarantee admission to a doctoral program. B. Prerequisites for Doctoral Degree Candidacy Before declaring degree candidacy, doctoral students must have completed 40 hours of graduate coursework. Doctoral candidates who did not have a course in Bibliography and Research Methods at the master's level must complete MUHL 8400 during doctoral study. (Students in the PhD in music education may substitute MUSE 8220 for this requirement.) Students must fulfill all university requirements, including residency for two consecutive semesters. Students must successfully pass written and oral comprehensive examinations. For students in the PhD programs, comprehensive examinations will be taken near the end of coursework and will be tailored to the individual student's course of study and dissertation interest. For students in the DMA programs, there will be two sets of tests, the qualifying examinations in music history and theory, and later a comprehensive examination in the major and minor fields. Opportunities for remediation will be provided by courses, organized study or review sessions, and/or reading lists. A second failure will result in termination from the program. The DMA qualifying examinations will be given after the student has completed 27 hours, usually in the fourth semester of full-time study. Students may perform only one degree recital before passing the qualifying exams. The DMA comprehensive examination will normally be taken during the last semester of coursework (exclusive of dissertation hours) for the degree. The examination has a written and an oral component and will be administered by the student's committee and tailored to his or her major and minor areas. Further details may be found in the departmental Graduate Student Handbook. Unless otherwise specified, all doctoral programs have language requirements which may be satisfied by (a) successful completion of a foreign-language course at the 1020 level (or the equivalent) or higher, taken at an accredited institution within five years of entry into the doctoral program, or while the student is enrolled in the Graduate School; (b) successful completion of a foreign-language examination administered by the School of Music; or (c) successful completion of a course in computer programming language at the 6000 level or higher. Students who are native speakers of a foreign language may have this requirement waived for that language. Upon completion of these prerequisites, the student may file the candidacy forms and work with his or her committee on the proposal(s) for the dissertation or dissertation equivalent. C. The Dissertation or Dissertation Equivalent The PhD program requires a doctoral dissertation on an approved scholarly or experimental topic. For most DMA programs, the conventional dissertation is replaced by a dissertation equivalent appropriate to the individual disciplines. Submission of the Dissertation: All regulations of the Graduate School regarding the mechanics and submission of doctoral dissertations apply to dissertations and dissertation equivalents in music. All degree recitals are recorded and a copy of the recording placed on file in the Music Library. NOTE: Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write. Dissertation defense: every doctoral candidate must defend his or her dissertation or dissertation equivalent before the doctoral committee. Other faculty may attend the dissertation defense or be invited to participate. At the conclusion of the defense, the results will be conveyed in writing by the major professor to the Associate Director for Graduate Studies. Graduation: The timetable and requirements for graduation are set by the Graduate School and published elsewhere in this Bulletin. D. Post-Master's Assistantships Study at the post-master's level involves considerable sacrifice of time and often earning power to fulfill the requirement of most institutions that a full year must be spent in residence before a degree can be awarded. By awarding assistantships at the post-master's level, the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music seeks to attract the very best combination of talent and scholarship available and to encourage as many talented, mature students as possible to continue learning by providing basic subsistence during the year of residence. Normally, stipends to post-master's students will be for one to three years. V. DMA Degree Program The DMA degree is structured to allow maximum flexibility in designing a program around each student's background and needs. Although the distribution of hours is firm, program requirements are to be regarded as general rather than fixed. The student's preparation, experience, and stated goals are carefully evaluated before an individually selected course of study is prescribed. Program objectives are: (1) competency in music theory, music history, advanced research, and pedagogical for classroom or studio; (2) preparation for college or university teaching; (3) preparation for auditions at orchestra or performing ensemble. A. Core Requirements Music History (3 hours) Music Theory (3 hours) B. Concentration Area Requirements Performance (bass, bassoon, cello, clarinet, euphonium, flute, guitar, harpsichord, horn, oboe, organ, percussion, piano, saxophone, trombone, trumpet, tuba, viola, violin, voice) (60 hours) 24 hours of private lessons on the major instrument 12 hours of a minor area in music 9 hours of electives, to be chosen with the approval of the student's advisor 9 hours Dissertation Equivalent: Three public recitals, of repertory approved by the doctoral committee, are required. A formal research document on a topic approved by the committee will also be submitted to the Graduate School after the final defense; music covered by this document will also appear on one of the recitals. (These requirements are part of the applied music hours. Voice majors may submit a proposal requesting substitution of a major operatic role for one recital. Further details are contained in the "Voice Area Policies and Procedures" document, available from the area coordinator. The 9 hours of dissertation equivalent must include at least 6 hours of MUAP 8999 and at least 1 hour of MUAP 9000.) Composition (60 hours) 3 hours of MUTC 8599 Composition Practicum 18 hours of MUTC 8501 Composition 12 hours of a minor area in music 12 hours of electives, to be chosen with the approval of the student's advisor 9 hours of MUTC 9000 Dissertation: The dissertation will consist of a work of significant scope. Conducting (60 hours) 15 hours MUAP 8701, Advanced Conducting 4 hours MUAP 8702, Conducting Practicum 4 hours MUAP 8703, Score Study and Aural Training 4 hours Wind Ensemble, Orchestra, or University Singers 6 hours of coursework in choral, orchestral, or wind literature 9 hours of coursework in a minor area in music 3 hours music electives 9 hours dissertation equivalent: Three public recitals of repertory approved by the doctoral committee are required. A formal research document on a topic approved by the committee will also be submitted to the Graduate School after the final defense; music covered by this document will also appear on one of the recitals. The 9 hours of dissertation equivalent must include at least 6 hours of MUAP 8999 and at least 1 hour of MUAP 9000. VI. PhD Degree Program (60 hours) The PhD degree is structured to allow maximum flexibility in designing a program around each student's background and needs. Although the distribution of hours is firm, program requirements are to be regarded as general rather than fixed. The student's preparation, experience, and stated goals are carefully evaluated before an individually selected course of study is prescribed. Program objectives are: (1) competency in selected area of concentration and related research areas; (2) development of teaching skills; and (3) ability to successfully publish research in a selected music discipline. A. Musicology Concentration Requirements Students will follow either: A program providing a broad background in historical musicology culminating in a dissertation on a musicological topic agreed upon by the student and the doctoral committee. A minimum of eleven courses (33 hours) in the major area, including: MUHL 8400 Bibliography and Research Methods MUHL 8531 Early Musical Notations MUHL 8505 Seminar in Musicology 18 hours of graduate study outside musicology. At least 9 of these hours must be in an approved discipline outside music. MUHL 9000 Dissertation (9 hours total) Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write. A reading knowledge of two foreign languages, ordinarily including German, must be demonstrated before graduation. OR A program providing a broad background in ethnomusicology with a focus on the music of the southern United States: A minimum of eleven courses in the major area (33 hours), including: MUHL 6800 World Musical Styles MUHL 6801 American Folk and Popular Music MUHL 7400/8400 Bibliography and Research Methods MUHL 7800/8800 Field Methods in Ethnomusicology MUHL 8801 Ethnomusicology MUHL 8805 Transcription and Analysis in Ethnomusicology MUHL 8806 Seminar in Southern Regional Music Two of the remaining four courses in music shall have a major focus on Southern regional music. 18 hours of graduate study outside musicology. At least 9 of these hours must be in an approved humanistic discipline outside music. MUHL 9000 Dissertation (9 hours total). Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write. A reading knowledge of two foreign languages, ordinarily including German, must be demonstrated before graduation. B. Music Education Concentration Requirements (60 hours) Admission to the PhD program in Music Education is highly competitive. Students must submit proof of employment in the field and proof of licensure/certification. In addition, a written philosophy of music education and an example of research in the field must be submitted to the Music Education Area. MUSE 8207 Measure Music Behavior (3) MUSE 8606 Desc/Exp Research Music (3) EDPR 8541 Stat Meth App Ed I (3) EDPR 8542 Stat Meth App Ed II (3) EDPR 8561 Qualitative Mthds Educ (3) Music and/or MUSE electives (18) Minor (18) MUSE 9000 Dissertation (9). NOTE: Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write. VII. Artist Diploma Program The Artist Diploma is a certificate program providing concentrated post-baccalaureate training for prospective professional musicians. Currently it is offered violin, voice, opera direction, and opera coaching; it involves lessons and recitals (or equivalent performances) at the School of Music and an internship at the Memphis Symphony (for violinists) or Opera Memphis (for all others). A. Admission Admission for the program is highly competitive: students are admitted via an audition held conjointly with the appropriate School of Music faculty and representatives of the Memphis Symphony or Opera Memphis. Applicants must be fully accepted by both the School and the cooperating institution; there will be no provisional acceptances. Admission to the program will be subject to the usual requirements of the Graduate School for certificate-seeking graduate students. Students may pursue a graduate degree at the University of Memphis after acquiring the Artist Diploma. In such cases, they must fulfill all entrance requirements for a graduate degree, including the GRE/MAT and entrance tests in Music History and Music Theory. Up to twelve credits from the Artist Diploma may be applied to the degree, subject to the usual Graduate School time limit. Students in a graduate degree program may not transfer into the Artist Diploma program. After successful completion of a graduate program, a student may apply to and audition for the Artist Diploma program. No hours from any degree will apply to the Artist Diploma. B. Program Requirements The Artist Diploma program is four semesters long and is structured as follows: Semester 1 Lessons MUAP 7611, 7511, 7704, or 7705 (3 hours) Internship MUAP 7800 (1 hour) Semester 2 Lessons MUAP 7611, 7511, 7704, or 7705 (3 hours) Internship MUAP 7800 (1 hour) Recital MUAP 7999, 7622, or 7623 (3 hours) Semester 3 Lessons MUAP 7611, 7511, 7704, or 7705 (3 hours) Internship MUAP 7800 (1 hour) Semester 4 Lessons MUAP 7611, 7511, 7704, or 7705 (3 hours) Internship MUAP 7800 (1 hour) Recital MUAP 7999, 7622, or 7623 (3 hours) These are minimum requirements; students with graduate assistantships may be required to take more hours. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .