#http://www.memphis.edu/rsp/sponsored_programs/close_out.php
Grant Services - RSP - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Division of Research and Sponsored Programs Vice President Compliance Sponsored Programs Research Development Sponsored Programs Contract Services Grant Services Find Funding Intent to Submit Prepare Budget Prepare Proposal Submit Proposal Advance Account Award Acceptance Award Set-Up Monitoring Close Out Institutional Information Educational Resources Agency/Sponsor Links Research Resources Grants &amp; Contracts Accounting Home RSP Sponsored Programs Grant Services Close Out Relinquishment/Transfer Department or PI informs the Office of Sponsored Programs (OSPA) staff and the Sponsor's Program Official as early as possible that a PI is transferring and provides information regarding the date of transfer, what awards the PI expects to transfer, and the name of the new institution. The transfer/relinquishment date should be the last date the PI is to be employed with UofM to coincide with the day significant programmatic interest is no longer performed at this institution. If some work is expected to continue after the PI has left UofM, the PI should work with the new institution and OSP staff to establish a subaward as a mechanism for reimbursement for any expenses incurred at UofM after the relinquishment date. The OSP staff will facilitate the transfer process, based on receipt of the above information, by coordinating with the PI and other UofM units to assemble and submit the necessary documents required for the transfer. Equipment Transfer: If the PI is expecting to transfer equipment to their new institution, the Department or PI will follow the instructions outlined in the Fixed Asset Guidelines. The OSP staff is responsible for reviewing the applicable sponsor's equipment disposition guidelines to ensure UofM has the authority to transfer equipment indicated. The OSP staff will initial next to the OSP Director's signature on the equipment relinquishment letter, forward for the Director's signature, and return to Fixed Assets for processing. Grant Transfer: The OSP staff will perform an analysis of the PI's portfolio, determine the transfer procedure, if a set transfer procedure for the sponsor exists, work with the Department to estimate the account expenditures at the time of the transfer, and ask the Department which accounts the Chair will agree to be transferred. The department will work with OSP, if there are any subawards that need to be terminated. The PI will submit all non-financial documents requested as soon as possible. This may include, but is not limited to a progress report, final invention statement, certified effort report, as well as any award application documents required to be submitted from the new institution. The OSP staff will prepare the relinquishing documents in accordance with sponsor requirements or use the Non-Federal Relinquishment Letter if the sponsor does not have an established transfer procedure. Completed documents are sent to the PI and Department allowing five days grace before assumed concurrence, and then submitted to the corresponding sponsor immediately. The OSP staff maintains contact with each sponsor and PI to ensure documents are received and processed in a timely manner. The PI should be kept informed of the progress as needed. Once the sponsor has officially relinquished the award, the SPA staff will prepare and submit all final financial reports and close the OGA award. Sponsored Programs Contract Services Grant Services Find Funding Intent to Submit Prepare Budget Prepare Proposal Submit Proposal Advance Account Award Acceptance Award Set-Up Monitoring Close Out Institutional Information Educational Resources Agency/Sponsor Links Research Resources Grants &amp; Contracts Accounting Forms Forms and other useful information Staff Staff of Research and Sponsored Programs and Grants Accounting Resources Institutional information and resources for the researcher Research Portal Research Portal Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .