#http://www.memphis.edu/iso/insurance/
Insurance Information - ISO - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. International Student Office (ISO) Students Tax Information Insurance Employment Tips Insurance Information Insurance FAQs Home ISO Insurance Information Insurance Information Policy Statement International students enrolled in credit or non-credit courses at the University of Memphis must maintain major medical, repatriation of remains, and medical evacuation insurance coverage throughout enrollment at the university, including periods when students are not registered for classes. The coverage must be equal to or greater than the standard set forth by the Tennessee Board of Regents (TBR) policy 2:03:00:00. Registration Process The Center for International Programs and Services (CIPS) will place a registration hold on each UofM F-1 and J-1 student upon his or her admission to the University of Memphis (UofM). In order for this registration hold to be removed, the student will either purchase the TBR insurance policy directly from the TBR carrier and provide payment confirmation to the CIPS office or the student will show proof of insurance purchased through an independent carrier or provided through a government sponsorship or other university-approved official sponsorship. Payment for coverage must be made in full for at least the up-coming semester. F-1 students participating in the Intensive English for Internationals (IEI) program must present proof of TBR insurance coverage, coverage from an independent carrier or coverage through a government sponsorship or other university-approved official sponsorship by the final day of the late registration period. Students not providing proof by the final day of the late registration period will be required to purchase the TBR insurance on the final day of the late registration period or risk termination of their I-20’s. Payment for coverage must be made in full for at least the up-coming session. If you choose to purchase the University health insurance, please visit the Bursar's Office to purchase the insurance from a private company that has a official connection to the U of M. If you are using off-campus health insurance, you need to obtain approval for this coverage through: The insurance company completing the Certification of Insurance from an Independent Carrier form and The insurance company mailing the original Certification of Insurance from an Independent Carrier form and a copy of the purchased policy (in English) directly to the CIPS or IEI office. Coverage provided by an independent carrier must be equal to, or better than, the coverage provided by the TBR plan. Students holding insurance coverage through a government sponsorship or through a university-approved official sponsorship must provide proof of coverage in the form of an official letter from the sponsoring agency and a copy of the provided policy (in English.) The coverage must be equal to, or better than, the coverage provided by the TBR plan. Waivers A waiver of the requirement to purchase Medical Evacuation and Repatriation of Remains insurance may be possible in the following circumstance: F-1 students must purchase Medical Evacuation and Repatriation of Remains coverage unless they provide evidence that their spouse or parent is a U.S. citizen, permanent resident, or H-1B employee. J-1 students, by federal regulation, are required to purchase Medical Evacuation and Repatriation of Remains coverage regardless of their ties to the U.S. No waivers will be granted after the first week of classes each term. Whom do I Contact with Further Questions? The Center for International Programs and Services Phone: +1 (901) 678-4271 Email: insurance_cips@memphis.edu The Intensive English for Internationals Phone: +1 (901) 678-2107 Email: iei@memphis.edu Links TBR Policy Admissions Insurance Information Insurance FAQs FAQs Got a question? Links of Interest More information for International Students Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .