#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/cas/pubadmin.php
Public Administration - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Public Administration Public Administration School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy Division of Public and Nonprofit Administration The Division of Public and Nonprofit Administration offers a minor in Public Administration with courses that address competencies necessary for work in local government and public agencies. The minor is open to students majoring in any department in the University. Students must complete 18 hours in Political Science and Public Administration, including 9 hours of required core course and 9 hours from a set of guided electives. Required Courses: POLS 1030, and PADM 3501, 3601 and 4221. Guided Electives: Choose 6 hours from among the following: CJUS 4126, POLS 3211, POLS 3213, PADM 4101, POLS 4222, PADM 4226, PADM 4231, PADM 4401, PADM/ANTH 4412, PADM 4228 or PADM 4710-19. Nonprofit Management Minor The Division of Public and Nonprofit Administration offers an interdisciplinary minor in Nonprofit Management which includes courses that address competencies necessary for work in nonprofit organizations. The minor is open to students majoring in any department in the University or to special students who wish to enroll in order to take such a program. Students who complete this minor and specified co-curricular activities will be eligible for certification in Nonprofit Professional (CNP) credential by the Nonprofit Leadership Alliance. The certification program is designed to build competencies in nonprofit administration through coursework, internships, volunteer opportunities, student association leadership activities and professional development workshops. The Minor: 18 semester hours, three hours of a required course, and 15 hours from the guided electives. Required course (3 hours): PADM 4226 Introduction to Nonprofit Organizations Guided electives (15 hours): Choose one from each category: (3 hours): 1. Accounting and Financial Management: ACCT 2010, PADM 4227, PADM 4228 2. Organization and Administration: PADM 3601, MGMT 3110 3. Communication Skills: COMM 4342, COMM 4375, COMM 4380, COUN 4621, MGMT 4420 or SWRK 3902 4. Nonprofit Context: ANTH/PADM 4412, ART 3411, CSED 3302, PADM 3501, PADM 4221, POLS 3505, PSYC 3103, SOCI 4923, or SWRK 2911 5. Nonprofit Organizations: PADM 4231; INTL 4911; or SWRK 4830/4831, or another approved internship course. College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .