#http://www.memphis.edu/setwc/
SETWC - SETWC - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Southeast Transportation Workforce Center About Us Education Private Sector Public Sector Resources Focus Areas Home SETWC Upcoming Events: Society of Female TransportaTion Professionals Holiday Networking Event: Don't miss our Holiday Fundraiser &amp; Networking Event! Not just for women, MEN are also invited to network with current and future transportation professionals- all for a good cause. There is no charge to attend this FREE event, but monetary donations will be collected to benefit the Women's Foundation for a Greater Memphis. Since this is the season of giving, we hope that you will join us in giving back to an organization that is committed to helping families in the Memphis area. We will meet for happy hour on Thursday, December 3rd, from 5 - 7 p.m. at Salsa in Regalia Shopping Center, 6150 Poplar Ave #129. Appetizers will be provided. Door prizes will be awarded for the most festive holiday accessory: hat, earrings, necktie, scarf- whatever accessory gets you in the holiday spirit! While there is no charge to attend, please RSVP here . The mission of the Women's Foundation for a Greater Memphis is to encourage philanthropy and foster leadership among women and support programs that enable women and children to reach their full potential. Southeast Transportation Workforce Center Who We Are The University of Memphis (UofM) is the home of the Southeast Transportation Workforce Center (SETWC) and is part of the National Network for Transportation Workforce. The national network includes 5 regional centers hosted at the UofM, the University of Vermont, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Montana State University and California State University- Long Beach. The network structure allows sharing of best practices and leveraging of resources across the nation to improve transportation workforce outcomes. The national network is funded by the US Department of Transportation (US DOT) Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). Vision, Mission &amp; Goals The vision of SETWC is that the work of the center in concert with regional partners will lead to a right-sized, career-ready transportation workforce being produced in the southeast region. The mission of SETWC is to coordinate existing regionally based programs, plans, and processes and to strategically create partnerships to ensure that students and persons seeking workforce reentry, career transition, or career advancement are aware of opportunities, required education, skills, training, and ladders to success within the regional transportation workforce. The goals of SETWC include: Identify regional transportation job needs and priorities; Catalog existing training programs from K-12 through professional development; Evaluate existing programs for scale and replication; Identify education and training gaps; Develop resources to bridge identified gaps; and Fully engage in the national network to showcase successful programs and practices and to increase impact in the southeast region Broad Regional Scope, Unique National Expertise SETWC serves a 12-state region in the southeastern United States as well as Puerto Rico. While the center addresses the broad goals of transportation workforce development throughout the region, it also focuses on the following areas of national expertise: Women in transportation Freight (including rail, truck, warehousing and logistics) Military/veteran transition into the transportation workforce. For a printable version of our fact sheet, please click here . Join Our Mailing List! Follow SETWC Online Facebook LinkedIn Google+ Join Our Mailing List! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/12/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .