#http://blogs.memphis.edu
blogs.memphis.edu | The University of Memphis Enterprise Blog Service blogs.memphis.edu The University of Memphis Enterprise Blog Service Menu Skip to content Home About Blogs at UofM Getting Started Site Search Support Get Started on the Right Foot with Blogs If you&#8217;re just getting started using UoM blogs you&#8217;ll want to head to our Support page.  There you can find Edublogs Getting Started site and other useful aides. Blogs are a great tool, but having knowledge on how to use them makes this tool even more powerful.  Happy blogging! This entry was posted in Uncategorized on March 11, 2014 by Brooke L Wilson . Blog Dashboard Update Complete I wanted to report that the updates to the Dashboard have now gone through. Please notice the visual differences in the top and left side bars, as well as on your blog dashboard.  This update came from Edublogs due to a new update of WordPress.  WordPress is the system blogs.memphis.edu runs on. All tools remain in the same layout and location with the update, but the environment has a more modern and user friendly look. The biggest improvement is that the dashboard is completely mobile, touch, and tablet friendly, meaning it is much easier to write a new post or manage a site from any web browser on any device – no special app needed! Edublogs is also in the process of updating the screenshots on the Edublogs support site . If you have any questions, please contact the umTech Helpdesk at 901.678.8888 or email umblogs@memphis.edu . This entry was posted in Uncategorized on January 15, 2014 by Brooke L Wilson . Dashboard Upgrades Coming Soon! Edublogs Campus Networks is rolling out the latest version of WordPress in the coming days. WordPress is the system blogs.memphis.edu runs on. Upgrades will continue to roll out in waves and there&#8217;s not a specific day/time to know when our site will pass through. You will know when our site is complete when you first log in, as the dashboard will have a different look and feel. Everything will remain in the same layout and location, but the environment will be more modern and user friendly. The biggest improvement is that the dashboard will be completely mobile, touch, and tablet friendly, meaning it is much easier to write a new post or manage a site from any web browser on any device &#8211; no special app needed! Edublogs is also in the process of updating the screenshots on the Edublogs support site . If you have any questions, please contact the umTech Helpdesk at 901.678.8888 or email umblogs@memphis.edu . This entry was posted in Uncategorized on January 3, 2014 by Brooke L Wilson . Welcome to Blogs.Memphis.Edu Blogs.memphis.edu is the University&#8217;s installation of WordPress, a blogging service that allows Memphis faculty, staff, and students to collaborate around a common subject, such as an academic course, program, department, or community service. These blogs provide a place for users to share experiences, reflect on activities, and publish student creative works through written posts, pictures, videos, links, and comments.  As with other technology resources available at the University of Memphis, the Blogs.memphis.edu service is subject to the Acceptable Use of Information Technology Resources policy. ( See the link to the policy ) Please note : By creating a blog, you agree that you are solely responsible for the content you create. Neither the content of your blog, nor the links to other web sites, are approved or endorsed by the University of Memphis. The text and other material on your blogs are the opinion of the specific author and are not official statements of advice, opinion, or information of the University of Memphis. To get started using your blog, click on the Log In button at the top of this page and Log In using your Memphis UUID. After you Log In you will be at your Dashboard page.  Select your blog (tiger_tom@memphis.edu, for example) and start editing your blog! Also, here is a link that lists, The 5 Reasons Students Should Blog This entry was posted in Welcome and tagged Instructions on June 14, 2013 by Steven Terry . News/Announcements Watch this space for any news you may be interested in about blogging in general, or specifically here at UofM. Happy blogging! Helpful Links About Blogs at UofM Getting Started Site Search Support Proudly powered by WordPress Skip to toolbar University of Memphis University Home Memphis Blogs Blogging Help Log In Search