#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/nurs.php
School of Nursing - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning School of Nursing Loewenberg School of Nursing LIN ZHAN, PhD Dean Billy Mac Jones Building 901.678.2003 JILL OSWAKS, DNSc, CRNAN Associate Dean for Academic Programs I. The Loewenberg School of Nursing offers graduate programs leading to the Master of Science in Nursing with concentrations in (1) Nursing Administration, (2) Nursing Education, (3) Advanced Practice Nursing (Family Nurse Practitioner), 4) Nursing Informatics, and 5) Executive Leadership. A post-baccalaureate certificate is offered in Healthcare Informatics Leadership. A post-master's certificate is offered in the areas of Advanced Practice Nursing (Family Nurse Practitioner), Nursing Administration, Nursing Education, and Nursing Informatics. In addition, the Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) degree is offered through the Regents Online Campus Collaborative (ROCC) and is delivered following the standard protocol established for the delivery of ROCC courses and programs. The program includes four concentrations: Nursing Education, Nursing Administration, Nursing Informatics, and Family Nurse Practitioner. The MSN Program Outcomes are as follows: The MSN program prepares the graduate to: Integrate knowledge and theories from nursing and related disciplines into advanced nursing practice roles. Translate best research evidence, informatics, and technologies into advanced nursing practice to improve health and provide safe, high quality, cost-effective care to diverse populations. Practice advanced nursing independently and collaboratively with healthcare teams to address complex situations and coordinate care. Employ advocacy strategies from an advanced practice perspective to shape policy that influences health and healthcare. Students may not enroll for courses as graduate non-degree except by permission of the instructor and with approval of the Director of Graduate Studies. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MSN Degree A. Admission Because the University seeks to provide in as much as possible a reasonably safe environment for its health career students and their patients, students may be required during the course of the program to demonstrate their physical and/or emotional fitness to meet the essential requirements of the program. Such essential requirements include freedom from communicable diseases, the ability to perform certain physical tasks, and suitable emotional fitness. Any appraisal measures used to determine such physical and/or emotional fitness will be in compliance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the American with Disabilities Act of 1990, so as not to discriminate against any individual on the basis of disability. Core performance standards for admission and progression: Critical thinking ability sufficient for clinical judgment. Interpersonal abilities sufficient to interact with individuals, families, and groups from a variety of social, emotional, cultural, and intellectual backgrounds. Communication abilities sufficient for interaction with others in verbal and written form. Physical abilities sufficient to move from room to room and maneuver in small spaces. Gross and fine motor abilities sufficient to provide safe and effective nursing care. Auditory ability sufficient to monitor and assess health needs. Visual ability sufficient for observation and assessment necessary in nursing care. Tactile ability sufficient for physical assessment. Admission Requirements Admission to both the Graduate School and the Loewenberg School of Nursing is required. Admission to the program will be based on competitive selection from the pool of applicants. Multiple criteria will be used when considering applicant admission including, but not limited to, letter of interest, undergraduate and graduate grade point averages, professional experience, applicant interview, and letters of recommendation. Admission Requirements for MSN Applicants: Admission to the University of Memphis Graduate School Admission to the Loewenberg School of Nursing graduate nursing program. An undergraduate minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.8 on a 4.0 scale. Letter of interest which discusses prior professional experience, future career goals, and reasons for pursuing graduate study. Letters of recommendation from three persons qualified and familiar to judge the applicant's academic and professional background and experience in nursing practice, specifying in detail the applicant's capabilities for graduate study and for future practice as an advanced practice nurse. Interview with LSON graduate faculty if requested by Admissions Committee. Submission of current professional resume Applicants for whom English is not their primary language are required to meet the University's minimum required TOEFL score: paper based 550 or greater; internet based 79; or 213 computer based. Eligibility to practice as a Registered Nurse in Tennessee or the state in which the clinical assignments are completed. Appropriate licensure/authorization must be obtained during the first semester following admission to the program. Students transferring from another graduate nursing program must submit a letter of good standing and transcript from the dean/director of the previous nursing program. The standardized admission test is successful completion of the NCLEX licensing examination. Successful completion of 3 semester hour or 4 quarter hour undergraduate statistics course. Admission Requirements for individuals with a BSN Degree Completion of BSN An unrestricted registered nursing license to practice in Tennessee or license to practice in the state in which clinical assignments are to be completed. Admission Requirements for Registered Nurse Applicants with a BA/BS non-nursing major An unrestricted registered nursing license to practice in Tennessee or license to practice in the state in which clinical assignments are to be completed. Completion of a 12-unit RN/MSN nursing bridge sequence. RN/MSN graduates will not be awarded the BSN degree. Students admitted to MSN program, post baccalaureate certificate program, or post master's certificate programs must have and maintain while in the program: An unrestricted license to practice as a registered nurse in Tennessee or license to practice in the state in which clinical assignments are to be completed Current CPR certification Evidence of Heptavax, MMR, polio, and tetanus vaccination Rubella and varicella titers Freedom from tuberculosis as evidenced by a negative PPD or health provider examination Evidence of current professional malpractice insurance in the amount of $1,000,000 per occurrence and $6,000,000 in the aggregate. B. MSN Program Requirements - Students enrolled in the MSN program must complete 36-46 semester hours (based on concentration area) with the minimum overall grade point average of 3.0. 1. Nursing Administration Concentration (36 credit hours) The Masters of Science in Nursing (MSN) with a concentration in Nursing Administration prepares nurses for leadership, management and executive positions in health care system settings. The Nursing Administration program integrates nursing, business and management, leadership, and healthcare principles to prepare nurses in this concentration. Core Curriculum (credit hours in parentheses) NURS 7001 Healthcare Policy (3) NURS 7002 Advanced Nursing Research (3) NURS 7990 Scholarly Synthesis (3) Nursing Administration Concentration Required Courses NURS 7000 Theoretical Foundations for Advanced Practice (3) NURS 7003 Advanced Role Development (3) NURS 7301 Nursing Administration I (3) NURS 7302 Nursing Administration II (3) NURS 7305 Quality Management (3) Students must select one of the following course combinations: ACCT 7000 Fundamentals of Accounting (3) and ACCT 7010 Accounting Decision Making (3) or ACCT 7000 Fundamentals of Accounting (3) and NURS 7332 Resource Allocation in Nursing (3) or NURS 7303 Healthcare Finance (3) and NURS 7304 Human Resource Management (3) NURS 7307 Nursing Management Practicum (2) (120 clock hours) NURS 7309 Administrative Residency (4) (240 clock hours) 2. Nursing Education Concentration The MSN with a concentration in Nursing Education prepares the student as a nurse educator to teach in schools of nursing programs and in various health care system settings. Among their course of study, students will learn about nursing and educational theories, learning strategies, curricular development, program planning and evaluation, and develop skills in different teaching methodologies. Core Curriculum (credit hours in parentheses) NURS 7001 Healthcare Policy (3) NURS 7002 Advanced Nursing Research (3) NURS 7990 Scholarly Synthesis (3) Nursing Education Concentration Required Courses: NURS 7000 Theoretical Foundations for Advanced Practice (3) NURS 7003 Advanced Role Development (3) NURS 7103 Advanced Pathophysiology (3) NURS 7101 Advanced Health Assessment(3) NURS 7102 Advanced Health Assessment-Clinical (1) NURS 7104 Advanced Pharmacology (3) NURS 7204 Curriculum Design and Education Theory (3) NURS 7205 Evaluation in Nursing Education (3) One of the following clinical focus courses: NURS 7505 Adult Health Nursing (3) NURS 7525 Critical Care (3) NURS 7635 Pediatric Nursing (3) NURS 7515 Psych-Mental Health (3) NURS 7545 Women's Health &amp; Perinatal Nursing (3) NURS 7207 Clinical Focus Practicum (2) (120 clock hours) NURS 7209 Education Residency (4) (240 clock hours) 3. Family Nurse Practitioner Concentration The MSN with a concentration in Advanced Practice Nursing ( Family Nurse Practitioner) prepares advanced practice nurses who deliver primary health care to all ages; individuals and families throughout the lifespan and across the health continuum. Among their course of study, students will be provided with knowledge and clinical skills necessary for health promotion, disease prevention, assessment, and management of common acute and chronic illnesses. Core Curriculum (credit hours in parentheses) NURS 7001 Healthcare Policy (3) NURS 7002 Advanced Nursing Research (3) NURS 7990 Scholarly Synthesis (3) Family Nurse Practitioner Concentration Required Courses NURS 7000 Theoretical Foundations for Advanced Practice (3) NURS 7003 Advanced Role Development (3) NURS 7101/02 Advanced Health Assessment (3)/Advanced Health Assessment Clinic (1) NURS 7103 Advanced Pathophysiology (3) NURS 7104 Advanced Pharmacology (3) NURS 7601/7602 Family Nurse Practitioner I (3)/ Family Nurse Practitioner I Clinic (2) (120 clock hours) NURS 7603/7604 Family Nurse Practitioner II (3)/ Family Nurse Practitioner II Clinic (4) (240 clock hours) NURS 7605/7606 Family Nurse Practitioner III (3)/ Family Nurse Practitioner III Clinic (2) (120 clock hours) NURS 7609 Advanced Practice Residency (4) (240 clock hours) 4. Nursing Informatics (No admissions for 2015-2016) The Masters of Science, Family in Nursing Informatics prepares students to be nursing informatics specialists. The nursing informatics program integrates nursing science, computer science and information science and is designed to assist in the management and processing of nursing data, information and knowledge to support the practice of nursing and the delivery of nursing. Core Curriculum (credit hours in parentheses) NURS 7001 Healthcare Policy (3) NURS 7002 Advanced Nursing Research (3) NURS 7990 Scholarly Synthesis (3) Nursing Informatics Concentration Required Courses NURS 7000 Theoretical Foundations for Advanced Practice (3) NURS 7003 Advanced Role Development (3) NURS 7401 Informatics &amp; Information Management (3) NURS 7402 Health Care Information Systems (3) NURS 7403 Analysis &amp; Design of Health Care Information Systems (3) NURS 7404 Evaluation of Health Care Information Systems (3) NURS 7406 Health Care Data Analysis Techniques (3) NURS 7407 Informatics Applications (2) NURS 7409 Informatics Applications (2) NURS 7410 Informatics Practicum (4) (240 clock hours) 5. Executive Leadership (Executive MSN) The Executive MSN program prepares nurses for management and executive nursing positions in various health care setting systems. The Executive Leadership MSN program is based upon well founded principles, including the American Nurse Credentialing Center (ANCC) Magnet® Recognition Program 5 Model Components. The American Organization of Nurse Executive (AONE) Competencies, the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF)Executive Nurse Fellows Program, and the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN) Essentials of Master’s Education in Nursing. The program is an academic partner of the ANCC Magnet® Recognition Program. Core Curriculum (credit hours in parentheses) NURS 7001 Healthcare Policy (3) NURS 7002 Advanced Nursing Research (3) NURS 7990 Scholarly Synthesis (3) Executive Leadership Concentration Required Courses NURS 7007 Advanced Role Development for Nurse Executives (3) NURS 7901 Relationship Building for the Nurse Executive (3) NURS 7903 Accountability and Advocacy for Nurse Executives (3) ACCT 7080 Financial/Managerial Account Managers(3) NURS 7303 Health Care Finance (3) NURS 7904 Financial Management and Resource Allocation for Patient Care (3) NURS 7905 Improving Patient Care Delivery (3) NURS 7907 Evidence Based Leadership Practices (3) NURS 7909 Nurse Executive Practicum (4) (240 clock hours) C. Progression and Retention Requirements Students in the Loewenberg School of Nursing graduate program must comply with all retention standards of the University of Memphis Graduate School. Graduate students must maintain a 3.0 GPA ("B"). Grades of "D" and "F" will not apply toward any graduate degree, but will be computed in the GPA. No more than 7 hours of "C-", "C," or "C+" will be applied towards meeting degree requirements. The grade "I" (Incomplete) may be assigned by the faculty member in any course in which the student is unable to complete the work due to extraordinary events beyond the individual's control that are acceptable to the faculty member. The "I" may not be used to extend the term for students who complete the course with an unsatisfactory grade. Unless the student completes the requirements for removal of the "I" within 90 days from the end of the semester or summer session in which it was received (see University Calendar), the "I" will change to an "F," whether or not the student is enrolled. The faculty member may grant up to a 45-day extension if sufficient extenuating circumstances exist. At the end of the extension period, the "I" grade will automatically revert to "F" if the student has not completed the requirements. The student will be certified for graduation only when all requirements are met, including the removal of "I" grades. If a student has an "I" in a course necessary to fulfill degree requirements in the semester in which he or she expects to graduate, the certification process and graduation will automatically be deferred to the next term. Academic disqualification from the graduate nursing major will occur when the student: fails to maintain a 3.0 GPA in graduate school. fails to earn a grade of "B" (3.0) or better when repeating a course. willfully misrepresents patient data or clinical practice. willfully places any patient in physical or emotional jeopardy. is placed on probation by the Tennessee Board of Nursing. fails to disclose a felony conviction. fails to disclose disciplinary action or diversion by the Tennessee Board of Nursing. fails to complete all degree requirements within five years of entering graduate nursing coursework. Before being recommended for graduation, every candidate for the master's degree in nursing is required to either pass a final comprehensive examination or complete the oral defense of a thesis. The written examination will place emphasis on the student's area of concentration and will be administered by selected nursing faculty each semester. The candidate must be registered in the semester the comprehensive exam is taken. When the student elects to complete a thesis, the candidate must enroll for thesis credit each semester until the thesis is completed. Students must register for thesis credit in the semester in which they defend. Family Nurse Practitioner students must complete a minimum of 500 clock hours to meet the academic and practicum requirement for national certification. All requirements for the MSN degree must be completed in 5 calendar years. III. Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) Post-Master's Certificate - The Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) Certificate program provides a formal program of study for master's-prepared nurses interested in taking the national certification exam to practice as a Family Nurse Practitioner. To be eligible to take the national certification exam students must "successfully complete graduate didactic and clinical requirements of a master's nurse practitioner program through a formal graduate-level certificate or Master's level NP program in the desired area of practice." The FNP Certificate program offers a formal program of study to meet this need for students who already have the Master of Science in Nursing degree without requiring a second master's degree. Prerequisites -The following prerequisite courses must be completed at the master's level with a grade of "B" or better prior to admission. Advanced Health Assessment, (3 semester hours) Advanced Health Assessment, Clinical or Lab (1 semester hour) Advanced Pathophysiology, (3 semester hours) Advanced Pharmacology, (3 semester hours) Program Admission Admission to the program is based on competitive selection from the pool of applicants who meet the College of Graduate Studies admission requirements. Additional admission requirements for the Family Nurse Practitioner Certificate Program include: A Master's degree in nursing from an accredited program (NLNAC or CCNE). Satisfactory completion (B or better) of the following courses at the Master's level: Advanced Health Assessment : 3 semester hours Advanced Health Assessment - Clinical or lab : 1 semester hour Advanced Pathophysiology : 3 semester hours Advanced Pharmacology : 3 semester hours Eligibility to practice as a Registered Nurse in Tennessee or the state in which clinical assignments are completed. Appropriate licensure/authorization must be obtained prior to the start of the program. Overall G.P.A. of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale Applicants for whom English is not their primary language are required to meet the University's minimum required TOEFL score. A written document prepared by the applicant that includes a resume, a discussion of prior professional experience, future career goals, and reasons for pursuing graduate study. Letters of recommendation from at least three persons familiar with the applicant's academic and professional background and experience in nursing practice, specifying in detail the applicant's capabilities for graduate study and for future practice as an advanced practice nurse. Program Requirements (21 credit hours total) NURS 7601/7602 Family Nurse Practitioner I (3)/Clinic (2) (120 clock hours) NURS 7603/7604 Family Nurse Practitioner II (3)/Clinic (4) (240 clock hours) NURS 7605/7606 Family Nurse Practitioner III (3)/Clinic (2) (120 clock hours) NURS 7609 Advanced Practice Residency (4) (240 clock hours) Retention Retention requirements are the same as for the MSN degree. All requirements for the post master certificate must be completed in 5 calendar years IV. Nursing Education Post-Master's Certificate The Nursing Education Certificate program provides a formal program of study for masters prepared nurses interested in obtaining a credential allowing them to teach in School of Nursing. The program provides them with content necessary to teach nursing students in a specific area of nursing. Once students complete the certificate, they would be eligible to sit for the national certification exam in this area. A. Prerequisites -The following prerequisite courses must be completed at the master's level with a grade of "B" or better prior to admission. Advanced Health Assessment, (3 credit hours) Advanced Health Assessment, Clinical or Lab (4 credit hours) Advanced Pathophysiology, (3 credit hours) Advanced Pharmacology, (3 credit hours) B. Program Admission Admission to the program is based on competitive selection from the pool of applicants who meet the College of Graduate Studies admission requirements. Additional admission requirements for the Nursing Education Post Masters Certificate Program include: A Master's degree in nursing from an accredited program (NLNAC or CCNE). Satisfactory completion (B or better) of the following courses at the Master's level: Advanced Health Assessment : 3 semester hours Advanced Health Assessment - Clinical or lab : 1 semester hour Advanced Pathophysiology : 3 semester hours Advanced Pharmacology : 3 semester hours Eligibility to practice as a Registered Nurse in Tennessee or the state in which clinical assignments are completed. Appropriate licensure/authorization must be obtained during the first semester following admission to the program. Overall G.P.A. of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale Applicants for whom English is not their primary language are required to meet the University's minimum required TOEFL score. A written document prepared by the applicant that includes a resume, a discussion of prior professional experience, future career goals, and reasons for pursuing graduate study. Letters of recommendation from at least three persons familiar with the applicant's academic and/or professional background and experience in nursing practice, specifying in detail the applicant's capabilities for graduate study and for future practice as an advanced practice nurse. C. Program Requirements (15 credit hours total) NURS 7204 Curriculum Design And Education Theory (3) NURS 7205 Evaluation in Nursing Education(3) NURS 7207 Clinical Focus Practicum(2) NURS 7209 Nursing Education Practicum(4) One course from the following: NURS 7505 Adult Health Nursing(3) NURS 7525 Critical Care(3) NURS 7635 Pediatric Nursing(3) NURS 7515 Psych-Mental Health (3) NURS 7545 Women's Health &amp; Perinatal Nursing (3) D. Retention Retention requirements are the same as for the MSN degree. All requirements for the post master certificate must be completed in 5 calendar years V. Nursing Administration Post-Master's Certificate The Post Master’s Certificate in Nursing Administration provides a formal program of study for students who hold a Master of Science in Nursing degree in another specialty. The program provides them with content that provides a strong foundation in complex systems, organizational theory, financial management, and leadership practice. A. Program Admission Admission to the program is based on competitive selection from the pool of applicants who meet the College of Graduate Studies admission requirements. Additional admission requirements for the Nursing Administration Post-Master’s Certificate Program include: A Master's degree in nursing from an accredited program (NLNAC or CCNE). Eligibility to practice as a Registered Nurse in Tennessee or the state in which clinical assignments are completed. Appropriate licensure/authorization must be obtained during the first semester following admission to the program. Overall G.P.A. of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale Applicants for whom English is not their primary language are required to meet the University's minimum required TOEFL score. A written document prepared by the applicant that includes a resume, a discussion of prior professional experience, future career goals, and reasons for pursuing graduate study. Letters of recommendation from at least three persons (a minimum of one academic) familiar with the applicant's academic and professional background and experience in nursing practice, specifying in detail the applicant's capabilities for graduate study and for future practice as an advanced practice nurse. B. Program Requirement (21 credit hours total) NURS 7301 Nursing Administration I (3) NURS 7302 Nursing Administration II (3) NURS 7303 Health Care Finance (3) NURS 7304 Human Resources Management (3) NURS 7305 Quality Management in Nursing &amp; Health Care (3) NURS 7307 Nursing Management Practicum (3) (120 contact hours) NURS 7309 Nursing Administration Practicum (4) C. Retention Retention requirements are the same as for the MSN degree. All requirements for the post master certificate must be completed in 5 calendar year VI. Nursing Informatics Post-Master's Certificate (No admissions for 2015-2016) Nursing informatics integrates information science, computer science and more. A Master’s prepared nurse who engages in nursing informatics is an informatics nurse specialist. Nurses with a specialty in informatics identify, collect, process and manage data and information to support nursing practice, administration, education, research, and the expansion of nursing knowledge. The Nursing Informatics Post-Master’s Certificate program provides a formal program of study for masters prepared nurses interested in obtaining a certificate in Nursing Informatics. A. Program Admission Admission to the program is based on competitive selection from the pool of applicants who meet the College of Graduate Studies admission requirements. Additional admission requirements for the Nursing Informatics Post Masters Certificate Program include: A Master's degree in nursing from an accredited program (NLNAC or CCNE). Eligibility to practice as a Registered Nurse in Tennessee or the state in which clinical assignments are completed. Appropriate licensure/authorization must be obtained during the first semester following admission to the program. Overall G.P.A. of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale Applicants for whom English is not their primary language are required to meet the University's minimum required TOEFL score. A written document prepared by the applicant that includes a resume, a discussion of prior professional experience, future career goals, and reasons for pursuing graduate study. Letters of recommendation from at least three persons (a minimum of one academic) familiar with the applicant's academic and professional background and experience in nursing practice, specifying in detail the applicant's capabilities for graduate study and for future practice as an advanced practice nurse. B. Program Requirements (23 credit hours total) NURS 7401 Informatics and Information Management(3) NURS 7402 Healthcare Information Systems &amp; Technology Integration (3) NURS 7403 Analysis and Design of Health Care Information Systems (3) NURS 7404 Implementation and Evaluation of Health Care Information Systems (3) NURS 7406 Healthcare Data Analysis (3) NURS 7407 Informatics Application I (2) NURS 7409 Informatics Application II (2) NURS 7410 Informatics Practicum (4) C. Retention Retention requirements are the same as for the MSN degree. All requirements for the post master certificate must be completed in 5 calendar years. VII. Graduate Certificate (post baccalaureate) in Healthcare Informatics Leadership The purpose of this interdisciplinary post baccalaureate certificate is twofold: to provide education training to individuals who are presently working in the area of healthcare information technology; and/or prepare a workforce of individuals to meet the industry’s movement towards electronic healthcare documentation. Based on the Bureau of Labor Statistics, employment in medical and health informatics is expected to increase by 16 percent through the year 2016. That’s faster than the average for all occupations in the United States. Therefore, the Loewenberg School of Nursing and School of Public Health have collaborated to design and provide a course of study that prepares this unique group of professionals. A. Program Admission: Admission to the program will be based on competitive selection from the pool of applicants. Students must: Complete admission to The University of Memphis and Loewenberg School of Nursing or School of Public Health Applicants for whom English is not their primary language are required to meet the University's minimum required TOEFL score. A minimum of a BSN or BS/BA in a related healthcare field with a cumulative GPA 2.8 on a 4.0 point scale. B. Program Requirements: Completion of 18 semester hours distributed as follows: Required courses: NURS/HADM 7401, Informatics and Information Management (3) HADM 7110, Health Management Leadership (3) NURS/HADM 7402, Healthcare Information Systems and Technology Integration (3) NURS/HADM 7403, Analysis and Design of Healthcare Information Systems (3) NURS/HADM 7404, Evaluation and Implementation of Healthcare Information Systems(3) NURS/HADM 7406, Healthcare Data Analysis (3) C. Graduation Requirements: The student must complete all six required courses with an average grade of B (3.0) or higher. All courses towards certification must be completed within 5 years. In the semester of graduation, the student must submit the Apply to Graduate form to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the College Director of Graduate Studies by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. VIII. Master of Science in Nursing (M.S.N.) Regents Online Campus Collaborative (ROCC) The Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) degree is offered through the Regents Online Campus Collaborative (ROCC), a collaborative effort among Colleges and Schools for Nursing in the Tennessee Board of Regents system to educate and fill nursing shortages in the healthcare industry. This program and courses are delivered following the standard protocol established for the delivery of ROCC courses and programs. The program includes four concentrations: Nursing Education, Nursing Administration, Nursing Informatics, and Family Nurse Practitioner. Courses are offered each semester (fall, spring, and summer) through all six Tennessee Board of Regents universities. The program requires completion of 34-46 semester credit hours depending on the concentration. For more information, please visit A. Program Admission Requirements All candidates must apply to the Regents Online Campus Collaborative (ROCC) and deemed eligible before applying to the home school (University of Memphis). Applicants MUST wait for notification of eligibility and designation of the University of Memphis as the home campus assignment before applying to the Graduate Division and Loewenberg School of Nursing at the University of Memphis. The ROCC application can be found at the ROCC homepage ( ). Admission to the program will be based on competitive selection from the pool of applicants who meet the the Graduate Division admission requirements from the designated home school. Additional admission requirements for the Master of Science in Nursing Regents Online Degree Program include: Admission to the University of Memphis Graduate School Admission to the Loewenberg School of Nursing graduate nursing program. An undergraduate minimum cumulative grade point average of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale. Letter of interest which discusses prior professional experience, future career goals, and reasons for pursuing graduate study. Letters of recommendation from three persons familiar with the applicant's academic and professional background and experience in nursing practice, specifying in detail the applicant's capabilities for graduate study and for future practice as an advanced practice nurse. Interview with LSON graduate faculty if requested by Admissions Committee. Submission of current professional resume Applicants for whom English is not their primary language are required to meet the University's minimum required TOEFL score: paper based 550; internet based 79; or computer based 213. Eligibility to practice as a Registered Nurse in Tennessee or the state in which the clinical assignments are completed. Appropriate licensure/authorization must be obtained during the first semester following admission to the program. Students transferring from another graduate nursing program must submit a letter of good standing and transcript from the dean/director of the previous nursing program. The standardized admission test is successful completion of the NCLEX licensing examination. Successful completion of a 3 semester hour or 4 quarter hour undergraduate statistics course. B. Progression Standards - MSN-RODP Students in graduate nursing programs must meet the same requirements of the University of Memphis Graduate Division and the Loewenberg School of Nursing MSN students. See “Progression and Retention” above. C. Degree Requirements Students enrolled in the Nursing Administration specialty must satisfactorily complete 36 credit hours of coursework. Students in the Nursing Informatics specialty must complete 38 credit hours. Students in the Nursing Education specialty must complete 40 credit hours and students in the Advanced Practice specialty must complete 46 credit hours. Specific courses are required of students who plan to take a national certification examination. All students are required to pass a written comprehensive examination or satisfactorily complete culminating experience in the final semester of the program. Courses are selected and approved in conjunction with the student’s advisor. D. Concentrations Students enrolled in the Master of Science in Nursing - Regents Online Degree Program (MSN-RODP) will complete courses as indicated for their selected concentration. 1. NURSING ADMINISTRATION CONCENTRATION NURS 7000 - Theoretical Foundations of Advanced Nursing Practice (3 credits) NURS 7001 - Health Care Policy (3 credits) NURS 7002 - Advanced Nursing Research (3 credits) NURS 7003 - Advanced Role Development (3 credits) NURS 7990 - Scholarly Synthesis (3 credits) NURS 7301 - Nursing Administration I (3 credits) NURS 7302 - Nursing Administration II (3 credits) NURS 7303 - Health Care Finance (3 credits) NURS 7304 - Human Resources Management (3 credits) NURS 7305 - Quality Management in Nursing and Health Care (3 credits) NURS 7307 - Nursing Management Practicum (2 credits) NURS 7309 - Nursing Administration Practicum (4 credits) 2. NURSING INFORMATICS CONCENTRATION NURS 7000 - Theoretical Foundations of Advanced Nursing Practice (3 credits) NURS 7001 - Health Care Policy (3 credits) NURS 7002 - Advanced Nursing Research (3 credits) NURS 7003 - Advanced Role Development (3 credits) NURS 7990 - Scholarly Synthesis (3 credits) NURS 7401 - Informatics and Information Management (3 credits) NURS 7402 - Health Care Information Systems (3 credits) NURS 7403 - Analysis and Design of Health Care Information Systems (3 credits) NURS 7404 - Evaluation of Health Care Information Systems (3 credits) NURS 7405 - Health Care Data Analysis Techniques (3 credits) NURS 7407 - Informatics Applications I (2 credits) NURS 7409 - Informatics Applications II (2 credits) NURS 7410 – Informatics Practicum (4 credits) 3. NURSING EDUCATION CONCENTRATION NURS 7000 - Theoretical Foundations of Advanced Nursing Practice (3 credits) NURS 7001 - Health Care Policy (3 credits) NURS 7002 - Advanced Nursing Research (3 credits) NURS 7003 - Advanced Role Development (3 credits) NURS 7990 - Scholarly Synthesis (3 credits) NURS 7101 - Advanced Health Assessment (3 credits) NURS 7102 - Advanced Health Assessment Clinical (1 credit) NURS 7103 - Advanced Pathophysiology (3 credits) NURS 7104 - Advanced Clinical Pharmacology (3 credits) NURS 7204 - Curriculum Design and Educational Theory (3 credits) NURS 7205 - Evaluation Methods of Nursing Education (3 credits) NURS 7207 Clinical Focus Practicum (2 credits) NURS 7209 – Nursing Education Practicum (4 credits) Choose one course from the following 3 credit hour courses: NURS 7505 - Advanced Adult Health Nursing (3 credits) NURS 7515 - Advanced Psychiatric/Mental Health Nursing (3 credits) NURS 7525 - Advanced Critical Care Nursing (3 credits) NURS 7545 - Advanced Women's Health and Perinatal Nursing (3 credits) NURS 7635 - Advanced Pediatric Nursing (3 credits) 4. FAMILY NURSE PRACTITIONER CONCENTRATION NURS 7000 - Theoretical Foundations of Advanced Nursing Practice (3 credits) NURS 7001 - Health Care Policy (3 credits) NURS 7002 - Advanced Nursing Research (3 credits) NURS 7003 - Advanced Role Development (3 credits) NURS 7990 - Scholarly Synthesis (3 credits) NURS 7101 - Advanced Health Assessment (3 credits) NURS 7102 - Advanced Health Assessment Clinical (1 credit) NURS 7103 - Advanced Pathophysiology (3 credits) NURS 7104 - Advanced Clinical Pharmacology (3 credits) NURS 7601 - Family Nurse Practitioner I (3 credits) NURS 7602 - Family Nurse Practitioner I Clinical (2 credits) NURS 7603 - Family Nurse Practitioner II (3 credits) NURS 7604 - Family Nurse Practitioner II – Clinical (4 credits) NURS 7605 - Family Nurse Practitioner III (3 credits) NURS 7606 - Family Nurse Practitioner III – Clinical (2 credits) NURS 7609 - Advanced Practice Residency (4 credits) Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .