#http://bf.memphis.edu/forms/tech/bf_access_request.htm
Request for B&amp;F System Access Request for B&amp;F System Access General Online Help Submit form to Scates Hall, Room 311 Fax: 678-3061 Email scanned forms to itsas@memphis.edu Please allow a two-week minimum turnaround time after submitting form. Business and Finance Access Roles and Definitions Please use this form to request access to Business and Finance data and transactions in Banner, OnBase (Matrix), Tigerbuy and Hyperion. E~Print reports are included with access to Banner.  Please refer to University Policy UM1303 for additional authorized signature information and UM1507 Procurement and Contract Services.  WorkforUM access and privileges are based on Banner Finance roles and organization codes, please review WorkforUM roles . Annual IT Security Awareness training is mandatory for the following groups: Employees with Banner Finance and Banner HR access (e.g., finance managers, designees, Bursar’s Office employees, etc.) All Information Technology Services (ITS) employees IT Security Awareness training consists of several modules that are one to five minutes long. Once all modules have been completed a certificate will be available. An email will be sent to you with a link to access the training modules. Financial Transactions Banner Finance Query Banner online budget transfers, journal entries, and Travel purchase orders are processed in Self Service (SSB). Purchase orders for goods and services are processed in Tigerbuy. Query access to budget status, financial transactions and pending transactions are available in Banner Self Service (SSB), Internet Native Banner (INB), and e~Print.  OnBase (Matrix) is the University’s document retention system with check and invoice data. Financial Manager Finance and HR An individual designated by position title to be responsible for the financial activity of an assigned organization. Tigerbuy approver and receiver access will be granted but training is required for Tigerbuy requester access. Authority is granted to create, approve and monitor financial transactions including time and leave reporting. When approving time and leave reporting, the financial manager is known as the Web Time Entry approver. A financial manager is expected to give careful consideration to appointing acknowledgers, approvers, designees, and proxies to act on his or her behalf and to oversee their activities. Designee /Proxy Finance and HR An individual appointed by a financial manager to act on his/her behalf when creating and approving financial transactions in Banner, Tigerbuy and EPAFs. Tigerbuy approver and receiver access will be granted but training is required for Tigerbuy requester access. This person is called a proxy when approving time and leave reporting, with access to HR and FI data in Banner. Approver Finance An individual appointed by a financial manager to act on his or her behalf when approving purchase requisitions less than $5000, cash reimbursements, and transfer vouchers only. Tigerbuy approver and receiver access will be granted but training is required for Tigerbuy requester access. Non Approver Finance An individual appointed by a financial manager to create financial transactions, but no access to Tigerbuy is granted. If the user needs Tigerbuy access as well as Banner access, please select Tigerbuy Requester and/or Tigerbuy Receiver in addition to Non-Approver. No approval authority. Tigerbuy Requester An individual appointed by a financial manager to create purchase requisitions in Tigerbuy with no approval authority. No access is granted to Banner. Tigerbuy Receiver An individual appointed by a financial manager to receipt goods and services in Tigerbuy with no approval authority. No access is granted to Banner. Budget Transfer Limited Access An individual appointed by a financial manager to act on his/her behalf to create budget transfers only with no access to financial reports in Banner or e~Print, and no approval authority. Usually granted to users in other departments to create budget revisions between org codes when one of the org codes is not the org code of employment. Faculty Budget e~Print Report Any faculty member that needs access to the departmental budget report in e~Print. Departmental User HR data An individual appointed by a financial manager to query Human Resource information for all employees within an organization and EPAF originator access.  No approval authority. Proxy Time and Leave An individual appointed by a financial manager to approve time and leave on his/her behalf. No access to Banner HR or FI data is granted. Acknowledger Time and Leave An individual appointed by a financial manager to review time and leave transactions prior to final approval by financial manager or proxy. No approval authority. Financial Managers and Designees can appoint an equipment representative on the Finance Program Guide Equipment Rep Maintenance site . Each organization may appoint one user to process equipment transfers and location changes in the Fixed Asset Workflow.  Most Banner Finance roles include query access to fixed asset information in Banner and e~Print. When requesting access role Budget Transfer Limited Access , the Financial Manager or Designee of the organization to which the user will have access to initiate budget transfers must sign the request form. Once the request form is completed, signed by the requester and financial manager, submit the form to Information Technology Services, 311 Scates Hall, or email a scanned copy to itsas@memphis.edu , or fax to 678-3061.  It is the responsibility of the financial manager to notify ITSAS when an employee leaves the department or has a change in employment status.  Please note that applying security is a multi-step process and often takes several days to complete.  We appreciate your patience and welcome your comments, questions and suggestions. Please note that there are two forms for requesting access to B&amp;F systems; one for regular employees and one for students/temporaries/agents of the University.                                         The University of Memphis, one of the Tennessee Board of Regents institutions, is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action University.