#http://www.memphis.edu/sph/programs/populationhealth.php
Population Health Certificate - SPH - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Public Health About Programs People Students &amp; Alumni News Programs MHA Admissions Apply Now Competencies Day One Internship Handbook Mission, Vision and Values Newsletter Program Requirements MPH Admissions Apply Now Competencies Handbook Practicum Program Requirements Epi PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook HSP PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook SBS PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook Population Health Certificate Interpreter Course Interpreter Course Information Interpreter Course Requirements Interpreter Course Registration &amp; Payment Home SPH Programs Population Health Certificate Population Health Graduate Certificate SPH is pleased to offer a new graduate certificate in Population Health. The certificate, which can be completed in two semesters, offers focused academic training for public health practitioners and other healthcare leaders who are interested in improving health outcomes in the community. Credit earned for the courses may be applied to an MPH degree. Courses inlcude: PUBH 7150 Biostatistical Methods (Fall) PUBH 7170 Epidemiology in Public Health (Fall) HADM 7105 Health Policy and Organization of Health Services (Spring) PUBH 7120 Environmental Health (Spring) PUBH 7160 Social and Behavioral Science Principles (Spring) admission requirements Students must have completed a bachelor's degree with a cumulative grade point average of at least 2.5, and apply for admission to the University of Memphis Graduate School as a non-degree seeking student, selecting Graduate Certificate in Population Health from the drop-down menu. Acceptance into the certificate program is not an implied acceptance into any master's degree program. The following is required: Transcripts of undergraduate degree program and any prior graduate study; to be submitted to the University of Memphis Graduate School. A completed application form and a one-page letter describing applicant's intent to pursue the certificate, and its relevance to his/her career goals; to be submitted to the Academic Services Coordinator II (contact information is provided below). Applicants for whom English is not the primary language are required to meet the University's minimum TOEFL score. certificate and graduation requirements Students must complete the five courses (15 credit hours) listed above, with a minimum grade of B in each course. All five courses must be completed within five (5) years of enrollment. In the semester of graduation, the student must submit the Intent to Graduate form to the University of Memphis Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the School's Director of Graduate Studies by the deadline specified by the University of Memphis Graduate School. for more information, or to apply, please contact: Shirl Sharpe, MS, Academic Services Coordinator II 114 Robison Hall 901.678.1710 Shirl Sharpe Programs MHA Admissions Apply Now Competencies Day One Internship Handbook Mission, Vision and Values Newsletter Program Requirements MPH Admissions Apply Now Competencies Handbook Practicum Program Requirements Epi PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook HSP PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook SBS PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook Population Health Certificate Interpreter Course Interpreter Course Information Interpreter Course Requirements Interpreter Course Registration &amp; Payment Apply Now Contact Us Support SPH Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .