#http://www.memphis.edu/fl/
Foreign Languages &amp; Literatures - FL - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures About Programs Languages People Study Abroad Scholarships Home FL Broadening the Intellectual and Cultural Horizons of Students Foreign Language study is central to the mission of The University of Memphis to educate its students for a diverse and global society. With today's levels of foreign trade, tourism, international business, and international relations, knowledge of other languages and an understanding of other cultures is a must. Our Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures offers not only basic language instruction, but also offers advanced work in foreign literatures, linguistics, culture, civilization, and business. Which languages can you study here? You have a choice of eleven! Instruction is offered in Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Hebrew, Italian, Japanese, Latin, Portuguese, Russian, and Spanish. Students may complete a major with a single-language concentration in French, German, Italian, Japanese, Latin, or Spanish, or a two or three-language concentration combining any of the following: Chinese, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Latin, Portuguese, Russian, and Spanish. You can also create a minor in a particular language to enhance a major in such fields as Political Science, Business, History, Anthropology, Art History, English, and International Studies—among others! Check our four-year plans here. What other opportunities can you enjoy in the University of Memphis Department of Foreign Languages? Study Abroad : Semester, full-year and summer abroad programs for academic credit Language Media Center Weekly foreign language conversation tables Language clubs and international film festivals Award-winning teaching and research faculty, many of them native speakers Assisting with the annual language fair competition for high school students Excellent preparation for an International MBA degree here or elsewhere Eligibility for the Mary Pettus Thomas Scholarship for foreign language majors job announcement Assistant Professor of Japanese : The Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures at The University of Memphis invites applications for a tenure-track position in the field of Japanese language beginning August 2016 pending availability of funds. Ph.D. in Japanese language or related field in hand by time of appointment. Native or near-native proficiency in Japanese and English required. Specialization in one or more of these fields: Japanese language pedagogy, applied linguistics, sociolinguistics. Interest in integration of language study and interdisciplinary study such as Japanese culture including pop culture, Japanese performing arts, international business, and community-based/ service learning programs are highly desired. Use of technology in classroom teaching and familiarity with current language pedagogy required. Strong promise of research output in the field and commitment to teaching as demonstrated by student and supervisor evaluations. Duties will include teaching at all levels both at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Applicants must upload a cover letter indicating their teaching skills/philosophy, current CV, unofficial transcript, the email addresses for three references whom you have contacted to submit letters of recommendation, and recent student and supervisor evaluations (2014-2015) at . Deadline for submission of all documents is December 1, 2015. If you require additional information, please contact Professor Yuki Matsuda at ymatsuda@memphis.edu . The University of Memphis, a Tennessee Board of Regents institution, is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer. We urge all qualified applicants to apply for this position. Appointment will be based on qualifications as they relate to position requirements without regard to race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age, disability or veteran status. Events Including Language Fair, Film Festivals, Lectures, and other activities Student Resources Language Media Center, Language Tables, Placement Testing and Tutoring Newsletter Get the News from Foreign Languages &amp; Literatures Contact Us! Email, location and hours for the main office. Follow Us Online Facebook Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/3/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .