#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbephd/academics/admission_info.php
How To Apply - FCBEPhD - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Doctoral Programs Welcome Programs Students Faculty &amp; Staff Research News FCBE Academics Curriculum Program Concentrations Ph.D. Degree Learning Outcomes How To Apply Students Information for Students Program Policies Policy For Retention Appeal Hearing Alumni News FAQs Contact Us Home FCBEPhD Academics How To Apply How To Apply Accounting and Management concentrations are not admitting PhD for Fall 2015. Deadline to Apply for Fall 2015 was March 1st 2015. To be considered for the Ph.D. program, applicants must first meet the University's minimum admission standards. This means an acceptable GMAT or GRE score and a graduate GPA of at least 3.2 on a 4.0 scale. Persons meeting the requirements for admission to the Graduate School are eligible to apply for admission to the Ph.D. program in Business Administration. Admission to the Fogelman College's Ph.D. program is based on: a thorough review of the qualifications of the applicant, space availability in the program, and fit between the Department program objectives and the applicant's objectives. The Academic Program Admissions Committee makes Ph.D. admission decision recommendations in conjunction with the Associate Dean for Academic Programs to the Vice Provost for Graduate Studies . The applicant's entire academic record is reviewed, including GMAT or GRE score, undergraduate and graduate grades, and three letters of recommendation. Also, a resume and a statement of personal career objectives must be submitted, and a personal interview is normally required. An initial review is based upon an examination of exam score and grade point average of previous work. The higher your exam score, the higher your chances of being accepted and being considered for a departmental scholarship. The average exam score for admitted applicants has been above 600 GMAT and 1200 GRE for the past three years. The final admission decision recommendation is based on the above criteria and graduate faculty evaluation of the applicant's potential for success in a doctoral program in business administration. For students without a master's degree, equivalent scores based on undergraduate GPA are required, and students may be admitted initially to the graduate master's program. How To Apply Step 1: Complete online Graduate Application to the Graduate School and submit fee. Domestic Graduate Application or International Graduate Application Applicants should complete "Planned Course of Study" section of the online application. Your “Planned Choice of Study:” should be “Business Administration PhD” then indicate your concentration. Admission Applications will not be processed without application fee. Step 2: Departmental Application and Supporting Materials to the FCBE Resume Test scores (GMAT, GRE) (unofficial copies are acceptable at this step) Transcripts (unofficial copies are acceptable at this step) Statement of Purpose Letters of Recommendation from three (3) individuals Department Financial Assistance Application Note: Some forms (PDF) require Adobe Acrobat Reader which can be downloaded from Send to: Ph.D. Programs Office 426 Fogelman College Admin Bldg The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152-3120 Step 3 : Official Documents to the Graduate School Official Transcripts Official Test Scores (GMAT or GRE) Additional requirements for international applicants: Official Test Scores (TOEFL) Affidavit of Financial Support Evaluation of Credentials Evaluation of Credentials: Applicants whose highest degree is from a foreign university must have their credentials evaluated. The University will accept evaluation done by any credentialing agency listed on the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services' website ( ). The course-to-course report is required. For general information on the equivalency of international degrees, go to Send to: Office of Graduate Admissions [ email ] 200 Wilder Tower The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152-6627 Financial Assistance Departmental Financial Aid is awarded to incoming students beginning the Fall semester with GMAT or GRE scores in the 80 th to 90 th percentile. Since there are a limited number of graduate assistantships available, Departments encourage students to apply in late February and early March. To apply for departmental financial assistance, complete the assistantship application form and submit with above listed materials to the Ph.D. Programs Office. Application Deadlines The Fogelman College of Business and Economics Departmental Admissions Committees will begin reviewing completed application materials on September 15th for the next Fall. Domestic &amp; International (Fall Semester): March 1 Please note: College Deadlines are not the same as University deadlines. The preferred entry semester is Fall . Most areas begin reviewing applications for the Fall semester early, therefore it is best not wait until the deadline. For more information please see the current Graduate Bulletin or contact the Ph.D. Program Coordinator for your area of concentration. All departments do not necessarily admit each year. Academics Curriculum Program Concentrations Ph.D. Degree Learning Outcomes How To Apply Students Information for Students Program Policies Policy For Retention Appeal Hearing Alumni News FAQs Contact Us Program Concentrations Learn about our doctoral offerings! Information for Students Looking for forms or policies? Look no further! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .