#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/membership/benefits.php
Services &amp; Benefits - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About Membership Join Now Services &amp; Benefits List of Benefits Email365 Insurance Travel New Grads Students Pouncer's Pals Home UMAA Membership Services &amp; Benefits Alumni Association Membership Benefits Members of the University of Memphis Alumni Association receive a diverse benefit package. Don't forget your Association Membership Card when enjoying benefits! Member Discounts AAA Auto Club : 14 month coverage for the price of 12 month coverage Bartlett Soap Company : Receive 10% off your entire purchase in store with your Alumni Membership card. Located at 6269 E Stage Plaza, Bartlett, TN 38134. C.H Nash Museum at Chucalissa : Free Admission Chuck Hutton Chevrolet : Receive invoice pricing on all new vehicle purchases, special used vehicle pricing ($100 off of your best deal) , $10 off any service (not to be combined with any other specials), and free car wash and 21 point inspection with any service. Must present Alumni Association card at time of purchase. ESPN: The Magazine : Receive 25% discount. The magazine delivers insight &amp; analysis from the best writers in the industry: Buster Olney, Mel Kiper Jr. &amp; more. Each issue contains stunning photos &amp; in-depth features. Published 26 times a year &amp; delivered to your doorstep To order click here and enter in the alumni promo code. Fantastic Sams : 10% discount. Locations on Poplar and Highland and Highway 64 (Lakeland) only. Flagcenter.com : 10% discount on all merchandise, including UofM car flags, garden flags, house banners, etc. Location on 4550 Summer (at Perkins). Lenny's Sub Shop : 10% Discount off any purchase at Lenny’s (521 South Highland, Store # 544). Lenny’s now offers catering &amp; delivery, receive 10% off all catering orders, $8 minimum delivery. Lenny’s is open until 11pm M-F, until 9pm on Saturday, and 6pm on Sunday! Customers may show their Alumni Association membership cards at the store or visit Mahaffey Tent &amp; Party Rentals : 10% discount on all rentals (excluding labor and delivery) Memphis Botanic Garden : Enjoy two VIP tickets with a purchase of a Garden Membership. Memphis Magazine: Receive a one year subscription for only $10 (compare to $15). Each year you will receive 12 issues of Memphis magazine including the annual Restaurant Guide, Top Doctors edition, complete City Guide, and much more. Don't miss this exciting opportunity to have complete coverage of the Bluff City's events, culture, history, people, places, and more sent straight to your mailbox each month! Log into myMemphis and click on the "Association Members" tab for the savings code. Memphis Redbirds Baseball : Receive a $2 discount on a day-of-game ticket purchase (Bluff tickets excluded). Midas Auto Service : $5 off oil change and 12% discount on all other services. Locations on Brookhaven Circle and Pleasant View only. Optometry Group : 18% discount on eye exams and glasses. Location: 3445 Poplar Avenue, Suite 7, Memphis, 38117; Phone: 901/458-2020 Orpheum Memphis : Members: Check your email or this page regularly for special pre-sale offers or discounted tickets to select productions at the Orpheum-Memphis. Panera Bread : Receive $50 gift card after five catering orders, minimum $100 per order (without Association Membership, gift card is awarded after 10 orders). Memphis-area locations only, please. Perkins Restaurant &amp; Bakery : 10% discount. Location at Highland and Poplar only. Precision Painting Company : 20% discount on services, including: painting, pressure washing, home restoration, carpentry work, lawn maintenance, carpeting, roofing, blow/textured ceilings, flooring and more. Contact owner Terry Cox at 901.398.5736, office, 901.649.3944, cell, or precisionpaintingcom@yahoo.com Green Machine Concerts : Association Members may enjoy complimentary tickets to concerts (Membership will be emailed when available.) Tiger Bookstore : 20% discount on merchandise and used textbooks, 10% discount on new textbooks. 3533 Walker Avenue, 901.324.2808 Weight Watchers : Free registration, $15/first week, $12/each week after Campus Discounts University of Memphis Bookstore : The University of Memphis Bookstore offers a complete selection of the University of Memphis clothing, gifts and memorabilia. From time to time, special Alumni promotions will be offered in the Bookstore. Please visit the web site to view merchandise and learn more about upcoming promotional events. Holiday Inn, University of Memphis : 10% discount on ROOMS (rack/published rate), advance reservations required (901.678.8200). For personal use only, does not apply to business, government, association travel, group blocks or with other discounts and FOOD: 10% discount for meals taken in The Medallion Restaurant (Does not apply to alcohol, group functions, special events or with other discounts/coupons.) Campus Recreation Center : $5 daily rate; 1 guest is allowed per Association Member at $5/visit. Closed to the public. All Degreed Alumni can purchase memberships: $720 individual/year, or $1200 family/year; or, with a minimum of 3 month purchase: $30 individual/month or $60 family/month. Visit for more info. University of Memphis Library Special Privileges Card : Must show Association Membership card; Closed to the public. May check out up to 10 books for 30 days; online database is not included. Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation: Have an idea for a new business venture, but need assistance putting the details together? The Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation is a new service on the University of Memphis campus that is available for all students and alumni free of charge. For more information, contact the department at cei@memphis.edu or 901.678.5266. The office is located in Room 326 of the FedEx Institute of Technology. Access to the Alumni Center for Club and Chapter events Discounted tickets at special Alumni Night athletic events E-mail 365 : Retain your @ memphis.edu email inbox after graduation. Click here for more details. University of Memphis Theatre Performances : Half price individual tickets and $5 large group tickets Financial and Consumer Programs First South Credit Union : Waived membership fee to First South Financial Credit Union. To learn more, visit firstsouth.com or call 901.678.4040. Family eligible for Alumni Association Scholarship Mercer : Alumni may purchase a variety of high quality, competitively priced insurance products through the University of Memphis Alumni Association. These plans are administered by Mercer Consumer, a service of Mercer Health &amp; Benefits Administration LLC, one of the largest brokers of alumni association insurance in the United States. Learn more at alumniplans.com/memphis or call Mercer's award-winning customer service at 888.560.ALUM. Liberty Mutual Auto and Home Program : A Message from Liberty Mutual Insurance Liberty Mutual has partnered with the UofM Alumni Association to offer alumni exclusive savings on quality auto and home insurance tailored for the way you live today. You could also enjoy valuable discounts such as New to Liberty, Newly Married, New Move, and Hybrid Vehicle.* Call 888.620.2146 or visit Liberty Mutual to learn more or get a free quote. *Discounts and savings are available where state laws and regulations allow, and may vary by state. To the extent permitted by law, applicants are individually underwritten; not all applicants may qualify. Bank of America ® Credit Card : Show your pride and do your school proud. Carry the card wherever you go and show the world where you've been. For every purchase dollar you spend on the card, you’ll earn 1 WorldPoints® point that can be redeemed for the rewards you really want. Learn More! For more information about the rates, fees, other costs and benefits of the card, click here. Bank of America Checking/Debit Account : Open a University of Memphis Alumni Association personal checking account offered by Bank of America* and generate contributions to the Alumni Association with every debit card purchase. Enjoy benefits like checks** and a debit card that feature the UofM logo. And enjoy secure online account access, plus Mobile Banking on your mobile device.** To open your University of Memphis checking account, visit your neighborhood Bank of America or visit bankofamerica.com/Memphis . *University of Memphis Alumni Association checking is available with eligible checking accounts. **Check order fees may apply. To access Online or Mobile Banking, you must enroll in the service. Once enrolled, the same Online ID and passcode can be used to access both Online and Mobile Banking. View the Online Banking Service Agreement at bankofamerica.com/serviceagreement for more information. Data connection required. Wireless carrier fees may apply. Enrollment not available through the Mobile App on all devices. By opening and/or using these products from Bank of America, you’ll be providing valuable financial support to the University of Memphis Alumni Association. Bank of America, N.A. Member FDIC. ©2014 Bank of America Corporation Evolve Bank &amp; Trust : Offers $300 off closing costs on any home refinance or home purchase for Alumni Association members and UofM employees., the Evolve "best price guarantee," and special offer on an Evolve checking account. Click here for more information. Career Services University of Memphis Career Services Offers the following: • Career Encounters Shadowing Program • Access to the UofM Career Services Center • Access to job listings • Access to UofM Experience e-Recruiting Network • Career/Internship, Graduate School and Education Fairs • Resume and interview workshops • On-campus interviews Online Services • Alumni and Friends monthly E-Newsletter : The UofM Alumni Association uses E-News to inform you about what is happening at the UofM. Update your information to sign up! • Alumni Events Photo Gallery : Enjoy viewing pictures from Association events. • Order a transcript through the Registrar's Office: Click here to learn how. Association Related Benefits • Alumni Association Scholarships : $12,000 is annually awarded to children and grandchildren of Alumni Association members. First time freshmen, click here for application information. • Research, Teaching and Advising Awards for Faculty and Staff Members: $22,000 is awarded each year to distinguished researchers, teachers and advisors at the University of Memphis. • Special Events and Ceremonies: View a list of upcoming events • The University of Memphis Magazine • Memphis Alumni Association Office Support: Contact Us • Nationwide Alumni Club and Chapter Network : Join one of the many Alumni Association clubs throughout the United States! Disclaimer: The University of Memphis Alumni Association provides these discount programs as a service to our alumni; their inclusion should not be considered an endorsement of the products and services provided by these vendors. The vendors supplying the benefits herein are solely responsible for: (a) providing and administering the products and services comprising the benefits; (b) all of the information, statements and representations with respect to the benefits. The Alumni Association disavows all responsibility and liability whatsoever for any information, statements, representations, services or products provided to you with respect to the benefits. Any action you take with respect to the benefits will be at your own risk without any recourse or liability whatsoever to the Alumni association. Membership Join Now Services &amp; Benefits List of Benefits Email365 Insurance Travel New Grads Students Pouncer's Pals Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/17/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .