#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/Univ_college/human_svcs.php
Human Services - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Human Services Human Services Students in Human Services are expected to develop a philosophical orientation to the human condition; to enlarge their understanding of social structures, values and norms; to study human growth and development; and to become informed about social change and social and bureaucratic organizations. Students in Human Services will take courses from such departments as Counseling and Personnel Services, Sociology and Social Work, Psychology, Management, and Special Education. Program Summary A. General Education (35-41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. Students who have completed one year of American History in high school are exempted from the six credit-hour American Heritage General Education Program requirement; otherwise, students will have to meet the American Heritage requirement. B. Coordinated Study (51 hours) Professional Core Basic Core: (9 hours) Take each of the following courses: COUN 4611 Introduction to Counseling COUN 4621 Human Interactions SWRK 2911 Social Response to Human Need or SWRK 2910 - Introduction to Social Work Statistical Methods (3 hours) Choose one course: EDPR 4541 Fundamentals of Applied Statistical Methods PSYC 3001 Psychological Statistics SOCI 3311 Social Statistics Students must complete the General Education Math requirement before taking a Statistical Methods course. Professional Writing (3 hours) choose one course: ENGL 3601 Technical and Professional Writing ENGL 3604 Persuasive Writing MGMT 3510 Business Communication* Students must complete the General Education English Composition and Literature requirements before taking a Professional Writing course. Rehabilitation/Social Intervention (9 hours) Choose three courses: COUN 4781 Strategies for Crisis Intervention COUN 4783 Alcohol and Drug Abuse Services COUN 4901 Principles and Techniques of Rehabilitative Counseling COUN 4913 Medical land Psychological Aspects of Rehabilitation COUN 4921 Vocational Development and Occupational Information SWRK 3903 Social Work Practice I* (Prerequisite: SWRK 2911, 3901, 3902 or Instructor's Permission) SWRK 3904 Social Work Practice II* (Prerequisite: SWRK 3903) Support Courses . Twenty-one semester hours must be taken from the following groups. Group I: Individual Development (6 hours) Choose two courses. EDPR 3302 Child &amp; Adolescent Development (Same as CSED 3302) PSYC 3101 Psychology of Personality PSYC 3102 Abnormal Psychology PSYC 3103 Child Psychology PSYC 3104 Adult Psychology PSYC 3106 Social Psychology SOCI 3701 Individual and Society SWRK 3902 Human Behavior and Social Environment* (Prerequisite: SWRK 2910, SWRK 2911, SWRK 3901 or Instructor's Permission) Group II: The Individual and the Community (9 hours) Choose three courses. ANTH 3511 Culture, Kin, and Family ANTH 4412 Neighborhood Development and Poverty ANTH 4531 Alcohol, Culture, and Biology CJUS 3152 Drug Addiction and Alcoholism CJUS 4533 Juvenile Delinquency: Theory and Process COMM 4373 Interracial Communication HIST 4831 History of American Family PSYC 3507 Alcohol, Drugs, and Behavior (Prerequisite: PSYC 1030 &amp; 3102) SOCI 3432 Sociology of Gender SOCI 3501 Sociology of Deviant Behavior SOCI 3831 Marriage and the Family SOCI 4923 Social Institutions and the Life Cycle SOCI 4420 Racial Inequality SOCI 4442 Sociology of Poverty SOCI 4460 Black and White Women in the South SOCI 4541 Sociology of Aging Group III: The Individual and the “System” (6 hours) Choose two courses. CJUS 1100 Intro/Criminal Justice CJUS 2426 Intro/Corrections in America PADM 3601 Introduction to Public Administration PADM 4221 Urban Administration PADM 4226 Introduction to Nonprofit Organizations POLS 3213 Introduction to the Study of Public Policy SOCI 3422 Racial and Ethnic Minorities SOCI 4851 Medical Sociology C. Thematic Studies (6 hours) D. Senior Project (4 hours) UNIV 4995 Senior Project (3 hrs) [Completed during the final semester] E . Electives – may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120 with a minimum of 42 upper-division hours. Possible Minors Students pursuing a B.P.S. with a concentration in Human Services may be able to complete a minor in Sociology, Psychology, or Social Work by taking a minimal number of additional classes depending on courses selected for the major. Check with your advisor or the Undergraduate Catalog regarding specific minor requirements. *Junior standing, prerequisites, or permission of instructor required. Please check the University of Memphis Undergraduate Catalog . College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .