#http://www.memphis.edu/law/programs/jd-mba.php
JD/MBA - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Programs Special Degree Programs JD/MBA JD/MA in Pol. Science MPH Fast-Track Part-time Program Certificate Programs Advocacy Business Law Health Law Tax Law Experiential Learning Experiential Learning Home Legal Clinics Externship Program Academic Journals Law Review Mental Health Law &amp; Policy Advocacy Program Moot Court Board Joining Moot Court Board In-School Competitions Travel Team Competitions Past Champions Inst. for Health Law &amp; Policy Institute Home Advisory Committee Symposium Pro Bono Opportunities Health Law Certificate Health Law Society MBA Health Law Section Legal Writing International Law Programs Home School of Law Programs JD/MBA JD/MBA PROGRAM The School of Law and the College of Business and Economics offer a coordinated degree program leading to the conferral of the JD and MBA. The purpose of this joint degree program is to allow the student to study the intricacies of modern law and management as a coordinated educational effort. Students who are contemplating a career as a lawyer specializing in business issues and want to acquire the skills and perspective of the business manager will find the JD/MBA especially helpful. An additional benefit of the joint program is that it offers the student the ability to complete both the JD and MBA in considerably less time than required to complete each degree separately. Admission An applicant must submit separate applications and be independently accepted to both the JD and MBA programs. A student is encouraged to apply to both programs at the same time. A law student must begin the MBA program before beginning the third year of law school course work. An MBA student must begin law school before completing one half of the course work in the MBA program. This program is designed for students who wish to complete both degrees simultaneously. Curriculum Students are expected to work toward both degrees concurrently. As part of the cooperative nature of the JD/MBA program, the College of Business and Economics and the School of Law have agreed to accept course work from each college toward their specific degrees. Benefits The School of Law will award credit toward the JD degree for nine hours of approved Core Curriculum course work with a grade of B or better from the MBA program. Grades in these MBA courses transfer to the School of Law on a Pass/No Grade basis. Grades in MBA courses are not used to determine academic standing or class rank in the School of Law. These nine credit hours count for a portion of the thirty-five JD elective hours. The College of Business and Economics will award credit toward the MBA degree for nine credit hours from approved courses offered by the School of Law. The student must earn a C+ or better on the law classes used for the MBA. The law classes will not be used towards computing the MBA grade point average; however, no more than two C's may count towards the MBA portion of the joint degree program. These nine credit hours count for the three elective hours and six required hours of the MBA degree. The decision on which six required hours are substituted is at the discretion of the director of the MBA program. MBA Classes Substituted for JD Classes For JD/MBA students, the law school will accept up to 9 credits from the following list of courses offered by the MBA program: ACCT 7080: Financial and Managerial Accounting for Managers. (3) ECON 7100: Economics for the Global Executive. (3) MIS 7650: Information Systems in the Global Enterprise. (3) FIR 7155: Global Financial Management. (3) SCMS 7313: Global Operations Management. (3) SCMS 7110: Quantitative Tools for Managers. (3) MKTG 7140: Global Strategic Marketing. (3) MGMT 7160: Global Strategic Management. (3) These courses will replace electives hours otherwise required in the Law School curriculum. Only classes taken live (i.e. not online) will be awarded transfer credit. JD Classes Substituted for MBA Classes For JD/MBA students, the director of the MBA program will have the discretion to approve course substitutions of up to 9 credits from the following list of courses offered by the law school: Administrative Law (311) Antitrust (318) Arbitration/Labor (315) Banking Law (385) Bankruptcy Reorganization Seminar (442) Business Organizations I (211) Business Organizations II (319) Commercial Law (700) Commercial Paper (323) Comparative Law Seminar (441) Corporate Finance (384) Corporate Tax (334) Debtor-Creditor Relations (327) Employment &amp; Labor Law Seminar (443) Environmental Law (328) Environmental Law Seminar (438) Health Care Insurance &amp; Regulation Seminar (434) Health Law (336) Health Law Organization, Regulation, and Finance (302) Immigration Law (337) Insurance Law (339) International Business Transactions (399) International Economic Law (397) International Finance (338) International Law (340) Labor Law (343) Labor Relations (343) Land Use Planning (344) Mergers &amp; Acquisitions (301) Non-Profit Organizations (370) Partnership Tax (352) Problems in Bankruptcy (354) Realty Transactions (358) Sales (359) Securities Regulations (361) Sports Law (372) Transnational Legal Problems (365) Unfair Trade Practices (366) To facilitate customization, students are encouraged to consult with the director of the MBA program to add to this list in order to complement their desired course plan. Program Sequence Students in the coordinated JD/MBA program may schedule their course work in the joint program to suit their educational objectives, subject to the restrictions listed below: A student may take only law courses while completing the first year law curriculum. A law student must begin the MBA program before beginning the third year of law school course work. An MBA student must begin law school before completing one half of the course work in the MBA program. Important note about cost The Tennessee Board of Regents charges a student in a joint degree program the higher tuition for all credits earned in either degree. Since law school tuition is higher than graduate business school tuition, students in the joint degree are charged law school tuition rates for course credit in both law school and business school even when a student only takes business school courses in a semester. Contact Information Before Entrance to JD: Sue Ann McClellan, Ed.D. Assistant Dean for Law Admissions, Recruiting and Scholarships University of Memphis, Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law Phone: (901) 678-5403 smcclell@memphis.edu Meredith Aden, J.D., LL.M. Assistant Dean for Law Student Affairs University of Memphis, Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law Phone: (901) 678-3441 maden@memphis.edu Before Entrance to MBA: Ms. Marja Martin MBA Academic Advisor University of Memphis Fogelman College of Business and Economics Phone: (901) 678-3656 mnmartin@memphis.edu Programs Special Degree Programs JD/MBA JD/MA in Pol. Science MPH Fast-Track Part-time Program Certificate Programs Advocacy Business Law Health Law Tax Law Experiential Learning Experiential Learning Home Legal Clinics Externship Program Academic Journals Law Review Mental Health Law &amp; Policy Advocacy Program Moot Court Board Joining Moot Court Board In-School Competitions Travel Team Competitions Past Champions Inst. for Health Law &amp; Policy Institute Home Advisory Committee Symposium Pro Bono Opportunities Health Law Certificate Health Law Society MBA Health Law Section Legal Writing International Law Programs Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .