#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/phil.php
Philosophy - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Philosophy Philosophy Stephan Blatti Associate Professor, Interim Chair 127 Clement Hall 901.678.4289 MARY BETH MADER, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Admissions TIM ROCHE, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies E-mail: philosophy@memphis.edu I. The Department of Philosophy offers graduate programs leading to the Master of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy degrees with a major in Philosophy. The master’s program is designed to provide comprehensive training in philosophy for students seeking work beyond the bachelor’s level, whether for self-enrichment, background for other areas, or in preparation for doctoral work. The doctoral program provides students with the broad background necessary for effective teaching as well as the specialized research skills required for a career in philosophy at the college or university level. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MA Degree Program Program objectives are: (1) development of expertise in the discipline to teach introductory courses; (2) ability to write a research paper on a philosophical topic for formal presentation; and (3) ability to demonstrate knowledge and skills for advanced study. A. Program Admission The Philosophy Department admits students for the fall semester of each academic year. Information and application forms can be found on the department web site. Applications received after January 5 cannot be guaranteed consideration for an assistantship for the upcoming academic year. B. Program Prerequisites A bachelor’s degree from a recognized college or university. Official transcripts should be sent to the Office of Graduate Admissions. A minimum of a 2.5 quality point average on a scale of 4.0. Students with less than a 2.5 quality point average may, on occasion, be admitted. An acceptable score on the general test of the Graduate Record Examination. At least 18 semester hours in undergraduate philosophy courses including the following courses or their equivalent: introduction to philosophy, ethics, elementary logic, history of ancient philosophy, and history of modern philosophy. Students who lack one or more of these courses may be admitted to the program only on the condition that they take the appropriate course as soon as possible. Three letters of recommendation from people qualified to judge the student’s ability to undertake graduate work. A 10-20 page writing sample and a 1-2–page statement of purpose should be submitted to the Coordinator of Graduate Admissions in Philosophy. C. Program Requirements Thirty to thirty-three hours of class work, 24 of which must be at the 7000 level or above. Students who write a thesis are required to take 30 hours, 3 of which are credit for the thesis. Students who do not write a thesis are required to take 33 hours. Students who elect to write a thesis should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write. Students with approved collateral areas may take up to six hours outside the department if they are writing a thesis or nine hours if they are not. A written comprehensive examination covering the history of philosophy. III. PhD Degree Program Program objectives are: (1) development of expertise in the subject matter to teach a variety of undergraduate courses in area of specialization; (2) development of ability to produce original research papers of sufficient quality for presentation at professional meetings and conferences and publication in professional journals, in addition to ability to impart research skills to students at all levels; (3) ability to contribute to philosophical discussions across the subdivisions of the field; and (4) preparation to assume the role of a philosophy faculty member. A. Program Admission The Philosophy Department admits students for the fall semester of each academic year. Information and application forms can be found on the department web site. Applications received after January 5 cannot be guaranteed consideration for an assistantship for the upcoming academic year. Fulfillment of university requirements for admission to the Graduate School, including a score on the GRE acceptable to the department. The equivalent of the BA degree, usually with a major in philosophy. This must include at least the following courses or their equivalents: intermediate logic, survey of ancient philosophy, survey of modern philosophy, and ethics. Students lacking one or more of these courses may be admitted to the program provisionally, on the condition that they make up the missing course work as soon as possible (graduate credit will not be granted for make-up work). Three letters of recommendation, to be submitted by persons competent to judge the prospective student’s ability to undertake graduate work. (These letters are to be sent directly from the referee to the department’s coordinator of graduate admissions). Transcripts of prior academic work. Official copies should be sent to the Office of Graduate Admissions. A minimum GPA of 3.00 (on a scale of 4.00) will be expected. A 10-20 page writing sample and a 1-2–page statement of purpose should be submitted to the Coordinator of Graduate Admissions in Philosophy. B. Retention Requirements A student will be retained continuously in the program until completion of the degree providing the following conditions are met: All students will be required to maintain a GPA of at least 3.5. Should the student’s GPA fall below that mark, a period of one semester will be allowed to correct the deficiency. At the discretion of the chair and the coordinator of graduate studies, this period may be extended one additional semester. Students will be expected to demonstrate satisfactory progress in fulfilling the graduation requirements outlined below. C. Graduation Requirements General Requirements A minimum of 72 hours of graduate credit beyond the bachelor’s degree is required. At least 60 hours credit must be at the 7000 level or higher. At most 18 hours of graduate work may be transferred from graduate work elsewhere and applied towards the 72 hours needed for the PhD. Only graduate hours that were not used for a previous graduate degree, that relate in content to the graduate program, and that do not exceed university time restrictions can be transferred. For students who have attained a master’s degree, a minimum of 42 hours of graduate credit is required beyond that master’s degree. At least 36 hours of graduate credit must be at the 7000 level or higher. More hours may be required at the discretion of the department’s advisory committee. No more than 18 credit hours of dissertation (PHIL 9000) will count towards satisfying the total number of graduate hours required for the PhD. A minimum of 6 hours of dissertation is required for the PhD. Residency Requirements: At least 24 credit hours must be earned while the student is in continuous residence in the program. Distribution Requirements Core Requirements—Students must take a core of twelve hours in major figures in the history of philosophy (at least three in ancient and three in modern); six hours in theoretical philosophy (three hours in Continental Philosophy and three hours in Analytic Philosophy); and six hours in practical philosophy (three in Social and Political Philosophy; and three in Ethics). Additional Requirements—Students must take the Proseminar, normally during the first year of graduate work. At least one course must be a systematic study of a major figure. At least two courses must be in the analytic tradition and two in the continental tradition; these will normally be courses in the twenty-four hour core. Examination Requirements: Comprehensive Examinations—The Comprehensive Examinations must be taken and passed no later than the student's fourth semester in the program. There are two parts to the examination, one in the history of ancient philosophy and one in the history of modern philosophy. Each part consists in a four-hour written exam. A general reading list is provided for each area. Only students who pass both parts of the comprehensive examination may continue work for the PhD. NOTE: It is expected that the doctoral comprehensive examination will be coordinated with the master’s comprehensive examination, so that those whose scores fail to qualify them for advanced doctoral study but are sufficient for the master’s degree may then complete the requirements for a terminal master’s degree. Language Requirements: Students must demonstrate sufficient ability to translate philosophical texts by sitting for a two-hour translation examination in two of the following languages: French, German, Classical Greek, Latin. Other languages may be substituted if they are shown to be relevant to the student’s course of study. Dissertation Requirements Dissertation Committee—The student must select a dissertation director. The coordinator of graduate studies in consultation with the graduate faculty will select three additional readers. Dissertation Proposal Defense—The student will submit a proposal for the dissertation to the committee and defend the proposal before the graduate faculty. This defense will normally occur before the end of the sixth semester. Dissertation Defense—The dissertation committee will schedule a defense of the completed dissertation in coordination with the chair and the coordinator of graduate studies. Notice will be given, copies of the dissertation made available, and a public oral defense of the dissertation will be held. Upon approval of the dissertation committee and faculty, the dissertation will be submitted to the Graduate School and the degree awarded. Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .