#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/undergraduate/
Undergraduate - Social Work - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Social Work About Undergraduate Graduate People Research Resources Institute Undergraduate About the Bachelor of Arts in Social Work Handbook Program Outcomes School Social Work Licensure Program DCS Tuition Assistance &amp; Certification Programs FAQs Become a Social Work Major Brochure Program Requirements Information Form Academics Degree Planning Sheet Course Sequence Semester Schedules Academic Advising Humanities Requirement Field Field Handbook Field Agencies Field Forms Field Powerpoint Phi Alpha Honor Society Student Social Work Organization (SSWO) UofM Undergraduate Catalog Access UofM Appointment Plus Virtual Career Center Home Social Work Undergraduate Bachelor of Arts in Social Work BA SOCIAL WORK PROGRAM The main goal of the baccalaureate social work program is to prepare students for entry level generalist practice. A secondary goal is to provide a strong foundation for students who wish to pursue social work education at the graduate level. Social service and life experiences may not be substituted for any social work course. The social work program is accredited by the Council on Social Work Education. Program objectives for a B.A. in Social Work are: a) apply critical thinking skills within the context of professional social work practice; (b) understand the value base of the profession and its ethical standards and principles, and practice accordingly; (c) practice without discrimination to needs of diverse clientele; (d) apply strategies of advocacy and social change that advance social and economic justice. Are You Interested in a Career in Child Welfare? The Department of Children's Services offers two programs to undergraduate social work students: Tuition Assistance Provides financial support to undergraduate-level social work majors who are committed to working with the children and families served by DCS upon completion of their Bachelor of Social Work/Bachelor of Science in Social Work (BSW/BSSW) degree. Learn more or c lick here to view the Invitation to Apply for the Title IV-E Tuition Assistance Program, or visit with DCS representatives on October 28-29, 2015 on campus. Child Welfare Certificate Students who are interested in child welfare, but do not want to pursue the stipend program, can opt to receive a Child Welfare Certificate. Students interested in the Child Welfare Certificate will be required to take SWRK 4934 (Child Welfare I) and SWRK 4935 (Child Welfare II). In addition, they will complete their field placement in a child welfare setting. Although completing the field placement with DCS is an option, employment with DCS is not guaranteed (DCS is contractually obligated to provide placements for their stipend students before offering additional placements to non-stipend students). The Department of Social Work has a clinical affiliation with a private child welfare agency, which could also serve as a field placement option for students seeking certification. Learn more. Student Success Seminar Materials Success PowerPoint Career PowerPoint Lambuth Social Work Society: Organization for University of Memphis Lambuth Campus Students The Department of Social Work is happy to announce that through the efforts of our engaged students, the UofM Lambuth Campus is now home to the Lambuth Social Work Society! Social work majors and interested students are welcomed to join. Please visit the Society website or facebook page to get involved. Undergraduate About the Bachelor of Arts in Social Work Handbook Program Outcomes School Social Work Licensure Program DCS Tuition Assistance &amp; Certification Programs FAQs Become a Social Work Major Brochure Program Requirements Information Form Academics Degree Planning Sheet Course Sequence Semester Schedules Academic Advising Humanities Requirement Field Field Handbook Field Agencies Field Forms Field Powerpoint Phi Alpha Honor Society Student Social Work Organization (SSWO) UofM Undergraduate Catalog Access UofM Appointment Plus Virtual Career Center Why Study Social Work? The study of social work prepares you for a career in a strong growth area News Stay connected with current and pressing social work information to students, staff, faculty, and field instructors. SUAPP The Department of Social Work is a part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy. Contact Us Main office and location information. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/28/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .