#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/admissions/other_adm.php
Other Admission Regulations - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Admissions Information Residency Classification Admission to Masters Degree Programs Admission to Doctoral Degree Programs Admission to Education Specialist Program Admission of International Students Readmission Requirements Other Admission Regulations Miscellaneous Information Home Graduate Catalog Admissions Other Admission Regulations Other Admission Regulations Once accepted into a degree program, a student is expected to enroll every semester thereafter (excluding summer sessions) and make satisfactory progress toward the degree. A student who does not enroll for one Fall or Spring semester must apply for readmission. Submission of an application for readmission does not ensure acceptance. An application for readmission may be rejected or additional requirements may be imposed on the student. A readmitted student must follow the rules, prerequisites, and degree requirements listed in the most current Graduate Bulletin. Continuous Enrollment Students writing a thesis or dissertation or engaged in a culminating or capstone project must enroll on a continuous basis (Fall and Spring) until the thesis, dissertation, or project is complete. Most programs require at least one culminating experience course; see specific program requirements for details. A student must be enrolled for at least 1 hour each Fall and Spring semester until the thesis, dissertation, or project is complete. A student must be enrolled in the Summer semester if the thesis, dissertation, or project will be completed then. Failure to so register will result in the student being charged tuition for each semester he or she did not enroll. The only exception to this policy is if the student's major professor is on leave or otherwise unavailable. In such cases the approval of the appropriate college director and the Vice Provost for Graduate Program is required. In the case of serious medical circumstances, students may request a leave of absence, subject to the approval of the program graduate coordinator, the college director of graduate studies, and the Vice Provost for Graduate Programs. Retroactive approval will not be granted. A leave of absence does not extend time limit to degree. Admission to Non-Degree Status Combination Senior: An undergraduate senior student may earn up to 12 hours of graduate credit while enrolled on a Combination Senior/Graduate Non-Degree basis. The student must have a total cumulative GPA of at least 3.25 and must have filed with his or her Graduate School Academic Advisor a plan for completing the bachelor's degree within two semesters. Eligible students may enroll concurrently in undergraduate and select graduate courses. Approval to register for graduate credit does not imply approval for admission into a graduate program at the University or that the credit earned will be accepted towards a graduate degree. After the bachelor's degree is awarded, a Combination Senior/Graduate Non-Degree student must make formal application in order to be admitted to a graduate degree program. Courses taken for graduate credit may not be used for both the baccalaureate and graduate degree. Combination seniors are not eligible for graduate assistantships. Graduate Non-Degree: This classification is for domestic students who wish to enroll in graduate courses but who do not wish to pursue a graduate degree at the University or whose applications are incomplete. Graduate non-degree applicants must show proof of having earned a baccalaureate degree at the time of application. At the end of the first semester of course work, the Graduate Non-Degree student may be required to furnish an official transcript showing at minimum a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university. Academic units may restrict non-degree students to designated courses. Graduate Non-Degree students who decide to matriculate for a degree must make application to the Graduate School and must meet all admissions requirements. Master's students in programs requiring 36 credit hours or fewer are limited to 12 credit hours while in non-degree status. Students in degree programs requiring more than 36 hours must take at least 2/3 of the credit hours after acceptance into the program. Students should note that some academic units count coursework toward a degree only after admission or have more restrictive policies regarding the number of non-degree hours that count toward the degree. Before registering for a second semester of graduate level coursework, the non-degree student is required to sign a release agreeing that additional coursework will not apply to degree programs. Non-degree students must maintain a 3.00 GPA in graduate courses in order to re-enroll and are not eligible for graduate assistantships. Admissions Information Residency Classification Admission to Masters Degree Programs Admission to Doctoral Degree Programs Admission to Education Specialist Program Admission of International Students Readmission Requirements Other Admission Regulations Miscellaneous Information Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .