#http://www.memphis.edu/professional/career/
Career Corner - PDC - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center Welcome Programs Internships Career Coaching Success Stories Events FCBE Community Partners Media Suits For Success Complete Professional Program Dining Etiquette Fogelman Fit Fogelman Serves Professionalism First! Toastmasters Other Programs Accounting Careers of Tomorrow Against All Odds Luncheon Futures in Finance Moving into Management Technology Careers In Business Women in Action Students 4Cs Lecture Series General Information Know Good—Do Good—Thrive Peer Power Success Stories Career Planning Contact Us Home PDC Career Coaching Career Coaching Use the links below to help you develop your professional image for the future. Invest in yourself. Be ready for upcoming career opportunities. The Fogelman College of Business and Economics offers a number of programs and resources to help you become the best you can be. Take advantage of these opportunities to help you prepare for a successful future. Developing Your Résumé It’s important to begin your career journey with the development of a professional résumé. This key document is the first impression you make with an employer! Remember, you never get a second chance to make a first impression so make your résumé stand out for the right reasons! To help you make the right impression, two résumé formats have been developed for your use. When you click on the following links, you will find a sample resume with relevant student information as well as an annotated version to help you understand why some of the features are important for your résumé. First, download the resume checklist to get started. Review these two types of résumés carefully—while everyone has unique information and experiences, employers usually spend about 30 seconds reviewing job candidate résumés—your information that makes you a competitive candidate must be easy for the employer to read and review. In addition, your résumé speaks to your ability to communicate—one of the top five most demanded skills in today’s job market. Take time to invest in your future by developing a professional résumé. As you review the two résumé formats, consider your experience and your career development preparation. Perhaps ask yourself the following question: what type of experience do I currently have that would impress an employer? Be sure to use the downloadable templates at the bottom of this page to make this process easy for you! Is most of my experience related to my academic and campus or community involvement? If so, Version A might work best for you . Sample Version A— click here to learn more about this résumé format Is most of my experience related to my work history and skills I’ve gained during full-time or significant work experience? If so, then Version B might work best for you . Sample Version B— click here to learn more about this résumé format Downloadable Templates To use Version A or Version B for your own résumé, download the selected version onto your desktop. Delete the sample name and information listed and replace with your information. Click here for Version A template Click here for Version B template Important Points To Remember Remember to proof carefully—check your dates, names, spelling carefully. Identify your degree and major information and be sure to list your education properly. Use the FCBE Résumé Planner and Résumé Packet to assist you in preparing your career-related content. Be sure to see the downloadable templates above and review the list of action verbs needed to make your résumé shine! For submission to employers, be sure your resume file is LAST NAME, FIRST NAME RESUME to better assist employers to find you. Once complete, please upload your resume to the Fogelman Internship Network (FIN ). Community Partners Media Suits For Success Complete Professional Program Dining Etiquette Fogelman Fit Fogelman Serves Professionalism First! Toastmasters Other Programs Accounting Careers of Tomorrow Against All Odds Luncheon Futures in Finance Moving into Management Technology Careers In Business Women in Action Students 4Cs Lecture Series General Information Know Good—Do Good—Thrive Peer Power Success Stories Career Planning Contact Us Community Partners For employers looking to hire professional and polished interns, information on Professional Development, and Suits for Success Student Engagement For students looking to get invovled in Peer Power, The Complete Professional Program, and Student Organizations Student Success Stories Learn more about your peers and their successes with our program! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/17/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .