#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/about/contact.php
Contact Us - FCBE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty &amp; Staff Research News About FCBE Dean's Message Mission Statement Facts &amp; Figures General Information A to Z List Driving Directions FAQs Job Announcements Social Media Policy Faculty and Staff Student Contact Us Home FCBE About FCBE Contact Us This page is designed to help you find answers to the most frequently asked questions about Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics. Please make use of the links below, they are your fastest pathways to a helpful answer. Legend Contacting Fogelman College by Mail or Phone Contacting Fogelman College by E-mail Applying to Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics Course Information/General Catalog Visiting The University of Memphis Need to Contact Fogelman College by Mail or Phone? Top of Page For general inquiries, write to: Individual's Name (optional) Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics, The University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152 For general phone inquiries, call: 901.678.2432 Need to Contact Fogelman College by E-mail? Top of Page If your questions do not pertain directly to the main college web page, please direct them to the relevant department on campus. You can find e-mail contact information by visiting a department or unit's web site. To find a department or unit specific web site, use our Departments Web Page or our search engines. Interested in Applying to Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics? Top of Page If you want to apply to Fogelman College Of Business &amp; Economics, or if you have questions about admissions requirements, fees, financial aid, or the transfer process, please visit our Applying to The University of Memphis page, or contact the following resources directly: Undergraduate Student Services Office : Ms. Shelley Bennett, Director Email: fcbeadvising@memphis.edu Phone: 901.678.2855 Fax: 901.678.4344 114 Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Graduate Programs Office : Fax: 901.678.4705 Dr. Balaji Krishnan, Director Email: krishnan@memphis.edu Phone: 901.678.2786 Marja Martin, Professional and Online MBA Programs Email: mnmartin@memphis.edu Phone: 901.678.3405 Anna Myers, International MBA Program and CD-MBA Email: ammyers@memphis.edu Phone: 901.678.3442 The University of Memphis Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics 101 Fogelman College Admin. Bldg. Memphis, TN 38152-3120 EMBA Programs Office : Email: emba@memphis.edu Phone: 901.678.4866 Mary Ann Dawson, Manager, Executive MBA Programs Email: mdawson@memphis.edu Phone: 901.678.5280 Fax: 901.678.5433 357 Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Doctoral Program Office : Jacqueline Woodall, Admissions and Retention Coordinator Email: fcbephd@memphis.edu Phone: 901.678.5250 Fax: 901.678.3759 426 Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 You can also find resources for international students online. Need Course Information or a General Catalog? Top of Page The General Catalog lists courses and curricula for all academic departments, units, groups, and interdisciplinary and special studies programs offering undergraduate and graduate degrees. It also includes extensive information on applications and admissions, degree requirements, financial aid, and student services. You can explore the online catalog Planning to Visit The University Of Memphis? Top of Page The Visitor Services web site contains information about tours, traveling to campus, and parking near campus. A campus map and campus tours are also available. Street Address: 3675 Central Avenue Memphis, TN 38152-3120 About FCBE Dean's Message Mission Statement Facts &amp; Figures General Information A to Z List Driving Directions FAQs Job Announcements Social Media Policy Faculty and Staff Student Contact Us Apply to our Undergraduate Programs &gt; Enroll at the university and engage yourself with our six different departments, student enrichment, and more. Apply to our Masters Programs &gt; Earn your degree with one of our six MBA tracks or with one of our four specialized Masters programs! Apply to our Doctoral Programs &gt; Interested in a Ph.D.? Start the journey towards your Ph.D. here! Contact Us &gt; Have questions? Call or email today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/19/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .