#http://www.memphis.edu/mscm/publications/
Faculty Publications - MSCM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Marketing &amp; Supply Chain Management Welcome Programs Students Faculty PhD Students Publications FCBE Welcome Programs Students Faculty MKTG Faculty SCM Faculty PhD Students Publications Home MSCM Publications Faculty Publications 2014 Publications Billing, Tejinder K., Rabi S. Bhagat, Emin Babakus , B.N. Srivastava, and Mansoo Shin (2014), “Work–Family Conflict in Four National Contexts: A Closer Look at the Role of Individualism–Collectivism,” International Journal of Cross Cultural Management, 14 (2), 139–159. Yavas, Ugur, Emin Babakus , George D. Deitz , and Subhash Jha (2014), "Correlates of Customer Loyalty to Financial Institutions: A Case Study," Journal of Consumer Marketing, 31 (3), 218–227. Westbrook, Kevin W., Emin Babakus , and Cori C. Grant (2014), “Measuring Patient-Perceived Hospital Service Quality: Validity and Managerial Usefulness of HCAHPS Scales,” Health Marketing Quarterly, 31 (2), 97-114. Yavas, Ugur, Osman M. Karatepe and Emin Babakus (2014), “Exploring the Role of Organisational and Personal Resources in Explaining Nurse Performance in Public Hospitals in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus,” Journal of Health Management, 16 (1), 1-12 (lead article). Collier, Joel E., Daniel L. Sherrell, Emin Babakus , and Alisha B. Horky (2014), “Understanding the Differences of Public and Private Self-Service Technology,” Journal of Services Marketing, 28 (1), 60-70. Billing, Tejinder K., Rabi S. Bhagat, Emin Babakus , Balaji Krishnan , David L. Ford Jr., B. N. Srivastava, Ujvala Rajadhyaksha, Mannsoo Shin, Ben Kuo, Catherine Kwantes Bernadette Setiadi, and Aizzat Mohd. Nasurdin (2014), “Work-Family Conflict and Psychological Strain: The Moderating Role of Decision Latitude in Five National Contexts,” Applied Psychology: An International Review, 63 (1), 62-95. Nejad, Mohammad G., Daniel L. Sherrell and Emin Babakus (2014), “Influentials and Influence Mechanisms in New Product Diffusion: An Integrative Review,” Journal of Marketing Theory and Practice, 22 (2), 187–209. Mangold, W. Glynn, Emin Babakus , Katherine T. Smith (2014), “Trust and the Online Conversation: The Case of Online Reviews,” International Journal of Internet Marketing and Advertising, 8 (2), 143-160. Sarkar, Aditi, M. S. Balaji and Balaji Krishnan (2014), “How Customers Cope with Service Failure? A Study of Brand Reputation and Customer Satisfaction.” Journal of Business Research. Cicala, John E., Alan J. Bush, Daniel L. Sherrell , and George D. Deitz (2014), “Does Transparency Influence the Ethical Behavior of Salespeople?” Journal of Business Research, 67 (9), 1787-1795. Welcome Programs Students Faculty MKTG Faculty SCM Faculty PhD Students Publications Majors &amp; Minors See how a MSCM degree can benefit you! MSCM Internship Program Want to gain “real world” work experience related to your academic studies? Look no further! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .