#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/phys.php
Physics and Materials Science - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Physics and Materials Science Physics and Materials Science JINGBIAO CUI, PhD Professor and Chair Room 216 Manning Hall 901.678.3657 jcui@memphis.edu SANJAY MISHRA, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies 901.678.3115 smishra@memphis.edu I. The Department of Physics and Materials Science offers a major in Physics for the Master of Science degree with concentrations in General Physics, Computational Physics and Materials Science. Program objectives are: (1) development of an in-depth and specialized knowledge of physical phenomena; (2) ability to successfully demonstrate analytic cognitive knowledge in physics and communications skills through close interaction with other students and the physics faculty; and (3) preparation to continue studies in a PhD program, enter a professional school, or enter the workforce as a technical professional. Graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MS Degree Program A. Program Admission Requirements For admission to the graduate program, a Bachelor’s degree in Physics or a closely related area is required; no minimum undergraduate GPA is specified. Students are also required to present, as a prerequisite, 20 semester hours of undergraduate physics courses including upper division Mechanics, Electricity, and Magnetism, and approved Mathematics courses in Calculus and Differential Equations. The GRE general test is recommended and may enhance an applicant's likelihood of admissions. The GRE subject test is not required. Students from non-English speaking countries are required to demonstrate proficiency in English via the TOEFL examination. The minimum acceptable score is 550. B. Program Requirements After meeting the general degree requirements for admission to The Graduate School, students selecting Physics as a major will be assigned to the Department Graduate Committee, which must approve and direct their course of study. Core requirements (9 credit hours)*: PHYS 7200/8200, PHYS 7386, and PHYS 7520. Satisfactory completion of an oral comprehensive exam typically given during the final thesis oral presentation. Concentration Requirements (Students may elect either a thesis or non-thesis program.) a. General Physics Concentration, thesis option (30 credit hours) (Physics Program core requirement*: 9 credit hours, Concentration requirement: 6 credit hours, Thesis: 6 credit hours, Additional courses: 9 credit hours) General Physics Concentration requirement: PHYS 7100/8100, PHYS 7300. Sufficient additional courses, including 6 semester hours in PHYS 7996, Thesis, to satisfy a minimum of 30 semester hours (9 semester hours may be in a collateral field of study with course numbers 6000 or above). These courses must be approved by the graduate advisor. 21 semester hours must be taken in courses numbered 7000 or above. The student must present a research proposal to the graduate thesis committee at the end of the first semester of his/her study for the thesis approval. The student must complete a research project, submit a written thesis describing the research, orally present and defend the thesis before a faculty committee. Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write. b. General Physics Concentration, non-thesis option (33 credit hours) (Physics Program core requirement*: 9 credit hours, Concentration requirement: 6 credit hours, Additional courses: 18 credit hours) General Physics Concentration requirement (6 credit hours): PHYS 7100/8100 and PHYS 7300. Sufficient additional courses to satisfy a minimum of 33 semester hours, in which 9 may be in a collateral field of study. These courses must be approved by the graduate advisor. 23 semester hours must be taken in courses numbered 7000 or above. Complete a survey of an area of current research in fundamental or applied physics and make an oral and written presentation based on this survey before a faculty committee. The subject of this survey must be approved by the departmental graduate committee at least one semester prior to graduation. c. Computational Physics, thesis program (30 credit hours) (Physics Program core requirement*: 9 credit hours, Concentration requirement: 6 credit hours, Thesis: 6 credit hours, Additional courses: 9 credit hours) PHYS 7385, MATH 7721 PHYS 7996 Thesis; must contain a strong computational physics component. Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write. The student must present a research proposal to the graduate thesis committee at the end of the first semester of his/her study for the thesis approval. Additional courses to be taken from the following list: CHEM 6415, COMP 7721, MATH 6391, MATH 6393, MATH 7321, MATH 7393. These courses must be approved by the graduate advisor. d. Computational Physics, non-thesis program (33 credit hours) (Physics Program requirement*: 9 credit hours, Concentration requirement: 6 credit hours, Additional courses: 18 credit hours) PHYS 7385, MATH 7721 Sufficient additional courses numbered 6000 and above, including PHYS 7100/8100 and PHYS 7300, to satisfy a minimum of 33 semester hours. These courses can be taken in a collateral field of study. CHEM 6415, COMP 7721, MATH 6391, MATH 6393, MATH 6721, MATH 7321, MATH 7393. e. Materials Science Concentration, thesis program (30 credit hours) (Physics Program requirement*: 9 credit hours, Concentration requirement: 12 credit hours, Thesis: 6 credit hours, Additional courses: 3 credit hours) Materials Science Concentration requirement: PHYS 6610, PHYS 6810, MEC 7361/8361, PHYS 7390 and PHYS 7996. Sufficient additional courses (in a collateral field of study with course numbers 6000 or above), including 6 semester hours in PHYS 7996, Thesis, to satisfy a minimum of 30 semester hours. These courses must be approved by the graduate advisor. The student must present a research proposal to the graduate thesis committee at the end of the first semester of his/her study for the thesis approval. The student must complete a research project, submit a written thesis describing the research, orally present and defend the thesis before a faculty committee. Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write. f. Materials Science Concentration, non-thesis program (33 credit hours) (Physics Program requirement*: 9 credit hours, Concentration requirement: 12 credit hours, Additional courses: 12 credit hours) Materials Science Concentration requirement: PHYS 6610, PHYS 6810, MEC 7361/8361, and PHYS 7390. Sufficient additional courses (12 credit hours in collateral field of study with course numbers 6000 or above), to satisfy a minimum of 33 semester hours. These courses must be approved by the graduate advisor. Complete a survey of an area of current research in fundamental or applied materials physics and make an oral and written presentation based on this survey before a faculty committee. The subject of this survey must be approved by the departmental graduate committee at least one semester prior to graduation. III. Dual Degree BS-MS Accelerated Program Highly motivated and talented students may pursue an undergraduate degree (B.S.) in Physics followed by a graduate (M.S.) in Physics in a special five-year program. This option requires serious commitment, careful planning with the student’s advisor, and summer research work leading toward a Master’s thesis. Carefully tailored course of study allow students in this program to complete their B.S. degree while they also begin the coursework towards their M.S. Students interested in pursuing this option should contact both the undergraduate and graduate advisors in the Department of Physics and Materials Science early in their undergraduate career. To apply, students should have a minimum 3.25 grade point average, and must submit two reference letters and a copy of their transcripts to the Chair of the Graduate Committee of the Department. Exceptions to the minimum GPA will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Each applicant will complete an interview with the graduate coordinator in the Department of Physics and Materials Science. Students must apply to the Graduate School for “combination senior” status, which allows them to take graduate courses in Physics. To continue in the program past the B.S., students must apply for admission into the Graduate School. Up to 9 hours of graduate course work may be applied to both the undergraduate and graduate programs. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .