#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/graduate/
Graduate - Social Work - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Social Work About Undergraduate Graduate People Research Resources Institute Graduate About the MSW Program Brochure Program &amp; Study Plans Prospective MSW Students MSW Information Sessions Request Information Form Program Eligibility How to Apply &amp; Deadlines FAQs Current Students Student Handbook Semester Schedules MSW School Social Work Licensure Program Requirements Phi Alpha Honor Society Graduate Organization of Social Work (GO!SW) Field Field Handbook Field Agencies Forms Field Powerpoint Funding UofM Graduate Catalog Home Social Work Graduate Master of Social Work Program Accredited by the Council on Social Work Education, the University of Memphis offers two concentrations: Advanced Practice with Children, Youth, &amp; Families; and Advanced Practice with Adults &amp; Families, with flexible study options to accommodate full and part-time, as well as distance learning, students in the Mid-South. MSW Program Mission The mission of the Master of Social Work program is to educate advanced professional social workers for practice with at-risk populations, particularly children and families. The Master of Social Work program is dedicated to (a) educating social workers with knowledge, values, and skills for evidence-based practice, (b) advancing the knowledge base of the social work profession and (c) providing regional leadership in the development and implementation of policies, programs and services for at-risk populations. Fall 2015 LCSW Exam Prep Announcement and Training Schedule This LCSW Exam Preparation training will be conducted by nationally recognized trainers, Dr. Susan Elswick, LCSW, LSSW and Laura Taylor, LCSW. Registration is open to alumni, faculty, field instructors, students, and the general public. Must register by September 25th. Prospective Students If you are interested in attending the University of Memphis MSW Program, we have a number of ways you can learn more about us: Attend an Information Session. Fall dates are listed below. Use the links to the left to learn About the MSW Program and How to Apply , or Submit an Information Form . Contact us at socialworkinfo@memphis.edu or (901) 678-3156 to speak with MSW Admissions. MSW Information Sessions The Department of Social Work presents Information Sessions each fall and spring semester. Individuals interested in pursuing a Master's Degree in Social Work are encouraged to attend an On Campus or Online session to learn about the career field, academic tracks, and internship placements. Click here to register for one of the following Information Sessions: Fall 2015 MSW Information Sessions On Campus Sessions (McCord 207): Wednesday, September 16th, 5:30-7:00 pm Tuesday, October 20th, 5:30-7:00 pm Monday, November 9th, 5:30-7:00 pm Online Sessions: Wednesday, September 16th, 12:00-1:00 pm Tuesday, October 13th, 1:00-2:00 pm Tuesday, November 10th, 12:00-1:00 pm Spring 2016 MSW Information Sessions On Campus Sessions (McCord 207): Thursday, January 21st, 5:30-7:00 pm Tuesday, February 9th, 5:30-7:00 pm Wednesday, March 16, 5:30-7:00 pm Monday, April 11th, 5:30-7:00 pm Tuesday, May 10th, 5:30-7:00 pm Graduate About the MSW Program Brochure Program &amp; Study Plans Prospective MSW Students MSW Information Sessions Request Information Form Program Eligibility How to Apply &amp; Deadlines FAQs Current Students Student Handbook Semester Schedules MSW School Social Work Licensure Program Requirements Phi Alpha Honor Society Graduate Organization of Social Work (GO!SW) Field Field Handbook Field Agencies Forms Field Powerpoint Funding UofM Graduate Catalog Why Study Social Work? The study of social work prepares you for a career in a strong growth area News Stay connected with current and pressing social work information to students, staff, faculty, and field instructors. SUAPP The Department of Social Work is a part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy. Contact Us Main office and location information. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .