#http://www.memphis.edu/professional/success/
Student Success Stories - PDC - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center Welcome Programs Internships Career Coaching Success Stories Events FCBE Community Partners Media Suits For Success Complete Professional Program Dining Etiquette Fogelman Fit Fogelman Serves Professionalism First! Toastmasters Other Programs Accounting Careers of Tomorrow Against All Odds Luncheon Futures in Finance Moving into Management Technology Careers In Business Women in Action Students 4Cs Lecture Series General Information Know Good—Do Good—Thrive Peer Power Success Stories Career Planning Contact Us Home PDC Success Stories Success Stories! Austin Ehrat, Junior Broker, CBRE Complete Professional Program Chairman B.B.A. Management Class of 2014 "Two years ago I walked into Dr. Kathy Tuberville's office and told her that I wanted to be involved within the college of business, but I wasn't sure what I wanted to do. Little did I know that this day would be completely change my life. Fast forward two years later and I've successfully graduated the CPP program, completed two internships, and have a handful of full-time job opportunities pending my graduation. Statistically this type of success is not supposed to happen to a first generation college student who was raised by a single mother, but because of the opportunities of this program I was afforded the chance to develop my professional skill set and set myself up for a successful professional career." Megan Miles, International Paper B.B.A. Accounting Class of 2014 "My involvement with the CPP started by accident. I attended a Business Etiquette dinner as required by my BCOMM professor, and this was where I ran into Dr. Tuberville. Little did I know, Dr. Tuberville would be hugely instrumental in my future extra-curricular achievements. With each module in the CPP, I began to develop my soft skills and understanding of the professional world, as well as fine-tune my resume and interviewing techniques. With the help of Ms. DeGutis and Ms. Brooks, I felt better equipped to take on the many challenges ahead of me. Not only did Dr. Tuberville connect me to the Experience website and an array of internship opportunities, but she introduced me to a company who would later become my future employer! Through the Accounting Careers of Tomorrow program, I was able to meet my interviewer 4 months in advance and grow a relationship with him all the way up until the interview! Thanks to Dr. Tuberville and her team, I became the most motivated, hard-working student outside of the classroom, and I have nothing but gratitude for what the CPP has done to get me where I am today!" Shelby Yardley, Baptist Memorial Hospital B.B.A. Management Class of 2014 "At the start of my first semester at FCBE in 2012, I was pregnant, had failed my sophomore year, and was desperate for guidance and support. Under the mentorship of Dr. Kathy Tuberville and Dr. Carol Danehower, I have beaten all odds and it has entirely changed my life. The opportunities that the Professional Development Center has offered me have laid the foundation for the rest of my professional career. As a young mother, I am determined to not be a statistic and to make the best life I can for my son. A semester away from graduation, I have managed to establish and maintain 4.0 Management Major GPA, am working two internships, am the Co-President of SHRM, and am on track to begin working on my MBA in January. I promote and support the Professional Development Center any chance I can because I could not have imagined an outcome as successful and drastic as mine has been without this Center." Dana Moore, Methodist LeBonheur Healthcare B.B.A. Management Class of 2014 "I recently accepted a full-time job offer as the Community Outreach Educator with LeBonheur Community Health and Well-Being. The hiring manager emphasized that my interview, preparation, and speaking abilities were "a cut above" the other prospective employees. I can only attribute this success to the skills I have obtained through The Complete Professional Program at the Fogelman College of Business and Economics." As a former student, I cannot express how grateful I am for every opportunity awarded to me during my matriculation at FCBE. I would encourage every student to take advantage of the wonderful opportunities at Fogelman. Every program, every class, every speaker made a difference, and it also made me more marketable. For more information on any of the training modules offered by the Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center, please visit room 274, call 678-4740, or email us . Community Partners Media Suits For Success Complete Professional Program Dining Etiquette Fogelman Fit Fogelman Serves Professionalism First! Toastmasters Other Programs Accounting Careers of Tomorrow Against All Odds Luncheon Futures in Finance Moving into Management Technology Careers In Business Women in Action Students 4Cs Lecture Series General Information Know Good—Do Good—Thrive Peer Power Success Stories Career Planning Contact Us Community Partners For employers looking to hire professional and polished interns, information on Professional Development, and Suits for Success Student Engagement For students looking to get invovled in Peer Power, The Complete Professional Program, and Student Organizations Student Success Stories Learn more about your peers and their successes with our program! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/17/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .