#http://www.memphis.edu/campuscard/tigerfunds.php
Tiger Funds - Campus Card - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Campus Card Your Campus Card Dining Dollars Tiger Funds Meal Plans/Flex Bucks Home Campus Card Tiger Funds Tiger Funds A Tiger Funds account works like a debit card. It is a unique money management system activated by your Campus Card that is available to all students, faculty, and staff. Log in to your account (click Your Campus Card above) to see specifics about your account, including balance and transaction history, meal plan status (if applicable), and Tiger Funds information. Once you have made a deposit into your personal Tiger Funds account, you simply present your Campus Card to pay for meals at campus dining locations or to purchase books, supplies, and personal items at the University Store. You can also use your Campus Card in copier machines and for services at the Health Center and the Bursar's Office. How does it work? It is simple to activate your Tiger Funds account. Your Campus Card is already encoded to provide access to University events and activities. When you make a minimum deposit of $10 to your personal Tiger Funds account, your Campus Card becomes your Tiger Funds card as well. Your daily transaction limit cannot exceed $500. Tiger Funds may not be used to purchase gift cards. Each time you make a purchase, your Campus Card is swiped through a card reader and the amount of the purchase is automatically deducted from the balance in your Tiger Funds account. Your remaining balance is indicated on your receipt after each transaction so you will always know how much money remains in your account. You can deposit money to your Tiger Funds account in the following ways: Online at Campus Card Online (credit card - Visa, MasterCard, Discover, American Express). Through Blackboard Card Management Centers (cash only) located in the McWherter Library, Law Library, Wilder Tower, Jones Hall Tiger Den, UC Union Food Court, V. Lane Rawlins Service Court and Bookstore, the Speech and Hearing Center, and the Gobbel Library at the Lambuth campus. In person at the Bursar's Office customer service windows, 1st floor, Wilder Tower (cash, check or credit card). Excess funds from financial aid/scholarships can also be deposited to your Tiger Funds account by completing an Authorization to Transfer Financial Aid/Scholarships to Tiger Funds form in the Bursar's Office, 115 Wilder Tower. Tiger Funds are maintained separately from Dining Dollars, meal plan accounts and Flex Bucks, which are also accessed by your Campus Card. Meal plan accounts are administered by the University's food service vendor. The policies and procedures of the meal plan accounts are those of the vendor and not those of the University of Memphis. What are the advantages of Tiger Funds? It gives you ready access to all food services locations that offer a variety of food choices, from early morning breakfasts to late night snacks. It offers you purchase privileges without cash, for the great selection of books, supplies, gifts, and personal items at the University Store. Use your Campus Card to make copies at the McWherter Library, Law Library, the Speech and Hearing Center, and the Lambuth campus Library. Account balances remain available as long as you have an active relationship with the University. Once you establish your Tiger Funds account, there is little or need to carry cash or to write checks for University meals, supplies, or services. How do I request a refund of the remaining balance on my Tiger Funds account? Refund requests from the Tiger Funds account must be submitted in person to the Bursar's Office, 115 Wilder Tower. A $5 processing fee will be deducted from the available balance in the account prior to the refund. Any amounts that are owed to the University will be deducted from the available balance in the account prior to the processing of a refund. The refund will be processed to the eRefund account through TigerXpress. If no payment profile exists in TigerXpress, a check will be mailed to the permanent address on file with the University. Tiger Funds accounts that remain inactive for an extended period of time are subject to automatic refund processing and the previous conditions apply. Did you know? Many Campus Card functions are available on the UofM app! Frequently Asked Questions Campus Card and Dining Dollars FAQs. Dining Locations Dining locations across campus and more. Vending Locations Vending machine locations across campus. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/6/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .