#http://www.memphis.edu/padm/master/mpa-admissions.php
MPA Admissions - PADM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Public and Nonprofit Administration Masters Certificates Undergraduates People Admission Masters Resources About the Masters Prerequisites Curriculum Course Plans Admissions Home PADM Masters MPA Admissions Requirements for MPA Admission Applicants for the Master of Public Administration program must satisfy all requirements for admission to the Graduate School and receive a favorable endorsement from the public administration faculty. Admissions decisions are based on undergraduate GPA, standardized examination scores (GRE, GMAT, or MAT), and additional information provided by a resume, two letters of recommendation and a personal statement of interest. The following criteria are used when considering an application: 1) Undergraduate grade point average We generally prefer applicants to have an undergraduate GPA of at least 3.0, or a GPA of 3.0 in their last 60 hours of undergraduate coursework. 2) Standardized examination score You must take the Graduate Record Examination [GRE], Graduate Management Aptitude Test [GMAT], or Miller Analogy Test [MAT]. (We also accept LSAT scores) We generally prefer applicants to have a minimum GRE Verbal score of 147 and a Quantitative score of 144. The standard exam criteria may be waived if the applicant meets appropriate professional public service experience and undergraduate performance requirements. Follow the link below for more information on the exam waiver. Standardized Examination Waiver Policy 3) Resumé documenting previous education and/or experience 4) Two References The applicant provides us with the names and e-mail addresses of two people you wish to use as references. We will contact them and request they complete an online recommendation. 5) Statement of interest This statement should articulate the applicant's experience, career goals and education objectives related to the pursuit of the MPA degree. The personal statement should be 300-600 words in length. Application Deadlines Semester Deadline Fall Admission July 1 (International Students - May 1) Spring Admission December 1 (International Students - September 15) Summer Admission May 1 (International Students - February 1) How Do I Apply? 1) Begin your online application at the Graduate School If this is your first time applying you will need to click on the First time user account creation link to create an account. Note: Once you begin your application, you can save it and come back to it at a later time to work on it some more. 2) Checklists In applying to the MPA Program, you will be sending some of your materials to the Graduate School and some of your materials directly to us. Note: Your application will not be reviewed until all of the materials are received. Checklist for Materials Sent to the Graduate School Application to the University of Memphis Graduate School Graduate School Application fee Official transcripts from all institutions of higher education attended Official GRE scores Checklist for Materials sent to the MPA Program Personal statement of 300-600 words explaining why you wish to study public administration and outlining your career goals. A current resume The names and e-mail addresses of two people you wish to use as references. Note : All of the MPA Program materials can be sent to mpa@memphis.edu Questions about the application process? If you have any questions about the application process, please contact our administrative assistant, Rebecca Horowitz at 901-678-3360 e-mail rhrowitz@memphis.edu Masters Resources About the Masters Prerequisites Curriculum Course Plans Admissions It's Time to GO Public! Get the knowledge and skills you need to face today's challenges and tomorrow's opportunities. Contact Us Main office contact and location. Partners/Accredited by NASPAA Information regarding our NASPAA accreditation and partners. SUAPP Public and Nonprofit Administration is a part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .