#http://www.memphis.edu/csd/programs/slpadmissions.php
Admissions - School of Communication Sciences and Disorders - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About Programs People Research Student Organizations Resources News Programs MA in SLP Admissions Curriculum Non-CSD Coursework Clinical Education Additional Information Apply Now AuD in Audiology Admissions Curriculum Non-CSD Coursework Clinical Education Additional Information Apply Now PhD in CSD Admissions Apply Now Home School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Programs Admissions Admissions The Master of Arts (M.A.) degree program in Speech-Language Pathology requires a two-year commitment (including the interim summer) and a minimum of 60 semester hours of credit. In addition, students must meet all academic and clinical requirements specified by the American Speech-Language Hearing Association for the Certificate of Clinical Competence in Speech-Language Pathology. We strongly encourage students who have degrees in other areas to apply to the program: No prerequisite courses are required before admission and your program will only be extended by a semester (the second summer). We have no set thresholds for GRE or GPA scores. For applicants who take the GRE more than once, we consider the highest set of scores. The average GRE scores for students most recently accepted in the program were 309 (verbal: 156, quantitative: 153) and the average GPA score (all four years of the undergraduate degree) was 3.83 (4 point scale). For more information about our program statistics locate the University of Memphis listing at . Coursework in the area of Communication Sciences and Disorders is not required prior to admission to the MA program, but we do require non-CSD coursework to have been completed prior to graduation. In the CSDCAS portal, this coursework is listed as "prerequisites" so that we can track what undergraduate coursework you have, but these courses are not required for admission. If you have not met these requirements in your undergraduate program, you will be required to complete them during your graduate program. Depending on how many of these requirements have not been met, your graduate program may be extended. You may want to consider completing this coursework prior to your first semester of graduate school. For admission to the Fall 2016 Master’s (MA) degree program in Speech-Language Pathology in the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders, students are required to submit TWO applications: one to a centralized application service and one directly to The University of Memphis. We use a centralized application known as the Communication Sciences &amp; Disorders Centralized Application Service (CSDCAS). Official GRE scores must be submitted on the CSDCAS application portal (code 1756) Official transcripts must be sent to CSDCAS Letters of recommendation and a personal statement should be uploaded to the CSDCAS portal. We also require that you complete an online application directly to The University of Memphis. Official GRE scores must be submitted directly to The University of Memphis (code 1459) Official transcripts must be sent to The University of Memphis Office of Graduate Admissions, The University of Memphis, Wilder Tower 200, Memphis, Tennessee 38152-3370. PLEASE DO NOT SEND LETTERS OF RECOMMENDATION OR PERSONAL STATEMENTS TO THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS; LETTERS OF RECOMMENDATION AND PERSONAL STATEMENTS SHOULD BE UPLOADED DIRECTLY THROUGH THE CSDCAS PORTAL. Please note that admission for the Master of Arts program in SLP occurs only in the fall term each year. All application materials should be received and verified by February 1st for the following Fall admissions class. Apply Now For additional information contact: Walter Manning, PhD 901.678.5800 wmanning@memphis.edu If you would like to talk with a current SLP student, contact: Ashley Saunders 901.678.5800 collins2@memphis.edu TOURS Would you like to tour our facilities and meet our faculty and students? Email our Admissions Coordinator and indicate which of the following dates works best for you. All tours will begin at 10 am. We look forward to meeting you! September 18, 2015 October 9, 2015 November 20, 2015 December 11, 2015 January 15, 2016 February 12, 2016 March 4, 2016 April 8, 2016 May 27, 2016 Programs MA in SLP Admissions Curriculum Non-CSD Coursework Clinical Education Additional Information Apply Now AuD in Audiology Admissions Curriculum Non-CSD Coursework Clinical Education Additional Information Apply Now PhD in CSD Admissions Apply Now Apply Now Want to pursue a degree in Communication Sciences and Disorders? Find out how to apply. Support the School Help support the School with the funding of various initiatives. Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Learn about our in-house clinical training facility. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/28/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .