#http://www.memphis.edu/mscm/students/mktg_internship.php
MSCM Internship Program - MSCM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Marketing &amp; Supply Chain Management Welcome Programs Students Faculty PhD Students Publications FCBE Welcome Programs Students Faculty MKTG Faculty SCM Faculty PhD Students Publications Home MSCM Students MSCM Internship Program MSCM Internship Program Purpose: The purpose of the MSCM Internship Program is to provide students the opportunity to gain “real world” work experience related to their academic studies to enhance their educational experience. The program is designed with flexibility for Marketing Management and Supply Chain Management students to earn academic credits associated with their specific major or minor. The MSCM internship program allows students the opportunity to select a company internship of their choice that matches their own interest. MSCM Internship Program Goals: Following are the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics Internship Program Goals: To provide quality students with various forms of practical job experience as part of their formal educational program. To help students understand the demands of different careers. To assist the student in developing interpersonal skills, understandings, and attitudes involving relationships with other employees and supervisors. To provide students with the opportunity of combining theory and practice. To assist the student in bridging the gap from full-time student to full-time employee. To provide students with current information concerning the latest concepts, procedures and equipment used in business. To support the FCBE goals, the following are the MSCM Goals: To assist students with the implementation of the FCBE goals during their internship. To help students with the academic understanding of their internship related to their MSCM major or minor. To provide students the opportunity to gain a higher level of learning from their internship. To give the student a take-away to use in seeking employment. MSCM Internship Academic Requirements: FCBE Academic Requirements: FCBE degree seeking student Junior or Senior with at least a 2.75 GPA and 15 credit hours of upper division core classes Graduate student with at least a 3.0 GPA and 15 credit hours of coursework Students must work 150 hours to receive 3-hours of credit. The course and the internship must be taken simultaneously. No credit can be given for past experience Internship experience must be directly related to your major. MSCM Academic Requirements: Students must register for the appropriate internship according to registration procedures. The internship work experience must relate to the student’s MSCM major or minor. Students may participate in more than one internship. MSCM Internship Course Description: MKTG 4911 – The course is designed to allow students to perform work activities specifically related to Marketing and Supply Chain Management. The responsibilities and duties of the student’s internship job description will enable the student to gain practical work experience and acquire industry knowledge in the Marketing and Supply Chain Management field. The work experience must be related to the equivalent learning of a tradition upper-division 3-hour course in MSCM with clear documented evidence. (Please see the MSCM Assessment and Grading Evaluation Method) MSCM Internship Procedures: After completing the FCBE internship credit application procedures (located at: the following MSCM procedures must be completed to obtain 3-hours of MSCM academic credit: Ask a MSCM instructor to serve as the Academic Supervisor. Complete the Learning Agreement and obtain the Academic Supervisor’s signature. Obtain the MSCM Department Chair’s signature Return all forms to the Internship Coordinator in room FCB 114. Provide the Academic Supervisor a completed On-site Supervisor Evaluation form. Submit the completed internship assignment to the Academic Supervisor by the due date MSCM Internship Assessment and Grading Evaluation Method: To obtain 3-hours of academic credit for the internship, the student needs to complete the following Learning Agreement with the On-site Supervisor except for the evaluation method and percentage sections. The Academic Supervisor will determine the evaluation method and percentage. Click here for a printable blank form Click here for a printable example form MSCM Internship Grading: The evaluation method will be determined by the Academic Supervisor using the above Learning Agreement completed by the Student, On-Site Supervisor, and the Academic Supervisor. The evaluation methods will depend on the specific MSCM Learning Goals to be gained and how successfully they were achieved. The Academic Supervisor will determine the percentage to be applied for each MSCM Goal achievement and for the On-Site Supervisor Internship Evaluation form. The On-Site Supervisor Internship Evaluation form will be used for grading on the job performance. Grading will be: A=Outstanding Work B=Very Good Work C=Average Work D=Below Average Work F=Failed to complete The instructor will determine if the plus/minus grading system will be used. The drop/add procedures and other academic procedures apply the same as a regular course. Welcome Programs Students Faculty MKTG Faculty SCM Faculty PhD Students Publications Majors &amp; Minors See how a MSCM degree can benefit you! MSCM Internship Program Want to gain “real world” work experience related to your academic studies? Look no further! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .