#http://www.memphis.edu/economics/programs/undergraduate.php
Undergraduate Program - ECON - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Economics Welcome Programs Faculty Research News FCBE About Programs Faculty Research News Home ECON Programs Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Economics Undergraduate Minors | Undergraduate Majors Course Syllabi | Resources Scholarships | Internships | Student Organizations | Salaries Career Opportunities What can I do with an Econ degree? Click here . Economics is a versatile degree qualifying you for a wide range of career choices. It instills habits of critical thinking and decision-making, and provides research and analytical skills, that are valued in many professions. Economics majors find jobs in finance, banking, investment banking, sales and marketing, insurance and actuarial science, public administration, labor relations, foreign affairs, and journalism. Economics is also great training for graduate studies, not just in Economics, but also in Finance. Economics is particular good preparation of Law School. Economics majors score higher on LSAT and GRE exams than do students in other majors. Top Scholarships The Department of Economics offers two scholarships for junior and senior majors in economics, the Walter P. Armstrong Scholarship and the Opus 1 Scholarship. For details about them, please contact the Scholarship Office . Internal Scholarships (Apply through FCBE) – Deadline: April 1 Opus 1 Full-time junior or senior majoring in economics Must have submitted or planning to submit an article to Opus 1 Minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher Economics Club of Memphis – Armstrong Scholarship Full-time junior or senior majoring in economics Minimum 3.25 cumulative GPA or higher If awarded to a junior, the scholarship will be continued for one additional year, provided the recipient continues to major in economics and maintains a 3.25 GPA. External Scholarships (Apply through the scholarship sponsor)- Deadline: varies Minorities in Government Finance Scholarship/ Government Finance Officers Association Awarded to full-time or part-time upper-division minority students majoring in finance, political science, economics or business administration U.S. Citizen or permanent resident Must belong to one of the following groups: Black/ African American, American Indian/ Alaskan, Asian, Native Hawaiian/ Pacific Islander, Hispanic/ Latino Must plan to pursue a career in state and local governmental finance To apply, visit gfoa.org . Top Internships The Department of Economics believes strongly in the value of relevant work experience during undergradute studies and regularly places economics majors in a variety of internships. Applicantions and information are available through the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics Internship Office . Top Student Organizations The University of Memphis is committed to providing a stimulating academic environment for its students. This includes developing opportunities that will enhance all students’ college experience and learning both in the class and out. Omicron Delta Epsilon Undergraduate economics majors are encouraged to apply for Omicron Delta Epsilon, the international Economics Honors Society. Membership is open to students who have complete 12 hours of economics coures with a 3.0 GPA average, and have a 3.0 GPA overall. Memphis is open to all students with an interest in economics, not just economics majors. Top Salaries Economics majors tend to have one of the top median salaries, for both entry level and mid-career. but don't just take our word for, Check out these links for information about salaries for different majors. Which College Majors Pay Best? Top 15 Best Paying College Degrees The 15 college majors with the biggest payoffs Salary Increase By Major About Programs Faculty Research News Undergraduate Programs Learn about our undergraduate offerings! Seminars Keep up with the latest Economic academic research in our upcoming seminars. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .