#http://www.memphis.edu/oir/studentdata/
Student Data - OIR - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Office of Institutional Research Student Reports Academic Unit Reports Faculty/Staff Reports Interactive Tools Student Reports Enrollment Enrollment Monitors Common Datasets &amp; Profiles Enrollment Report Generator Markov Enrollment Projections Daily Enrollment Tracker Retention Retention &amp; Graduation Trends STEM Retention &amp; Graduation Trends Graduation Degree Reports &amp; Trends Graduation Report Generator Post-Graduation Student Followup Home OIR Student Data Student Reports Enrollment Enrollment Monitors Reports that provides basic student enrollment statistics as of the census date. Information includes enrollment by student classification, registration type, ethnicity, gender, and first time freshmen enrollment. Common Data Sets and Profiles Reports providing student information for various student profiles, including freshmen, undergraduates, Lambuth students, students in online courses, as well as overall University information contained within the Common Data Sets. Enrollment Report Generator An interactive report builder that allows you to build your own custom enrollment reports. You can create reports about headcounts, credit hours, test scores, GPA's, retention rates, and more. You choose the variables for the rows and columns of the report. Reports can be filtered by a number of different variables. Daily Enrollment Tracker Reports providing daily enrollment and credit hour totals for a term, compared to the same day for the prior year. Data includes student registrations through midnight from the previous day. Includes detailed reports by student and by course. Markov Chain Enrollment Projections (Excel) An interactive Excel workbook that allows you to enter different student enrollment totals and retention percentages in order to evaluate the impact on future enrollment growth and retention. Retention Retention and Graduation Trends (PDF) A report on the 4th, 5th, and 6th-year graduation rates, and the 1st-6th-year retention rates for the University's first time full time freshmen . Includes subsets of the first time full time freshmen by gender, race, first generation, Pell grants, and Hope Lottery Scholarships. Also includes graduation and retention rates of transfer students. Retention and Graduation in STEM Majors(PDF) A report on the 4th-8th year graduation rates, and 1st-8th year combined retention and graduation rates of first time full time freshmen who initially enroll in a STEM major. Graduation Degree Reports and Trends Choose from a variety of reports including Degree Trends: total degrees awarded during a 3-year period Trend Report on Graduates, Degrees, Majors, Concentrations: provides graduation trends by four different units of analysis Number of Graduating Majors by Ethnicity and Gender: Total graduates in each major, detailed by ethnicity and gender. Number of Graduating STEM Majors by Ethnicity and Gender: For STEM graduates only, total graduates in each STEM major, detailed by ethnicity and gender. Graduation Report Generator This interactive report builder allows users to create tables of graduation data on their own. You choose the variables for the rows and columns of the report. Reports can be filtered by a number of different variables. Post-Graduation Employment and Earnings These reports are available to help track what happens to students after they graduate from the University of Memphis. Student Reports Enrollment Enrollment Monitors Common Datasets &amp; Profiles Enrollment Report Generator Markov Enrollment Projections Daily Enrollment Tracker Retention Retention &amp; Graduation Trends STEM Retention &amp; Graduation Trends Graduation Degree Reports &amp; Trends Graduation Report Generator Post-Graduation Student Followup Enrollment Report Generator Create your own report about students. Graduation Report Generator Create your own report about degrees. Faculty/Staff Report Generator Create your own report about employees. Grade Distributions Create your own report about course grades. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .