#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mis/2015FMIS2845001.pdf
1 Course Syllabus MIS - 2845 - 001 Introduction to Business Application Programming Fall 2015 3 Credit Hours (Last updated: 8/22 /2015) Instructor: Dr. Chen Zhang, Associate Professor Time and Room : 11:20 AM 12:45 PM Tuesday and Thursday, FCB 37 3 Phone : 901 - 678 - 5671 E - mail: czhang12@memphis.edu Office: FAB 301 Office Hours: 1 0:00 AM 11:00 A M Tuesday 1:30 PM 3:30 P M Thursday Teaching Assistant: Venkatesh Mandapati (vmndpti1@memphis.edu) Course Overview Introduction to business application programming; program development using languages and techniques widely employed in business environment. Pre - Requisite : MIS 2749 Required Texts and Related M aterials : Textbook: Introduction to Java Programming Brief Version, 10th Edition, Author: Y. Daniel Liang, Publisher: Pearson. ISBN: 9780133592207 Software: Java SE Development Kit 8 ( - downloads - 2133151.html ) Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for Java Developers ( ) 2 Location of Course Materials : Course materials are available online by logging onto eCourseWare at elearn.memphis.edu. They include lecture slides, assignments, exercises, grades and related links. Course materials are organized into modules based on the topic. Course Objectives : After successfully completing this course, students will be able to: Anal yze problems and develop algorithms to solve them Make use of variables, expressions, control structures, and arrays in Java programs Organize program code using methods following the software engineering principles of modularity Write, document, test, and debug Java programs in commonly used IDEs Read, interpret, analyze and explain introductory Java programs Understand the fundamental concepts in object - oriented programming Develop simple GUIs in Java Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman College ( ingOutcomes/BBADegreeLearningOutcomes.pdf ). The overall learning objectives for the BBA degree include: 3 Course Methodology Combination of lecture and in - class hands - on programming activities. Students are expected to attend classes, actively participate in class discussions and programming activities, review the course content after class, and complete programming assignments on - time. Students are strongly encouraged to contact the Teaching Assistant or myself to seek any add itional help with course materials if needed. Student's Expectations: Course materials will be well - organized and you will be engaged in an active and supporting learning environment. I will respond to your emails within 2 business days if not sooner. Subm issions will be graded within 4 to 5 business days and your up - to - date grade will be posted on elearn throughout the semester. Grading and Evaluation Criteria Final Course Grades exercises, assignments, exams, and group project. Class performance will be weighted as follows: Component Percent of final grade Participation 5% P op Q uizzes 10% Exercises 15% Assignments 15% Exam 1 20% Exam 2 20% Group Project 15% Grades will be assigned using the following percentages: Grade Percent A 90% and above B 80% to 89% C 70% to 79% D 60% to 69% F Below 60% Course Topics Fundamentals of Java programming o Variables o Selections o Mathematical functions, Characters, and String 4 o Loops o Methods o Arrays Object - oriented programming GUI programming List of Formal Assessed Activities Participation You are expected to attend all classes and participate in class discussions/exercises. You are responsible for the material we cover in class if you miss a class. Lecture slides will be posted on the course website. Please note that office hours are not a substitute for class attendance. Participation will be evaluated using the following categories: Good (4% - 5% of final grade) Attends every c lass; participates in class discussions; asks meaningful questions; frequent communication with the instructor Fair (2% 3% of final grade) Attends most classes, but rarely participates in class discussions or distracts others during class; infrequent c ommunication with the instructor Poor (1% and below of final grade) Attendance is spotty; rarely participates in class discussions or distracts others during class; little communication with the instructor Exercises Each week I will assign programming ex lecture. These exercises will not only help you apply the concepts and techniques but also keep the instructor informed of your progress in the course throughout the semester You will wor k on the exercises individually . Copying othe Assignments There will be 3 assignments during the semester. Each assignment will take significantly longer to complete than exercises. Please allocate sufficient time to each assignment and always start as early as possible! Assignments need to be submitted to the appropriate dropbox on eCourseware by 11 :59PM of the due date (dropbox will close at 11:59PM of the due date). Each assignment will be graded out of 100 points and is worth 5% o f the final grade. Assignments should be done individually. Although students are allowed to discuss general concepts with each other, the specific code of the assignment should not be discussed or shared with others ohibited. Late submission should be done via email by including the assignment solution as an attachment. There will be a 10% penalty for each day (or partial day) assignment submission is past the due date/time unless the student has a properly document ed explanation for the late submission. If an assignment is turned in within 24 hours after the due date/time, there will be a penalty of 10 points. If an assignment is turned in within 48 hours after the due date/time, there will be a penalty of 20 point s. If an assignment is turned in within 72 hours after the due date/time, there will be a penalty of 30 points. No assignments will be accepted 72 hours (3 days) after the due date/time. Exams 5 There will be t wo closed - book in - class exams for this course. It will cover lecture material, class discussion, exercises, and textbook reading materials. The exam consists of multiple choice, short answer, and coding questions. Please see the schedule for the dates of the exams. If you know in advance that y ou will be absent on the day of the scheduled exam, you need to make arrangements with me as soon as possible. If you miss an exam because of illness or other unforeseeable emergency (proper documentation required), you must contact m e by email or phone wi thin two days of the scheduled exam date to make arrangement for a makeup exam. Failure to do so will result in a grade of zero for the exam. Projects Projects will be completed by groups of 3 to 4 students. Each group must develop and submit the proposal outlining the project, the code, and the documentation. At the end of the semester, each group will make a presentation and project demonstration. At the end of the semester, a winning ll be awarded to the final grades of members of the winning project group. In addition, you will submit one progress report informing the instructor of the project status. The due dates for project proposal, progress report, and final project are availabl e in the course schedule. The project will be assessed based on its proposal, progress report, coding, documentation, and presentation. The project will be graded as follows: Proposal 15% Presentation 25% Progress report 10% Code 40% Documentati on 10% Schedule of Activities See course schedule on course website. Final Exam Schedule The final exam for this class will be in the form of a group project presentat ion that will take place on the scheduled exam date as noted on the . Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email A ccount on a regular basis . You will receive all official course correspondence at this email ac count. It is your responsibility to make sure you are able to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion. If you prefer using your alterna te email address (gmail, yahoo, etc.), you should inform me in an email during the first week of class. Attendance and Participation : 6 This is a standard classroom course. It is important that you consistently attend classes throughout the semester and stay active and engaged in the classroom . Your full engagement in the class begins on th e first day of the semester and shou ld be maintained until the end of the semester . For students r eceiving federal student loans, any lack of engagement in the course may be treated as non - attendance and potentially impa ct access to student loans in the future. Students are expected participate in all interactive aspects of the course. You should also regularly communicate with the instructor as part of your overall learning experience, check the course website and email frequently for announcements , and act ively participate in classrooms discussions (both formal and informal). Note that class attendance and participation will contribute to your overall grade in the semester as noted under earlier in this syllabus. Adding/Dropping : If you have questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to this page on the Registrar's website . Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. Please refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. Note IS considered cheating. Shoul d your professor have evidence that using a Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academ ic Integrity . Note that Turnitin will be used extensively on submitted work, especially research and associated writing. Strong evidence of plagiarism will result in a zero on the submitted assignment. Classroom Behavior: All participants in the course should be considerate of the other particip ants and treat them and their opinions with respect. Use of cell phones or engaging in activities unrelated to class is not allowed in class. Extra Credit: There is no extra credit offered in this course. Your final grade will be com puted based on your work on the assessed activities previously described in this syllabus. Reporting Illness or Absence: Due dates and deadlines have been established and will be followed for each graded course component. act the instru ctor prior to the deadline to discuss the matter. A deadline extension will be considered only if both of the following conditions are met : (1) Extreme and unforeseeable emergency and (2) Instructor contacted prior to the due date. Inclement Weather: In the event that inclement weather requires the cancellation of classes at T he University of Memphis, local radio and television media will be immediately notified. Additionally , The University 7 of Memphis has established an Inclement Weather Hotline at 678 - 0 888 as well as Tiger Text (New Window), an emergency alert text messaging service to students, faculty and staff. This optional service is u sed in the event of an on - campus emergency, an unscheduled university closing, or a delay or canc ellation of classes due to, for instance, inclement weather . Syllabus Changes: The instructor reserves the right to make changes as necessary to this syllab us. If changes are necessitated during the semester , the instructor will immediately notify s tudents of such changes bo th by class email communication and posting both notification and nature of c hange(s) on the course website . Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance