#http://www.memphis.edu/law/programs/mph-fasttrack.php
MPH Fast Track - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Programs Special Degree Programs JD/MBA JD/MA in Pol. Science MPH Fast-Track Part-time Program Certificate Programs Advocacy Business Law Health Law Tax Law Experiential Learning Experiential Learning Home Legal Clinics Externship Program Academic Journals Law Review Mental Health Law &amp; Policy Advocacy Program Moot Court Board Joining Moot Court Board In-School Competitions Travel Team Competitions Past Champions Inst. for Health Law &amp; Policy Institute Home Advisory Committee Symposium Pro Bono Opportunities Health Law Certificate Health Law Society MBA Health Law Section Legal Writing International Law Programs Home School of Law Programs MPH Fast Track MPH FAST TRACK The School of Public Health at the University of Memphis offers a unique opportunity for attorneys to obtain a Master of Public Health degree in 12-months. Termed the "Fast Track MPH," the MPH is earned in an intensive full-time format in which attorneys attend classes during the evening and online for 3 consecutive semesters (fall, spring, summer). As part of their coursework, students also complete a 240-hour community-based practicum. The 42-credit program is designed to allow attorneys to extend their advocacy skills to a population health perspective and gain substantive knowledge in applying law and policy to public health problems. Special expertise will be gained in urban public health issues, health systems, public health policy, and environmental health advocacy. The program prepares attorneys for leadership in addressing public health policy issues related to access to healthcare, health reform, environmental justice, and social concerns that affect health equity. Eligible candidates must be graduates of the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law at the University of Memphis or another American Bar Association-accredited U.S. law school. For further information on the program, contact: Dr. Marian Levy, MPH Director in the School of Public Health - mlevy@memphis.edu or (901) 678-4514 Dr. Sue Ann McClellan, Dean of Admissions, Recruiting, &amp; Scholarships - smcclell@memphis.edu or (901) 678-5403 Meredith Aden, J.D., LL.M. - Assistant Dean for Law Student Affairs, University of Memphis, Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law at (901) 678-3441 or maden@memphis.edu Admissions Procedure Individuals applying to the MPH Program should complete and submit the application by April 1 (for Fall) and November 1 (for Spring). MPH application materials are found online The MPH admission requirement of GRE scores is waived in lieu of the LSAT. This training represents an unparalleled opportunity for attorneys to gain insight in applying legal policy to public health problems. Suggested Course Sequence "FAST TRACK" for Lawyers 12-month format Fall (5 courses) Spring (5 courses) PUBH 7150 Biostatistical Methods 1 PUBH 7180 Foundations of Public Health PUBH 7170 Epidemiology in Public Health PUBH 7985 Practicum in Public Health Guided Elective * PUBH 7120 Environmental Health PUBH 7160 Social and Behavioral Sciences Principles HADM 7105 Health Policy PUBH 7992 Master’s Project Seminar Guided Elective * Summer (4 online courses) Pre-Summer intersession course (HPRO Health Promotion) Guided Elective (First Summer Term) Guided Elective (Second Summer Term) Guided Elective (Entire Summer Term) Each course is worth 3 credits hours.14 courses X 3 = 42 hrs. * Consider shared credit for 6 hrs in Law School; will reduce by two electives. E.G., Administrative Law; Civil Rights; Disability Law and Practice; Education/Civil Rights; Elder Law; Environmental Law; Family Law; Gun Control/ Gun Rights Seminar; Health Law; Immigration Law; Labor Relations; Mental Health Law; or National Security Law. Programs Special Degree Programs JD/MBA JD/MA in Pol. Science MPH Fast-Track Part-time Program Certificate Programs Advocacy Business Law Health Law Tax Law Experiential Learning Experiential Learning Home Legal Clinics Externship Program Academic Journals Law Review Mental Health Law &amp; Policy Advocacy Program Moot Court Board Joining Moot Court Board In-School Competitions Travel Team Competitions Past Champions Inst. for Health Law &amp; Policy Institute Home Advisory Committee Symposium Pro Bono Opportunities Health Law Certificate Health Law Society MBA Health Law Section Legal Writing International Law Programs Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .