#http://www.memphis.edu/music/ensembles/stud-opera.php
University of Memphis Opera - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Ensembles Student Choral Jazz Opera Orchestral Bands Sound Fuzion Guitar Faculty Jazz Ceruti String Quartet Memphis Brass Quintet Memphis Woodwind Quintet Home Music Ensembles University of Memphis Opera Irresistible Opera. Opportunities abound for students in the University of Memphis Opera Program. With multiple performance possibilities, students gain experience in ensemble, comprimario roles, young artist contracts and leading roles. Opera workshop, vocal coaching and master classes focus on the many aspects of vocal performance and stage presentation. In partnership with Opera Memphis, the School of Music offers the Artist Diploma in voice, opera stage direction, and opera coaching. Learn more about this program here . Faculty Mark Ensley , Director of Opera Studies, who has served on the artistic staffs of Des Moines Metro Opera, Tulsa Opera, Opera Memphis and is a former faculty member of the International Vocal Arts Institute in Tel Aviv. Ben Smith , Opera Stage Director, who has led nineteen new productions since 2000, ranging from Pergolesi's La serva padrona to Conrad Susa's The Dangerous Liasons . Mignon Dunn , Artist-In-Residence, who has sung the leading mezzo-soprano roles in the most important opera houses of the world. Miss Dunn teaches one week per semester. In addition to faculty in residence, the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music is dedicated to a program of master classes with today's leading figures in opera. Recent visiting artists include: Giovanna Maresta, Teatro alla Scala Kathryn Hartgrove Guerilla Opera Stefano De Peppo, bass baritone Gayletha Nichols, Executive Director, Metropolitan Opera National Council Auditions Reed Woodhouse, The Juilliard School Louis Otey, baritone Claude Webster, Opera de Montréal Marco Nisticó, baritone Repertoire Each year the University of Memphis Opera produces two to three operas or musicals with orchestra and a gala concert. Students work with professional designers and production personnel and have the opportunity to work backstage as a part of their total education. All operas are presented in the original languages with projected English supertitles. Hansel and Gretel (2008), Idomeneo (2011), and Così fan tutte (2013) all won first place for Best Opera Production in the National Opera Association Opera Production Competition. In 2012, the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music teamed with the Department of Theatre and Dance to present an award-winning production of Andrew Lloyd Webber's Phantom of the Opera for the University's Centennial Celebration. The University of Memphis Opera also produced Raphäel Lucas' Confession for the National Opera Association/National Association of Teachers of Singing National Convention in January 2012 for a sold-out house of industry professionals. 2015/2016 The Beggar's Opera (Britten), Die Lustigen Weiber von Windsor 2014/2015 Le nozze di Figaro , Speed Dating Tonight! 2013/2014 Così fan tutte *, Trouble in Tahiti , Miss Havisham's Wedding Night 2012/2013 Summer and Smoke , Don Giovanni 2011/2012 Idomeneo *, Confession , Andrew Lloyd Webber's Phantom of the Opera ** 2010/2011 The Crucible , Tartuffe 2009/2010 Il barbiere di Siviglia (Act 1), Manon (Act 2), The Crucible (Act 1), The Old Maid and the Thief and T he Medium 2008/2009 Hansel and Gretel *, Partenope 2007/2008 Werther , The Mystery of Edwin Drood **, Die Zauberflöte 2006/2007 Le nozze di Figaro , Die Fledermaus 2005/2006 La bohème , Parade **, Don Giovanni 2004/2005 The Promise ***, Christopher Sly , Albert Herring 2003/2004 Il matrimonio segreto , Die Lustigen Weiber von Windsor 2002/2003 Into the Woods **, Suor Angelica , Gianni Schicchi 2001/2002 Così fan tutte , The Beggar's Opera (Britten), The Consul 2000/2001 Sweeney Todd **, Dido and Aeneas , Les contes d'Hoffmann 1999/2000 Die Entführung aus dem Serail , Don Giovanni 1998/1999 Hansel and Gretel , The Magic Flute 1997/1998 Le nozze di Figaro , Carmen * Winner first place for Best Opera Production, National Opera Association Opera Production Competition ** Joint production with The University of Memphis Department of Theatre and Dance *** World Premiere in conjunction with the Department of Theatre and Dance and The Germantown Performing Arts Center For production photos and news about the activities of the voice area area please visit our Facebook page. Beyond the University UofM Opera students perform often with professional companies. Our students and alumni have also performed with opera companies nationally and internationally, including: Ash Lawn Highland Summer Festival Arizona Opera Central City Opera Dallas Opera Des Moines Metro Opera Deutsche Oper Berlin English National Opera Florida Grand Opera Ft. Worth Opera Glimmerglass Opera Houston Grand Opera Indianapolis Opera Israel Vocal Arts Institute Lyric Opera of Chicago Metropolitan Opera Minnesota Opera Mississippi Opera Nashville Opera Natchez Opera Festival New Jersey Opera Theatre New Orleans Opera New York City Opera Opera Birmingham Opéra de Lyon Opera Memphis Opera North Opera Theatre of Saint Louis PORTOpera (Maine) Royal Opera Covent Garden San Francisco Opera Santa Fe Opera Seagle Music Colony Seattle Opera Shreveport Opera Syracuse Opera Teatro Real Madrid Theatro de São Paulo Washington National Opera Ensembles Student Choral Jazz Opera Orchestral Bands Sound Fuzion Guitar Faculty Jazz Ceruti String Quartet Memphis Brass Quintet Memphis Woodwind Quintet Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .