#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/pols.php
Political Science - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Political Science Political Science MATTHIAS KAELBERER, PhD Chair Room 437, Clement Hall 901.678.2395 NICOLE DETRAZ, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies E-mail: askykndl@memphis.edu I. The Department of Political Science offers individually tailored programs leading to the Master of Arts in Political Science. This degree provides a broad foundation in politics and government for those intending further graduate study or careers in education and public service or private enterprise. Both thesis and non-thesis programs are available. Together with the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law, the department offers a dual MA/JD program. Also, the study of Political Science may be combined with study in related areas. Assistantships are available for qualified students in all programs. Applications are available in Clement Hall, Room 437. All graduate students will consult with their advisor in the Department of Political Science as to the program of study they expect to follow. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. The Department of Political Science offers a graduate program leading to the Masters of Arts with a major in Political Science. Special fields of study included in the Master of Arts in Political Science are: American Politics (National, State, and Urban); Public Law; Political Theory; Public Policy; Comparative Politics, and International Relations. Program objectives are: (1) development of a broad understanding of the political science field; (2) understanding of the behavioral and humanist approaches to the study of politics; and (3) ability to engage in critical thinking and analysis, use of logic and evidence to construct and defend a position, and communicate argument in written and oral form. III. MA Degree Program A. Program Admission Admission to the program will be based on selections from a pool of applicants who meet the University’s Graduate School admission requirements. Significant weight is given to the following factors in determining admissions to the MA program: An undergraduate grade point average of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale from an accredited college or university. GRE or LSAT scores. Letters of recommendation from two persons (at least one academic) familiar with the applicant’s academic background or experience, specifying in detail the applicant’s capabilities for graduate study. A statement of approximately 1000 words indicating the applicant’s present interests and career goals, including why the applicant wants the MA degree. B. Program Requirements Students who write a thesis must complete 33 hours of graduate courses, including 3-6 hours of credit for POLS 7996, Thesis. Students electing to write a thesis should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write. Students who do not write a thesis must complete 36 hours of graduate courses. All students must complete POLS 7100, Seminar in Scope and Methods of Political Science Research, and POLS 7401, Seminar in Political Theory, and 7101 Political Statistics, with grades of B or better in each course. At least 27 semester hours of the courses (30 hours for the non-thesis option) must be taken at the 7000 level, at least 21 (24 for the non-thesis option) of which must be in Political Science. No more than 6 semester hours of internship courses may be counted toward the 33 or 36 semester hour requirement. Without the approval of the graduate coordinator and chair, no more than 6 semester hours outside the department of Political Science may be counted toward the 33 or 36 semester-hour requirement. Non-thesis students must pass a comprehensive examination and thesis students must pass an oral defense of their thesis. The oral defense of the thesis constitutes a comprehensive examination over all course-work. Comprehensive examinations will consist of six questions total. Students will answer two exam questions on the core Theory and Methods (POLS 7401 and POLS 7100, and POLS 7101) and two exam questions from any two of the following fields: American Politics, Public Law, Comparative Politics, International Relations, Political Theory, Public Policy or a combination of International Relations and Comparative Politics. A student should take a minimum of nine hours in each of the two examination fields. With the approval of the academic coordinator and the chair, a student may substitute 9 hours in a collateral field for one of the two examination fields. The examination committee will consist of a chair and two other faculty, chosen by the student in consultation with the academic coordinator and the chair of the examining committee. Each of the three written exams will be graded by at least two faculty readers, at least one of whom is a member of the examination committee. Students receive a grade of “low pass," "pass,” “high pass,” or “fail,” on each of the three exams. If a student receives a grade of “high pass” on all three exams, the oral examination is waived. Otherwise, the student will, upon passing all three written exams, submit to an oral exam with the committee, to cover all three examination areas. Students who fail any of the three written exams will not submit to an oral exam with the committee that semester. The student will be required to re-take the failed written exam(s) the following semester and then submit to an oral examination upon passage of said exams. Should students earn a low pass on any portion of the written exam(s) and then fail to compensate for the written weaknesses during their oral examination, the members of the examination committee will allow the students one week to successfully rewrite the examination answers in question. If the student fails to sufficiently improve their answers, they must retake the exams the following semester. IV. Dual MA-JD Program A. Program Admission Admission to the dual program will require separate admission to each program. However, for applications to the joint program, the Political Science Department will accept LSAT scores in lieu of the GRE. Students are admitted into each program separately; completion of one degree is not contingent upon completion of both. B. Program Requirements Dual Credit Students may earn up to a maximum of sixteen hours of dual credit for law courses taken at the law school. The following courses will qualify for both the JD and MA in Political Science: Law Courses Required at Law School: Constitutional Law 4 hours, Criminal Law 3 hours, Criminal Procedure I 3 hours Law School Electives: Administrative Law 3 hours, Criminal Procedure II 2 hours, Federal Courts A 2 hours, Federal Courts B 2 hours, Civil Rights 3 hours, Constitutional Law Seminar 2 hours, Tennessee Constitutional Law 2 hours, Jurisprudence 2 hours, International Law 3 hours, Comparative Law 3 hours, Immigration Law 3 hours, Environmental Law 3 hours Other Requirements For students in the dual program, their first year of law school must include only classes that are part of the JD program. With the above exceptions, all the normal requirements for admission and graduation for a JD and for an MA in Political Science apply. See the Law School's Academic Regulations , pp. 14-16, for current JD requirements. V. Accelerated B.A./M.A Program in Political Science This program allows outstanding undergraduates to begin the coursework for the Master of Arts in Political Science during their senior year. Students are encouraged to begin planning to enter the Accelerated B.A./M.A. program early in their undergraduate career, in consultation with their advisor in the Department of Political Science. Working with the undergraduate and graduate academic coordinators, undergraduates selected into this program begin a carefully tailored course of study which will allow them to complete their B.A. degree while they also begin the coursework toward their M.A. To apply, students should have a minimum 3.25 grade point average, and must submit two reference letters and a copy of their transcript to the Political Science department. Exceptions to the minimum GPA will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Each applicant will complete an interview with the graduate academic coordinator in political science. Students must also apply to the Graduate School for "combination senior" status, which allows them to take graduate courses in political science. To continue in the program past the B.A., students must apply for admission into the Graduate School and into the Political Science department's MA program. Up to 9 hours of graduate course work may be applied to both the undergraduate and graduate programs. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .