#http://www.memphis.edu/innovation/elc/
Experiential Learning - CITL - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Center for Innovative Teaching and Learning Academic Advising Finish Line ELC Internships Distance Learning Experiential Learning Overview Pre- Assessed Experiences Portfolio Development ELC Policies Campus Resources Contact Us Home CITL Experiential Learning Experiential Learning Credit Overview Welcome to the Experiential Learning Program! Prepare to embark on a journey of Self-Discovery. Believing that rigorous professional and/or personal development often occurs in settings outside the traditional classroom, the University of Memphis grants Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) to students who demonstrate the academic merit of such experiences. Experiential learning is learning by doing. What is ELC? Experiential Learning Credit is a highly individualized process that offers adult and non-traditional students the unique opportunity to petition for college credit for the knowledge, training, and skills they previously learned through a broad range of experiences outside of the traditional academic setting. What Are The Benefits of ELC? An ELC award will save money and accelerate degree completion. Undergraduate students are permitted to petition for up to 30 ELC hours at $75.00 per credit hour. Graduate students are permitted to petition for up to 9 ELC hours at $100.00 per credit hour. ELC will reduce the repetition of relevant course-related material for students with prior learning. Most importantly, ELC enables students to gain greater insight about themselves, while having the UofM validate the importance of their prior learning. What Prior Experiences May Qualify For ELC? Formal and informal learning experiences that have resulted from a rich array of: Professional Work Experiences Military Training Classes Professional Skills Workshops and Seminars Volunteerism Unique Life Experiences The ELC Program Guides Students As They: Identify areas of relevant learning from their past experiences, Demonstrate that learning through appropriate documentation, Submit learning materials for assessment, and Possibly gain academic credit for ELC. How Can I Participate In ELC? There are two pathways in which to participate in ELC and potentially earn academic credit: ELC Pre-Assessed : Many individuals have completed various kinds of training for which they have earned credentials. Certain professional and standardized training, licensure, and certification experiences whose content is equivalent to offerings from the UofM have been evaluated by faculty for credit hours. Examples of such education credit include Microsoft Certifications and Paramedics License. Current enrolled students are allowed to provide original documentation as proof of satisfactory completion for prior learning experiences. ELC Portfolio : Students without pre-assessed learning experiences are able to seek academic credits by developing a portfolio. The portfolio serves as a reflective narrative of the student's previous learning experiences and includes supporting documentation. Thus, the portfolio helps students articulate what they know and can do, as well as integrate this learning with the principles that would have been learned in university coursework. Strong, professional ELC portfolios with breadth and depth will: Clearly identify key learning concepts and describe concrete examples of the learning experiences; Critically reflect on the learning experiences; Thoroughly demonstrate an understanding of generalizations and principles gained from the experiences; and, Analyze how the learning can be applied in future personal and professional situations. You may be able to convert Critical Learning Events into College Credit by completing the Experiential Learning Credit course which includes the following seven modules. CONGRATULATIONS ON TAKING THE NEXT STEPS TO USE YOUR LEARNING EXPERIENCE TO FURTHER YOUR EDUCATION!!! Experiential Learning Overview Pre- Assessed Experiences Portfolio Development ELC Policies Campus Resources Contact Us Apply Now Ready to get started? Apply Now! myMemphis Your source for personalized online resources! Make A Gift Thank you for choosing to support the University of Memphis! Contact Us! Need to get in touch with us? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .