#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/gradfac_guidelines.php
Graduate Faculty Status Guidelines - Graduate School - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate School Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Programs Events Resources Faculty and Staff Curricular Procedures Curricular Revision Forms TBR Academic Program Proposal Policies TBR Academic Program Proposal Guidelines TBR Academic Program Proposal Forms Graduate School Calendar Graduate School Forms Graduate School Contact Information Home Graduate School Faculty/Staff Graduate Faculty Status Guidelines Graduate Faculty Status Guidelines 1. PREFACE The integrity of graduate programs rests fundamentally on the capabilities of the faculty. The policy regarding graduate faculty status is intended to ensure that student research and coursework are being directed by faculty members who are actively engaged in original scholarship and are current with respect to important developments in their discipline. There are six different categories of membership to the graduate faculty: full, associate, adjunct, adjunct research co-mentor, teaching adjunct, and affiliate (see Summary of Roles and Criteria for Graduate Faculty Status). The general procedure to attain membership to the graduate faculty is outlined immediately below. Additional details are provided in the sections related to each level. A "file" consists of the application form and any required accompanying material. 2. GENERAL PROCEDURE FOR GRADUATE FACULTY MEMBERSHIP Applicant completes an application file comprising an application form (available on-line) and supporting documents (see Section 3 for requirements at each level) and submits it to the appropriate departmental graduate committee. The committee forwards the application file and its vote to the department chair or equivalent. Comments may be attached. The chair then signs and forwards the application to the College Council for Research and Graduate Studies. In the event the chair disagrees with the committee recommendation, a detailed explanation must be included. Based on the College (or School) Council recommendation, the graduate director of graduate studies signs and forwards the application to the college/school dean. The dean of the college or school makes his/her decision by December 20 of each year. The file is then forwarded to the Graduate School for final approval. Copies of the files will be maintained at the college/school level as well as in the Graduate School. In the case of a negative decision by the Dean of Graduate Programs or designee, the applicant may appeal to the University Council for Graduate Studies as outlined in the following Appeals Procedure: The faculty member who wishes to appeal the decision must submit a request to the Vice Provost for Graduate Programs within 45 days of the date of the Dean's decision. The Dean will forward the appeal to the University Council for Graduate Studies, which will review the case and make its recommendation to the Dean. The action taken by the University Council at this point is final. 3. CRITERIA 3.1 GRADUATE FACULTY STATUS -- FULL MEMBER Who Is Eligible: Tenured and tenure-track faculty with significant scholarship beyond the dissertation and the ability to teach advanced graduate classes (7000-8000 level) and direct doctoral dissertations, even if the faculty member is in a department that does not offer such a program. Visiting professors may be granted full membership in the Graduate Faculty for the duration of their appointment. Significant Scholarship Beyond the Dissertation: At least six publications (in print or accepted for publication*) in nationally recognized refereed journals or equivalencies, as decided by the department and approved by the college/school, in a six-year period. The six years may be either the six years prior to the year of application or may include the year of application and the previous five years. Examples of equivalencies might be a book that contains original research and is published by a nationally or internationally recognized publisher, refereed or invited book chapters, refereed conference proceedings, films, and musical compositions. (*For publications cited as accepted, a copy of the letter of acceptance from the journal editor or publisher must be included.) Publications and equivalencies must maintain the standard and spirit of the requirement and be addressed in the faculty member's narrative (see below) and by the departmental recommendations. Requirements for Renewal: A continued pattern of scholarly activity of the quality expected for full membership. Roles: May teach 7000-8000 courses May chair both masters and doctoral committees May chair committees in other programs at that program's discretion May vote on graduate issues May serve on the University Council for Graduate Studies (UCGS) Procedure - Initial Admission and Renewal: The faculty member submits a complete curriculum vitae (in the current U of M format) together with a supporting narrative to the appropriate departmental graduate committee. This narrative should emphasize the candidate's qualifications for full membership, including a coherent scholarly agenda that demonstrates currency in the field of study as well as the ability to teach advanced graduate courses and direct doctoral dissertations. The application then follows the General Procedure for Application described in Section 2. The same procedure is followed to apply for renewal, except that only an abbreviated curriculum vitae detailing the applicant's last six years is required. Term: Full Graduate Faculty status will be granted to an individual for a period of six calendar years. In the case of visiting professors and faculty in the Post-Retirement Program it will be granted for the duration of their appointment. Resignation or Retirement: Upon retirement or resignation from the University, full membership in the Graduate Faculty automatically ceases, unless the faculty member is in the Post-Retirement Program. If the person wishes to retain membership in the Graduate Faculty, he or she should write a memo to the Graduate School, endorsed by the department chair and dean, requesting adjunct membership. If the faculty member chooses the Post-Retirement Program, he or she will retain current membership for the duration of the Post-Retirement program. Renewal of adjunct status will follow the usual procedure. 3.2 GRADUATE FACULTY STATUS -- ASSOCIATE MEMBER Who Is Eligible: Tenured and tenure-track faculty with the ability to teach advanced graduate classes (7000-8000 level) and to direct master's theses, even if the faculty member is in a department that does not have a master's thesis as a component of the program. Visiting professors may be granted associate membership in the Graduate Faculty for the duration of their appointment. The Potential for Original Scholarship: The applicant should demonstrate potential for original scholarship by having: (i) completed a terminal degree within the previous two calendar years; (ii) been hired in a tenure-track position within the previous two calendar years; or (iii) published and/or had accepted for publication at least three papers in refereed nationally recognized outlets within the previous six calendar years. Procedure - Initial Admission and Renewal: If the applicant meets all three requirements, completing the application form is sufficient; no narrative statement is required. Should a faculty member who is applying for associate membership not meet all of the above three standards, then the faculty member submits a complete CV (in the current U of M format) together with a supporting narrative to his/her departmental graduate committee. This narrative should emphasize the candidate's qualifications for associate membership, including a coherent scholarly agenda that demonstrates currency in the field of study as well as the ability to teach advanced graduate courses and direct master's theses. The application then follows the General Procedure for Application described in Section 2. The same procedure is followed to apply for renewal, except that only an abbreviated curriculum vitae detailing the applicant's last six years is required. Roles: May teach 7000/8000 courses May chair masters committees May chair masters committees in other programs at that program's discretion May serve on doctoral committees May NOT chair doctoral committees May vote on graduate issues May serve on University Council for Graduate Studies Term: Associate Graduate Faculty status will be granted to an individual for a period of six calendar years. In the case of visiting professors and faculty in the Post-Retirement Program it will be granted for the duration of their appointment. Resignation or Retirement: Upon retirement or resignation from the University, associate membership in the Graduate Faculty automatically ceases, unless the faculty member is in the Post-Retirement Program. If the person wishes to retain membership in the Graduate Faculty, he or she should write a memo to the Graduate School, endorsed by the department chair and dean, requesting adjunct membership. If the faculty member chooses the Post-Retirement Program, he or she will retain current membership for the duration of the Post-Retirement program. Renewal of adjunct status will follow the usual procedure. 3.3 GRADUATE FACULTY STATUS -- ADJUNCT MEMBER Who Is Eligible: This status is designed for individuals who hold terminal degrees and are not employed by the University as full-time faculty members, but who have special expertise that is of benefit to a particular graduate program. Procedure - Initial Admission and Renewal: The General Procedure for Graduate Faculty Membership must be followed. The individual's current CV together with an explanation from the department/unit regarding the qualifications of the individual and the anticipated role the individual will play in the graduate program must be included in the file that is forwarded to the College Council for Research and Graduate Studies. Roles: May teach 7000-8000 courses in areas of expertise May serve on masters and dissertation committees May NOT chair student committees No more than one affiliate or adjunct graduate faculty member may serve as a voting member of a committee May NOT serve on UCGS Term: Adjunct Graduate Faculty status will be granted to an individual for a period of three calendar years. 3.4 GRADUATE FACULTY STATUS - TEACHING ADJUNCT MEMBER Who Is Eligible: This status is designed for individuals who are employed by the University and have special expertise to teach particular graduate-only courses. They must have a master's degree and be able to show evidence of relevant expertise. Procedure - Initial Admission and Renewal: The General Procedure for Graduate Faculty Membership must be followed with an explanation from the department/unit regarding the qualifications of the individual to teach the particular subject matter. Roles: May teach graduate courses as indicted in application Carries no other responsibilities Term: Adjunct Teaching Graduate Faculty status will be granted to an individual for a period of three calendar years. 3.5 GRADUATE FACULTY STATUS - ADJUNCT RESEARCH CO-MENTOR Who Is Eligible: This status is designed to allow scholars who are not employed by the University of Memphis to co-chair a particular thesis or dissertation committee. Such scholars must be affiliated with U of M graduate faculty and students through a collaborative research project, including serving on the student's committee. The applicant must have research expertise that contributes to the graduate program, particularly through the enhancement of research opportunities for and mentoring of graduate students. This status is also available on a case-by-case basis to faculty who have left the University as well as to Adjunct and Affiliate members who meet the requirements of initial membership. Minimum Requirements for Initial Membership: Terminal degree plus publications, presentations, or other scholarly activity in nationally recognized outlets (or equivalent) in preceding 6 years. Procedure - Initial Admission and Renewal: Candidates for Research Co-Mentor are recommended by the department chair. The candidate submits a curriculum vitae or resume and the completed application for graduate faculty status to the department chair, who provides summary statement of the individual's qualifications and/or expertise to co-chair or serve on the thesis or dissertation committee of a specific student. The same procedure must be followed for each student committee the the Research Co-Mentor seeks to co-chair. Approval will be granted on a case-by-case basis. Roles: May co-chair a specific thesis or dissertation committee May serve on thesis/dissertation committees May NOT serve on UCGS Term: Adjunct Research Co-Mentor Graduate Faculty status will be granted to an individual for the term of a particular student's committee. 3.6 GRADUATE FACULTY STATUS - AFFILIATE MEMBER Who Is Eligible: This status is designed for individuals who hold post-graduate or professional credentials in their discipline and who are practitioners in scholarly, service, and/or creative activities. It is also designed for U of M non-tenure track faculty, research and clinical appointees or employees, and individuals with a formal non-employment affiliation with a U of M academic department or program. Such individuals must have post-graduate or professional credentials. Procedure - Initial Admission and Renewal: The General Procedure for Graduate Faculty Membership must be followed. The individual's current CV together with an explanation from the department/unit regarding the qualifications of the individual and the anticipated role the individual will play in the graduate program must be included in the file that is forwarded to the College Council for Research and Graduate Studies. Roles: May supervise graduate students in clinical or similar situations May teach select 7000-8000 courses with program and college approvals May serve on masters and dissertation committees No more than one affiliate or adjunct graduate faculty member may serve as a voting member of a committee May participate (at the discretion of their department/unit) in matters affecting Graduate School policies at the department and college level May NOT chair student committees May NOT serve on UCGS Term: Affiliate Graduate Faculty status will be granted to an individual for a period of three calendar years. Faculty and Staff Curricular Procedures Curricular Revision Forms TBR Academic Program Proposal Policies TBR Academic Program Proposal Guidelines TBR Academic Program Proposal Forms Graduate School Calendar Graduate School Forms Graduate School Contact Information Get More Information Request information about a specific program of interest. Graduate Catalog Learn more about our programs. Apply Now Submit your application today. Support Graduate Education Your gifts make a difference! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .