#http://www.memphis.edu/anthropology/about/enriched-learning.php
Enriched Learning - Department of Anthropology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Student Life Resources About About the Department Students &amp; Career Enriched Learning Home Department of Anthropology About Enriched Learning Enriched Learning Students conducting surveys on a Shelby Farms Greenline Project "The community engaged projects are an incredible opportunity to tie coursework into real experiences. Participating in these projects provided great insight into class material that otherwise would not have been possible." Erica, undergraduate Anthropology Major What is enriched learning? Service Learning Classroom instruction paired with meaningful community service to promote a sense of outreach and civic engagement. Engaged Scholarship Academic projects that engage faculty and students in a collaborative and sustained manner with community groups to connect university outreach with organizational goals. Internships Training and experience in governmental agencies, non-profit organizations, businesses, museums, hospitals and more. Directed Readings and Research Intensive student-faculty guided study or research of original data. Study Abroad See the Study Abroad website for details . Enriched learning courses American Communities Anthropological Methods Anthropology of Tourism, Sustainability and the Environment Applied Anthropology and Development Applied Archaeology and Museums Biocultural Epidemiology Culture and Consumerism Culture, Sex and Childbirth Food, Culture and Power Health, Culture and Environmental Justice Medical Anthropology Medical Anthropology Theory and Practice Museum Practices Museums and Communities Neighborhood Development and Social Entrepreneurship Race and Health Disparities Recent projects Check out some of the exciting work our students have been doing! Each semester course offerings and enriched learning opportunities vary. Talk with your instructors to find out what new projects they are planning. Community Development and Social Justice Students conducting research on community gardens Students in Culture and Consumerism; Neighborhood Development and Social Entrepreneurship, and; Health, Culture and Environmental Justice have collaborated with GrowMemphis and the South Memphis Farmers Market to support the implementation of the community-led South Memphis Revitalization Action Plan, and to conduct research with community garden leaders and market vendors and customers. Similarly, in Food, Culture and Power, students worked with the Food Advisory Council to conduct research on school lunches and community gardening at a local elementary school. Students in Health, Culture and Environmental Justice and Neighborhood Development and Social Entrepreneurship helped develop and conduct an ethnographic evaluation of the joint Sierra Club, University of Memphis grassroots environmental justice conference in the fall of 2014. Finally, faculty have offered or collaborated on study abroad classes including Dr. Brondo's Anthropology of Tourism, Sustainability and the Environment in Costa Rica. Medical Anthropology Student conducting research on medicinal plants in Ecuador Students in Medical Anthropology and other courses have researched condom access for a Shelby County Health Department evaluation and supported a county-wide Teen Pregnancy and Parenting evaluation. A number of graduate students traveled to Saraguro Ecuador with Dr. Ruthbeth Finerman to conduct research on medicinal plants. Students in Medical Anthropology Theory and Practice researched the local availability and awareness of medications to prevent HIV, and developed training materials for an online course in health equity. Finally, students in Health, Culture and Environmental Justice and Race and Health Disparities have investigated environmental inequality and associated health implications in Memphis. Museums Students sorting through artifacts at the C.H. Nash Museum at Chucalissa In museum based cultural heritage classes, all students propose, create, and install real-time projects in a Memphis area museum. Projects are based in museum best practices and include curation, exhibits, marketing plans, community outreach, and educational programs. About About the Department Students &amp; Career Enriched Learning Undergrads: Declare Anthropology your major! Join the Graduate Program Learn about applied and engaged anthropology! News and Events Find out what's happening in the Department of Anthropology Contact Us Main office location and numbers, undergraduate and graduate advising Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .