#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/pdfs/higher_ed_program_information.pdf
Higher Education ConcentrationEd.D. DEGREE INFORMATION Higher and Adult Education Program Department of Leadership UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS COLLEGE OF EDUCATION MEMPHIS, TN 38152-6172 PHONE: (901) 678- FAX: (901) 678-1191 VISIT OUR WEB SIT E: A Tennessee Board of Regents Institution An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action University Revised 10/09/09; maintained by Katrina Meyer Revised by Meyer 1/27/09 2 Careers: Higher Education Administrator in: Athletics, Admissions, Finance and Business Services, Human Services, Student Services, Academic Affairs, Fundraising and Development , Information Technology, Policy Analysis, Program Director, plus Faculty in: A Higher Education Program (teaching higher education courses), plus Chair or Director of: An academic, degree-granting program. Introduction The doctoral degree programs of the College of Education require the candidate to have a clear, professional goal and a commitment to scholarship, leadership, and excellence. To accomplish this, a close, continuous professional interaction among the candidate, faculty, and fellow students is an integral part of the program of study. The Doctor of Education (Ed. D.) is a degree designed to provide a program of studies for individuals seeking to enter or advance as a higher education administrator or a faculty of higher education theory and practice. The program covers advanced coursework in topics necessary to both administrators and future faculty of higher education, development of research skills, and the application of those skills to a dissertation. The following outcomes will be measured through performance in courses, on a comprehensive examination, and in the writing of a dissertation: 1.Knowledge and attainment of leadership skills 2.Knowledge of the discipline of higher education 3.Knowledge and skills in policy formulation, implementation and evaluation 4.Skills in analyzing data and relating it to organizational effectiveness 5.Demonstrate knowledge, skills, and attitudes for lifelong learning 6.Participate in scholarly inquiry, educational service and leadership roles that contribute to education 7.Demonstrate a clear professional goal and a commitment to scholarship, leadership, and excellence Revised by Meyer 1/27/09 3 Employment Opportunities Students achieving this degree could be employed as higher education administrators in two- and four-year colleges and universities that are private, for profit, or public. Individuals may also want to consider careers as policy analysts with higher education bodies such as a coordinating or governing board or with funding agencies (foundations or governments). Lastly, individuals with this degree may have an interest in becoming faculty who instruct and conduct research in higher education programs. Course Requirements This degree requires a minimum of 54 credit hours after 36 credits in the concentration, plus 9 credits in research and 9 dissertation hours. The following courses are required for Ed.D.: LEAD 8001 Leadership in Organizations LEAD 8500, Adult Learning and Leadership HIAD 8415 Historical and Policy Perspectives HIAD 8415, IT Trends & Issues HIAD 8541, College Teaching HIAD 8420, Higher Education Law HIAD 8422, Higher Education Finance HIAD 8401, Higher Education Administration LEAD 8003 Policy Oriented Research HIAD 8403, Research in Higher and Adult Education Plus two electives chosen in consultation with your advisor EDPR 8541 Statistical Methods Applied to Educational Research I EDPR 8542 Statistical Methods Applied to Educational Research II A third research course to support the dissertation research LEAD 9000 Dissertation See the Program of Studies form in the appendix for these requirements. The Department of Leadership as the Source for This Degree Professors in the Higher and Adult Education program of the Department of leadership are qualified to teach courses leading to the degree because they Revised by Meyer 1/27/09 4 have doctorates in this field of study as well as experience as higher education administration at the institution, state, and system levels. They are active researchers and are published in a wide range of journals. They are experienced at helping students through the process of selecting a topic, designing research, and writing the results for external audiences. They are also familiar with the role of faculty in higher education programs and can help you prepare for such a rewarding career. Students completing this degree will be able administrators who can help their institutions address changing conditions, lead others in effective ways, and collect and analyze data to improve higher education institutions as well as the practice of specific professions. What the Faculty Do for This Degree Faculty members work with individual students to identify personal interests and career goals as well as advice on ways of achieving these goals. They supervise the degree program of each student, provide leadership and monitoring for all activities, guide the residency project, conduct comprehensive examinations, and direct the dissertation. They are active in formative and summative evaluation processes to integrity and currency. Degree Recipients The following persons are among the many who have received this degree: Dr. Shawn Mackey , Director of Career Technical Education, Mississippi State Board for Community and Technical Colleges Dr. Michael Minor, Pastor, Oak Hill Baptist Church; Chair, Healthy Congregations Mississippi; Higher Education Consultant Dr. Rebecca Reynolds , Associate Professor and Director, Health Informatics and Information Management, University of Tennessee Health Science Center Dr. Janet Wilbert, Program Director and Assistant Professor of Health and Human Performance, University of Tennessee-Martin Admission Procedures Revised by Meyer 1/27/09 5 To be admitted to the doctoral degree program, each student must meet all Graduate School requirements and then complete an application to the program. All requirements for admission or readmission to the university must be completed before registration is authorized. Graduate School Requirements 1.An application to the Graduate School . When filling it out, indicate that the major is Higher and Adult Education with a concentration in Higher Education. Complete the application and submit it. A fee will be charged for submitting the application. 2.An official report of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores. For questions regarding this test, or other information regarding the Graduate School, call Graduate School Admissions at 901-678-2911. The Testing Center at the university is 901-678-2428. 3.Official transcripts of any prior undergraduate and graduate courses. 4.Three letters from professional reference s.Department of Leadership Requirements The faculty recommend that you contact HIAD@memphis.edu or (at (901) 678-) as you prepare your application. We will ensure that your application is complete. HIAD faculty review applications only twice a year; a complete application must be submitted by April 1 or November 1 to be considered for admission. The following are the admission requirements of the Higher and Adult Education program: 1.Letter of application to the department, including a statement of goals and an indication of the concentration you wish to pursue 2.Current resume 3.Official transcripts 4.Current GRE scores Revised by Meyer 1/27/09 6 5.Three professional letters of reference For a guide to applying to HIAD programs, please goto You can transfer in only 12 credits into the program; these must be at the appropriate level and cannot have been applied to previous degrees. The faculty will need to review syllabi of these courses to determine if they can be used in the program of study. If you have questions about the process or about the career, feel free to contact: Dr. Jeffery Wilson at J.L.wilson@memphis.eduYou are encouraged to enroll in a course prior to applying to the program. You will need to apply for non-degree status to register for the course, but this is a nice way to see if you like us and if the program will satisfy your career needs. Linkage to the Graduate School Web Page For detailed information about doctoral education in the College of Education, click on , then click on Graduate Handbook Doctoral Degree Programs and on COE Graduate Office Forms (the College of Education requires some forms that are not required by the Graduate School). Revised by Meyer 1/27/09 7 Appendix -- Program of Studies* Ed.D . HIAD -- Concentration in Higher Education Course No. Course Title Semester/ Year Scheduled Credit Hours Grade Required Courses in Major (36 hrs min. ) LEAD 8001 Educational Leadership in Organizations 3 LEAD 8002 HIAD 8412 American Society & Educ. Policies Historical & Policy Perspectives 3 LEAD 8003 Policy Oriented Research Prerequisites: EDPR 8541, EDPR 8542, LEAD 8001, HIAD 8412 3 LEAD 8500 Adult Learning & Leadership 3 HIAD 8403 Research in Higher & Adult Educa tion Prerequisites: HIAD 8415, EDPR 8541, EDPR 8542, & 1 additional research course appropriate to dissertation 3 HIAD 8401 Higher Education Administration Prereq: LEAD 800 1, HIAD 8415, HIAD 8422, HIAD 8420 3 HIAD 8415 IT Trends & Issues 3 HIAD 8420 Higher Education Law Prerequisite: HIAD 8415 3 HIAD 8422 Higher Education Finance Prerequisite: HIAD 8415 3 HIAD 8541 College Teaching 3 HIAD 7410 Or Elective Overview of Higher Education (for students without experience in a Higher Ed setting) 3 Elective 3 Research Courses (9 hrs minimum) EDPR 8541 Statistical Methods Applied to Education I 3 EDPR 8542 Statistical Methods Applied to Education II 3 Required ** 3 LEAD 9000 DIS SERTATION HOURS (9 hrs minimum) 9 TOTAL (minimum) 54 *Subject to Change. Actual form must be completed on line. This is a working copy only. ** Research course to be approved by your advisor and appropriate to your dissertation research: ____________________________ _________________________________ Advisor's Signature Date Department Chair's Signature Date