#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/pdfs/adult_ed_program_information.pdf
Adult Education Concentration Ed.D Degree Information Higher & Adult Education Program Department of Leadership University of Memphis College of Education, Health and Human Sciences Memphis, TN 38152 - 6172 Phone: (901) 678 - 3531 Fax: (901) 678 - 1191 Vi sit our website: A Tennessee Board of Regents Institution An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action University Revised: Introduction The doctoral degree programs in the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences require the candidate to have a clear, professional goal a nd a commitment to scholarship, leadership, and excellence. To accomplish this, a close, cont inuous professional interaction among the candidate, faculty, and fellow students is an integral part of the program of study. The Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) with concentration in Adult Education is a degree designed to provide a program of studies for indivi duals seeking to enter academic professions or advance in such fields as business and industry, heal th related occupations, community and non - profit organizations. The following outcomes will be measured throu gh performance in courses, on a comprehensive examination, and in the writing of a dissertation: 1. Develop and attain leadership skills 2. Identif y and apply knowledge of the discipline of Adult Education 3. Formulate, implement, and evaluate policy 4. Analyze data and relate it to organizational effectiveness 5. Demonstrate knowledge, skills, and attitudes for lifelong learning 6. Participate in scholarly inquiry, educational se rvice and leadership roles that contribute to education 7. Demonstrate a clear professional goal and commitment to scholarship, leadership and excellence The Department of Leadership Professors in the High er and Adult Education program of t he Department of Leadership have experience in adult education at universities, col leges, community organizations, corporate settings, non - profit organizations, and internat ional settings. They are active researchers and are published in a wide range of jo urnals. They are experienced at helping students through the process of selecting a res earch topic, designing a study, analyzing data and writing the dissertation. They are also fa miliar with the role of faculty in adult education programs and can help you prepare for a rewarding career. Student Faculty Relationship Faculty members work with individual students to identif y personal interests and career goals and advise them on ways to achieve these goals. They supervise th e degree program of each student, provide leadership and monitor all activities, guide resi dency research projects, conduct comprehensive examination s, and direct the dissertation. They are active in formative and summative evaluation processes to guarante e the programs integrity and currency. Admission Procedures To be admitted to the doctoral degree program, each student must meet all Graduate School requirements and then complete an application to the HIAD program. All requirements for admission or readmission to the university must be completed before registration is authorized. Graduate School Requirements 1.Complete an application to the Graduate School . When filling it out, indicate that the major is Higher and Adult Education with a concentration in Adult Education. Complete the application and submit it. A fee will be charged for submitting the application. 2.Submit an official report of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores. For questions regarding this test, or other information regarding the Graduate School, call Graduate School Admissions at (901) 678-2911. The testing center at the university is (901) 672-2428. 3.Submit official transcripts of all prior undergraduate and graduate courses. 4.Submit three letters from professional references. Department of Leadership Requirements The faculty recommends that you contact and work with Ms. Courtney Orians at (901) 678-5229 or email cckelly@memphis.edu as you prepare your application. She will ensure that your application is complete. HIAD faculty review applications three times a year: April 1, June 1, and November 1. The following are the admission requirements of the Higher and Adult Education program: 1.Letter of application to the department, including a statement of goals and an indication of the concentration you wish to pursue 2.Current resume 3.Official transcripts 4.Current GRE scores 5.Three letters from professional references For a guide to applying to HIAD programs please go to You may transfer a maximum of 12 credits into the program; these must be at the appropriate level and cannot have been applied to previous degrees. The faculty will review syllabi of each course to determine if they can be used in the program of study. If you have questions about the process or about the career, feel free to con tact: Dr. Barbara Mullins Nelson (901) 678 - 4270 bmullins@memphis.edu Dr. Jeffery Wilson jlwilson@memphis.edu Dr. William Akey wakey@memphis.edu You are encouraged to enroll in a course prior to apply ing to the program. This allows you to check us out and s ee if you like us and if the p rogram will satisfy your career needs. Please contact Ms. Courtney Orians at (901) 678 - 5229 or cckelly @memphis.edu for assistance registering as a non - degree student. Course Requirements This Ed.D degree requires a minimum of 54 credit hours after the master s degree: 36 credits in the concentration, 9 credits in research, and 9 dissertation hours. Proposed Course Schedule: Year/Term Course Faculty Fall HIAD 8 542 International & Comparative Issues HIAD 8541 Issues & Trends Teaching Adults Mullins Nelson Murrell Spring EDPR 8541 Stats I LEAD 8001 Leadership in Organizations Ishitani Wilson Summer* EDPR 8542 Stats II EDPR 8561 Qualitative R esearch Methods Stranak TBA Fall LEAD 8003 Policy - Oriented Research HIAD 8510 Overview of Adult Education Meyer Mullins Nelson Spring HIAD 8415 Issues * Trends in IT LEAD 8500 Adult Learning & Leadership Meyer Mullins Nelson Summer* HIAD 8412 Historical and Policy Perspectives in Higher Ed Elective** Wilson Various Fall Elective** or HIAD 8404 Supervised Research Meyer Spring HIAD 8530 Continuing Professional Education HIAD 8403 Research in Higher & Adult Education Comprehensive Exams Murrell Meyer Summer* Dissertation Various Fall Dissertation Various Spring Dissertation Various Summer Dissertation Various *There will be a one - week on - campus session during summer term. The da tes for 2014 are TBD . **Electives: choose from LEAD 7100, HIAD 8512, 8411, 8511, 8512 Career Opportunities Recipients of the Ed.D. in Adult Education are prepare d to educate adult learner s and promote the lifelong learning philosophy through their work in a variety of positions. The many positions that these graduates are prepared to fill include: Instructor/Faculty Member Career Counselor Program Planner/Developer Dean of Extension Education or Continuing Education Cooperative Extension Educator Religious Educator Health Ed ucator Adult and Family Literacy Specialist Director of Staff Development Director of Training in Organizational Setting Community Educator By serving in such capacities, graduates of the Ed.D. program in Adult Education help adult learners achieve their a cademic and professional goals. Degree Recipients The following persons are among many who have received this degree. Dr. Augustine Tawiah, Principal (Preside nt); Ghana Bible College, Ghana Dr. M. Sharon University of the Incarnate Word, San Antonio, TX Dr. Trenia Miles, Director: Retention Se rvices and Program Coordinator; MidSouth Community College, West Memphis, AR Dr. Becky Hall, Director of the Delta Area Health Education Center; Helena - West Helena, AR Dr. Scotty Dunlap, Assistant Professor of Safety , Security, and Emergency Management; Eastern Kentucky University, Richmond, KY Graduate School Web Page For additional information about doctoral education in t he Colle ge of Education, Health and Human Sciences, visit - g raduation.htm then click on Graduate Handbook Doctoral Degree Programs and on COE Graduate Office Forms (the College of Education, Health and Human Sc iences requires some additional forms that are not required by the Graduate School.)