#http://www.memphis.edu/law/documents/fall2015registgrationmemo.pdf
YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR READING THIS MEMO PRIOR TO REGISTRATION F ALL 2015 L AW S CHOOL R EGISTRATION V ETERANS - M ONDAY , A PRIL 6 AT 8:00 A . M . 43+ HOURS - T UESDAY , A PRIL 7 AT 9:00 A . M . 15 - 4 2 HOURS - T HURSDAY , A PRIL 9 AT 8 :00 A . M . 0 - 14 HOURS - F RIDAY , A PRIL 10 AT 9:00 A . M . You will register on your myMemphis Student Self - Service account for the summer 2015 term . Please read the following instructions and pay close attention to the Law School Academic Calendar as some of our dates and deadlines differ from the rest of the University. The registration materials posted on the Law School website and the bulletin bo ard in Room 262 are the only official Law School registration materials. You are responsible for following the Law P RIORITY E NROLLMENT : There is a priority procedure in place for summer registration. Students may not register before their authorized time. Students who violate this provision will be removed from the class in which they registered early . Questions about your priority status should be directed to the Law Sc Registrar Office . (1) Veterans or Active Duty Military State law author izes priority registration for V eterans. V eterans may register beginning Monday , April 6 , at 8 :00 a.m. (a) Veterans : If you are a V eteran but are not claiming VA Educational B enefits , and are not registered with the Veterans Educational Benefits & Certification O ffice on campus, you will need to provide them with a copy of your DD - 214 so your account can be coded for early registration. (b) National Guard : Provid e the Veterans E ducational Benefits & Certification O ffice with a copy of your DD - 214 and Notice of Basic Eligibility (NOBE). (c) Reserves : Provide the Veterans Educational Benefits & Certification O ffice with a copy of your DD - 214 that indicates you have completed initial active duty for training. 2 Veterans Education Benefits & Certification Office of the Registrar 003 Wilder Tower Phone: 901 - 678 - 2996 Fax: 901 - 678 - 1425 vetedbenefits@memphis.edu (1) Students who have attempted 43 or more credit hours at the time of registration will be allowed to register on Tue sday, April 7 , at 9:00 a.m. * (2) Students who have attempted 15 - 42 credit hours at the time of registration will be allowed to register on Thursday, April 9, a t 8 :00 a.m. * (3) Students who have attempted 0 - 15 or more credit hours at the time of registration will be allowed to register on Friday, April 10, at 9:00 a.m. * - progress, i.e. the hours in which you are enrolled at the time of registration. To find your official number of attempted hours, look at your Academic Transcript in Banner, at the column e completed academic term. R EGISTRATION I NFORMATION : Log on to myMemphis with your University ID and password, select the Student tab, go to Registration Tools and follow the directions. Course Registration Numbers (CRNs) are listed on the Law School Course Schedule online . If you need assistance accessing your m yMemphis account, contact 901 - 678 - 8888. (1) You may register and pay fees until 4:30 p.m. on Friday, August 14 , 2015 , without incurring late fees. Seating capacity is limited in some classrooms; it is to your advantage to register early. Your c ourses will be cancelled for non - payment at 4:31 p.m. on Friday, August 14, 2015 . (2) Course Load ( Academic Regulation 5 ): (a) Full - time students must enroll in a minimum of 12 hours and not more than 18 semester hours. For students with a GPA below 2.50, the maximum course load is 16 hours unless prior approval is obtained from the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs . Students wishing to switch to part - time must submit a written request to the Associate Dean for Academi c Affairs for approval prior to enrolling. (b) Part - time students must enroll in at least 8 and not more than 11 credit hours. Students wishing to switch to full - time must submit a written request to the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs for approval prio r to enrolling . Taking less 3 than 12 credit hours may affect the amount of your financial aid. Contact Joanna Darden with financial aid questions. (3) Cou rse Sequencing and Requirements ( Academic Regulation 16 ): (a) Second - Year Full - Time Students: Second - year students are required to take Evidence in the fall or spring semester . Second - year students should , but are not required to, enroll in Professional Responsibility and take courses from the Statutory Course Menu and the Practice Foundation Menu. Two of the five c ourses in each menu must be completed prior to graduation. The following Menu courses are offered in the f all 2015 semester : Statutory Menu Courses Practice Foundation Menu Courses Income Tax Administrative Law Sales Business Organizations Family Law (b) Second - Year Part - Time Students: Criminal Law Property I Evidence or an Elective (c) Thir d - Year and Fourth - Year Part - Time Students: Complet e any required courses as needed under the curriculum in place when you entered law school. (d) Part - Time Students: You must enroll in required courses in sequence. If you fail to register for a required course in sequence, you are deemed enrolled and will receive a failing grade in the class for failure to attend. L IMITED C OURSES : Skills and Advanced Research : The online sign - up for limited courses begins on Fri day , March 2 0 at 9:00 am and ends on Friday, March 27 at noon . Check the Blog for informati on describing the sign - up procedure. Students selected for a seat in a limited enrollment course will be notified by email before r egistration begins . If you are selected, t If you decide not to take the limited enrollment course, you must drop the course and notify the Law immediately . Externships : Professor Danny Schaffzin, Director of the Externship Program , will notify students who were selected for Externships A 4 student who wishes to drop the Externship Course must obtain the permission of Professor Schaffzin before doing so . Legal Clinics : The clinic faculty member will notify students selected for Legal Clinics; these If you decide to drop the clinic, notify the faculty member and the immediately . H OLDS : If you have any HOLDS on your account, you will not be able to register until you clear the HOLDS through the . Check your account now and clear any HOLDS . We do not have access to th e HOLD information and cannot help you clear it. A LTERNATE P IN : A student who fall s into one of the following categories should email the Law PRIOR to registration . Students who: (1) semesters, (2) are registered with Veteran Services, (3) are registered with Disability Resources for Students office , or (4) are pursui ng a JD/MBA or JD/MA degree. F EES : Refer to the . D EADLINES : Refer to the Deadlines Calendar. Drops/Adds ( Academic Reg ulation 6 ) : Add courses via your acc ount through Sunday , August 16 , 2015 at 4:30 p.m . Drop courses via your account through Mon day, November 23 . Drops after this date must be done through the Law Registrar O ffice, with permission from the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs. (a) The deadline for 100% refund for dropp ed courses is Sunday, August 16 , 2015 at 4:30 p.m . (b) Courses d ropped after Sun day, Septembe r 6 transcript. Late Registration : Late registration is Satur day, August 15 from 8 a.m. , through Thursday, August 27 at 4 :30 p.m . The fee payment deadline for late r egistration is Fri day, August 28 at 4 :30 p.m. A late registration fee will be assessed to students who register during this period . Any classes missed due to late registration count as absences. 5 Courses Canceled for Non - Payment: For regular registration, a ll courses wil l be canceled for non - payment after 4:30 p.m. on Fri day , August 14 , 2015 . For late registration, all courses will be canceled for non - payment after 4:30 p.m. on Friday, August 28 . P REREQUISITES : Students are responsible for compliance with course prerequisites and other course restrictions as stated in the Academic Regulations and in the Course Catalog . A student may be dropped from a course if the student has not taken a course prerequisite. E XPERIENTIAL L EARNING : 1. Clinic and Externship course information is available online. In addition to the Academic Regulations , please review the Policies and Procedures of the Externship Program . 2. Students may only receive credit toward graduation for three Externships, or two Clinics, or a combination of two Externship s and one Clinic. 3. Absent permission from the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, a student may not repeat a clinic or e xternship , may not enroll in both a clinic and e xternship in the same semester or summer session, and m ay not enroll in more than one clinic or one e xternship in any semester or summer session. A student enrolled in an e xternship may not be enrolled in more than 16 hours. Students must have completed 28 hours before enrolli ng in an Externship. For enrollment purposes in these limited enrollment course s , a student who has taken one clinic will not receive priority for a second clinic, and a student who has taken one externship will not receive priority for a second externship. I NDEPENDENT R ESEARCH : Students interested in enrolling in Independent Resea rch must obtain the permission of the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and turn in a completed Research Paper Form to the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs . Forms may be picked up from the Law School Registrar. If you are interested in enrolling, yo u should speak with the Associate Dean prior to registration. E XAM S CHEDULE : Please refer to the Exam Schedule when making course selections. A student may not enroll in courses that have conflicting examinat ion schedules. No exceptions to the Exam Schedule will be made unless written approval is obtained from the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs prior to enr olling . Requests must be submitted in writing. L IMITATION ON C OURSES G RADED E,S, U U C OURSES ) : A student may not utilize more than twelve ( 12 ) credit hours toward graduation requirements from any combination of the following courses : Externship, Law Review or Law Review Board, Moot Court, (including Moot Court Board, Moot Court Executive Board, and inter - school or intra - 6 school competition credit), Independent Research, and Advanced Clinic. B AR C OURSES : In addition to our required and menu curri c ulum, the subject matter of Conflicts and Remedies course s may be tested on the Tennessee Bar Examination. L OCKERS : Payment should be made online . Once you have paid the locker fee online, see Brigitte Boyd in Room 260 for assignment of a locker and combination. Fa ll 2015 Law FINANCIAL INFORMATION YOU are responsible for compliance with the following policies a nd additional fee information on the . Dates for registration and fee payment are available online . See also the Law Deadlines Calendar. P lease read before registering. Registration Cance l lation Policy NO PAYMENT = NO CLASSES! If your financial aid (grants and student loans), scholarship, and/or third party assistance do not cover 100% of your fees, you must pay the remaining balance by the appropriate fee payment deadline. You will be notified via your UofM email account when your electronic invoice is availabl e online. You remain responsible for completing the fee payment process by the deadline, even if you do not receive or open your fee invoice, which will be available on your Banner Student Self Service account. Tuition and Fee information is available online . Payments mailed must be received in the Bursar's Office by the appropriate fee payment deadline, regardless of the postmark date on the envelope. Please allow five to seven days fo r processing.