#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/psyc.php
Psychology - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Psychology Psychology FRANK ANDRASIK, PhD Chair Room 202, Psychology Building 901.678.2145 ROBERT COHEN, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies CYNTHIA WALKER Graduate Secretary cywshngt@memphis.edu 901.678.4340 Department Website: I. The Department of Psychology offers PhD programs in Clinical Psychology, Experimental Psychology, and School Psychology, an MA/EdS (non-thesis) program in School Psychology, and an MS (either thesis or non-thesis) program in General Psychology. Students admitted to one of the PhD programs complete the requirements for the MS (with thesis) as part of their PhD requirements. The EdS degree with a major in Education with an area of emphasis in School Psychology is also available (offered collaboratively with the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences). In addition, the MS in General Psychology program may be entered as a terminal program. Admission to each graduate program in Psychology is handled separately. Each has its own admission criteria, and application must be made for a particular program before an applicant is considered for that program. Deadlines for submission of admission materials vary with program: MS/PhD program in Experimental Psychology - January 15; MS/PhD program in School Psychology - February 1; MS/PhD program in Clinical Psychology - December 5; MA and EdS program in School Psychology - June 15; and MS degree program in General Psychology - May 1. Any person admitted to one of these programs who desires to transfer to another program within the department must make formal application to that program and will be evaluated competitively against the same criteria and on the same time schedule as all other applicants for that program. The departmental objective is to educate both experimentally sophisticated professional psychologists and professionally appreciative research psychologists. The department professes a strong research emphasis, with a very diverse array of theoretical models and frames of reference. Awarding a degree does not merely attest to the accumulation of the specified number of hours in the classroom but also to the acquisition of sophisticated professional and research skills. The faculty has the responsibility to both the public and the profession of psychology to award a degree only when the student has achieved a satisfactory level of professional and research competencies as judged by the graduate faculty of the department. Further, students must exhibit high integrity and moral character consistent with the standards of ethical principles set forth by the American Psychological Association and for School Psychology students, standards set forth by the National Association of School Psychologists. For all of the following graduate programs, admission is not automatic by meeting minimal departmental admission requirements. Students are selected from a pool of qualified applicants to each program. Each year the number of students admitted to a program depends on availability of financial aid and adequate faculty supervision. Once admitted, students in these programs can obtain further details by reading the department's Graduate Student Handbook. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MS/PhD Degree Program There are three broad programs within the MS/PhD degree program: Clinical Psychology (APA accredited), School Psychology (APA accredited), and Experimental Psychology. Across these doctoral programs, faculty and students participate in five research areas: Clinical Health Psychology; Behavioral Neuroscience; Child and Family Studies; Cognitive Psychology; and Psychotherapy Research. Students interested in other areas should contact the department for further information. In these programs the MS is preparatory to continuation in the program. In order to be advanced to doctoral study, a student must have satisfactorily completed all requirements for the MS (including a thesis that is empirical and psychological) at The University of Memphis, or have completed an equivalent degree, with empirical thesis, from another institution. Students possessing a master’s degree without a thesis will be required to complete a thesis before being advanced to doctoral study. Across the Ms/PhD degree programs, the general training objectives are: (1) understanding of theoretical principles and practices of psychology; (2) development of expertise in experimental design, data analysis, and oral and written presentation of research results; and (3) being competitive for professional positions in psychology. A. Program Admission and Prerequisites Applications for each of the MS/PhD degree programs are reviewed once each year for admission in the following Fall semester. Applications for Spring admission are not considered. All application information must have been received by December 5 for an applicant to be considered for admission to the MS/PhD program in Clinical Psychology, by January 15 for an applicant to be considered for admission to the MS/PhD program in Experimental Psychology, and by February 1 for an applicant to be considered for admission to the MS/PhD program in the MS/PhD program in School Psychology. The following items are required for admission: : A completed Departmental application form and completed University application form. A grade point average of at least 2.75/4.0 in all undergraduate course work. Applicants with undergraduate records at this minimum level are not ordinarily admitted. An official transcript of all undergraduate and graduate coursework must be sent. A minimum of 18 semester hours in undergraduate psychology courses, including courses in Quantitative Methods (Psychological Statistics), and Experimental Design. Students lacking some or all of these prerequisite courses, but presenting an exceptional undergraduate record, may nevertheless be granted graduate admission. However, students may be asked to remove such deficiencies before or during their first academic year. GRE scores (Verbal, Quantitative, and Written Analytical) Letters of recommendation from at least three persons familiar with the applicant’s academic background and aptitude for graduate work in psychology, specifying in detail the applicant’s capabilities for graduate study and for future performance as a psychologist. A personal statement of 500-1,000 words indicating the specific graduate program area being applied for, and describing the applicant’s prior research and applied experience, current research and applied interests, and career goals. Prior research involvement is weighted heavily. A willingness to be interviewed in person or by phone by members of the department faculty, should that be requested. B. Program Requirements Credit Hours: A minimum of 33 semester hours of graduate credit beyond the bachelor’s degree is required for the MS degree in Psychology, and a minimum of 80 semester hours of graduate credit beyond the bachelor’s degree is required for the PhD degree in Psychology. All work for graduate credit must be approved by, and must be completed at a level of performance satisfactory to, the graduate faculty of the department. Students also may take coursework for degree credit outside the department with program approval. Transfer Credit: Students with graduate credits earned at another institution, upon matriculation at The University of Memphis, may petition to have these credits applied toward the total number of hours required to earn their degree at The University of Memphis. The student can then apply to the department to use transfer credits as substitutes for specific courses required for the degree; decisions about such substitutions are made by the department graduate coordinator. The number of transfer credits accepted as substitutions for specific courses varies by degree program; For example, no more than 12 hours of course credit may be transferred toward a master's or EdS degree. Substitutions are not granted for any of the Clinical Psychology program's core curriculum, listed below under II.B.9.a. Enrollment: MS/ PhD degree candidates are expected to carry a minimum of 9 credits per semester and to devote full time during their enrollment to pursuit of degree-related activities. Research: All MS/PhD degree students are expected to be active in research collaboratively with members of the department faculty each semester they are enrolled. Master’s Thesis and Comprehensive Examination: Each PhD student is expected to complete an independent research project, culminating in a master’s thesis. The thesis is intended to be a demonstration of the student's ability to plan, organize, conduct, and report a research/scholarly project. Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write. Only 3 hours of thesis credit (PSYC 7996) can count toward the degree. Upon completion of the thesis, the student takes an oral examination that assesses not only mastery of the thesis topic but also broader awareness of the theoretical and empirical issues in contemporary psychology. This oral examination serves as the MS comprehensive examination. Second Milestone Project: After completing the requirements of the master's thesis, all PhD students will complete a second milestone, usually in the third year of graduate work. Students in the Clinical Psychology PhD program can satisfy this requirement with a Major Area Paper (MAP) or by any of the following: (a) submit an empirical manuscript for publication, (b) an applied clinical research project (e.g., consultation project or clinical case study) submitted for publication, or (c) submission of a grant with the student as Principal Investigator. Students in the Experimental Psychology PhD program can satisfy this requirement with a Specialty Examination, Major Area Paper (MAP), or submitting an empirical manuscript for publication. School Psychology PhD students must complete a written comprehensive examination to satisfy the Second Milestone requirement. All alternatives require committees (four faculty members), proposal defenses, and final defenses. Comprehensive Educational Requirements: In order that all MS/PhD students obtain comprehensive training in the diverse areas of psychology, the following requirements must be met: All MS/PhD students are required to complete 7301/8301, and 7302/8302(two semesters) during the first two years. With permission of the Major Professor and Graduate Coordinator, students may substitute PSYC 7303/8303 for PSYC 7302/8302 as their required course. Clinical Psychology and School Psychology MS/PhD students are required to complete PSYC 7000/8000. Also, for both semesters in the first year, all MS/PhD students must attend weekly colloquium series to acquaint them with issues of research and professional ethics and research and professional opportunities in the department and in the discipline. All MS/PhD students must complete two additional statistics/quantitative/methodology course from the following list (or a substituted course approved by the student's major professor and the Graduate Coordinator): PSYC 7303/8303, 7304/8304, 7305/8305, 7306/8306, 7307/8307, 7308/8308, 7310/8310, 7311/8311, 7312/8312. All MS/PhD students must complete at least one course in each of the following areas (or a substituted course approved by the student's major professor and the Graduate Coordinator): Biological Bases of Behavior: PSYC 7441/8441, 7701/8701, or 7705/8705. Cognitive-Affective Bases of Behavior: PSYC 7208/8208, 7211/8211, 7222/8222, or 7407/8407. Social Bases of Behavior: 7215/8215, 7217/8217, 7219/8219, or 7220/8220. Individual Behavior: PSYC 7207/8207, 7219/8219, 7412/8412, 7416/8416, 7420/8420, or 7516/8516. For Clinical Psychology and School Psychology Students: Psychometric Theory: PSYC 7304/8304, EDPR 7511/8511, or EDPR 7512/8512. Dissertation and Final Examination: The dissertation is viewed as the capstone of the student's academic training, reflecting the student's capacity for independent research. Dissertation credit hours (PSYC 9000) must be taken for a minimum of 6 hours and can be taken for a maximum of 9 credit hours. Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write. Upon completion of an independent written dissertation research project acceptable to the faculty, each student will take a final oral examination oriented toward, but not exclusively on, the student's dissertation research and major area of specialization. Clinical Psychology: Students in the clinical psychology program must meet these additional requirements: Additional Courses and Activities — PSYC 7407/8407, 7412/8412, 7428/8428, 7430/8430, 7432/8432, 7435/8435, 7705/8705,8707 and 6 credit hours of PSYC 7434/8434 (two courses of 3 hours credit each,one course must focus on therapy with diverse populations). As part of their clinical training, students must also participate in the activities of the Psychological Services Center. To fulfill this requirement, students enroll in 7438/8438 for a minimum of 6 semesters. During their time in the graduate program, clinical psychology students receiving department funding may be placed on a department assistantship, grant-funded assistantship, or clinical agency placement. The student is required to complete a minimum of 12 months of 20 hours per week (or the equivalent) in a clinical placement before graduation (i.e., 10 hours per week over 24 months). Students are also required to complete a minimum of 12 months of 20 hours per week in a research assistantship after their first year in the doctoral program. The research assistantship may be served in a community research facility or in the psychology department. Research Area Course Requirements: In addition to the general clinical requirements, clinical psychology program students in the following Research Areas must complete the courses listed below Clinical Psychology students in the Clinical Health Research area must complete two of the following courses: 7440/8440, 7441/8441, or sections of PSYC 7434/8434 focused on cognitive-behavior therapy, clinical health psychology (e.g., therapy with medical patients, changing health risk behaviors, and pediatric psychology). Further, a major portion of clinical practica, the master's thesis, the doctoral dissertation, and the internship must pertain to clinical health. Clinical Psychology students in the Child and Family Studies Research area must complete PSYC 7416/8416, a section of 7434/8434 focused on children, adolescents, or families, and one other course focused on children or families (e.g., PSYC 7207/8207, 7219/8219, 7701/8701, 7705/8705, 7808/8808. They must also attend the Child and Family Colloquium. A major portion of practicum work must involve children, and the master’s thesis and doctoral dissertation must pertain to children or families. Clinical Psychology students in the Psychotherapy Research area must also complete PSYC 7516/8516. In addition, students must complete a third section of PSYC 7438/8438 and the student’s specialty exam and dissertation must relate to psychotherapy. Clinical Internship: A full-time one-year internship, in an agency approved by the director of training in clinical psychology, is required. Permission from the clinical faculty must be secured before making application for internship. To be approved, the clinical faculty must judge the student to be academically and clinically ready for the internship. In addition, the student must have successfully defended the specialty exam or MAP by July 31 and the dissertation proposal by September 30 of the year in which they are applying for internship. School Psychology: Students in the School Psychology doctoral program must meet these additional requirements: Additional Courses: Students must complete PSYC 7416/8416, 7800/8800, 7802/8802, 7803/8803, 7804/8804, 7805/8805, 7806/8806, and RDNG 7542/8542, COUN 7750/8750 or PSYC 7434/8434 (Clinical Psychotherapies: Appreciating Our Differences), LEAD 6000, EDPR 7151/8151, and SPED 7000/8000. Subspecialization: Students must complete up to 12 hours of elective courses in an area of subspecialization determined in consultation with the major professor. Practica: Students must complete PSYC 7614/8614 (6 hours) and PSYC 8809 (6 hours) while in practicum placements. Internship: Students must complete PSYC 8999 (6 hours) while engaged in a full-time, one-year internship in an agency approved by the program director. Permission must be secured before making application for internship. To be approved, the school psychology faculty must judge the student to be academically and clinically ready for the internship. Students must successfully defend the dissertation proposal by the end of the spring semester of the year in which they intend to go on internship. III. MA and EdS Degree Program in School Psychology This program is offered collaboratively with the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences, and coursework from both areas is required. Students entering the program must complete both the MA and the EdS degrees, including an internship of one school year, in order to obtain an endorsement for licensure. The EdS degree is an advanced sequence in the specialty and is to be pursued only by persons who have completed the MA degree or comparable degree with a concentration in school psychology, or who already hold school psychology credentials. The program is part of the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences, accredited by the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation (CAEP), and holds full approval from the National Association of School Psychologists (NASP)/CAEP; it is also formally approved by the Tennessee State Department of Education and leads to that agency’s license in school psychology. Program objectives are: (1) understanding of the nature of educational settings and ability to work cooperatively and effectively with parents, school personnel, and other professionals; (2) broad expertise in assessment and intervention at the individual, group, and system level; and (3) development of research and evaluation skills, including data analysis and oral and written communication of research. A. Program Admission and Prerequisites All application information must have been received by June 15 for an applciant to be considered for admission to the MA and EdS program in School Psychology.The following items are required for consideration for admission: An undergraduate overall grade point average of 3.00/4.00. Applicants with an undergraduate GPA below this minimal level are admitted only if other supporting data are exceptional. GRE scores (Verbal, Quantitative, and Written Analytical). Letters of recommendation from at least three persons (professional educators, psychologists, and/or employers) familiar with the applicant’s academic background, aptitude for graduate work in school psychology, and interest in working with school-age children in school settings. Undergraduate preparation in Psychology and/or Education. It is strongly recommended that applicants have at least 18 undergraduate hours in Psychology and/or Education, with preparation in the psychology of learning, psychological appraisal/measurement, human growth and development, and foundations of education. Those admitted must take a minimum of 9 hours each semester, unless permitted by the program director to take fewer hours. B. Program Requirements—MA Degree (37 credits) Psychology courses (22 hours): PSYC 7800, PSYC 7207, PSYC 7802,PSYC 7803, PSYC 7804, PSYC 7805, and PSYC 7806. Education courses (15 hours): EDPR 7151, EDPR 7511, and EDPR 7541; LEAD 6000; and SPED 7000 (or SPED elective if characteristics of exceptional children course was taken at the undergraduate level). Written and oral examinations. Participation in service experiences in the Psychological Services Center or other agency placements for training purposes. C. Program Requirements—EdS Degree (30 credits) Psychology courses (9 hours): PSYC 7614 (6 hours), and PSYC 7301 or research elective. Education courses (9 hours): EDPR 7112, RDNG 7541, and COUN 7542. School Psychology Internship (PSYC 8812, 12 hours) is taken at or near the completion of other work. Written examination. IV. MS Degree Program in General Psychology A. Program Admission and Prerequisites All application information must have been received by May 1 for a candidate to be considered for admission to the MS degree program in General Psychology. The following items are required for consideration for admission: An undergraduate grade point average of 2.5/4.0 is required for admission without special permission. GRE scores (Verbal, Quantitative, and Written Analytical). Letters of recommendation from at least three persons familiar with the applicant’s academic background and aptitude for graduate work in Psychology. It is strongly recommended that applicants have 12 undergraduate hours in psychology, including a course in statistics. Applications to the MS in General Psychology program are considered once a year, to make decisions about enrollment for the following fall semester. B. Program Requirements Admission to the MS in General Psychology program does not require a student to take any minimum number of credits per semester. The only constraint upon the pace at which the student pursues the degree is that credits more than six years old may not be counted toward the degree. All students in the MS in General Psychology program must be in good academic standing at the end of 15 credit hours of graduate work in order to continue in the program. PSYC 7301 or equivalent PSYC 7302 or equivalent At least two of the following: PSYC 7000, PSYC 7207, PSYC 7217, PSYC 7219, PSYC 7222, PSYC 7412, PSYC 7416, PSYC 7435, PSYC 7440, PSYC 7701, and PSYC 7800 During the first year in the program, it is expected that the student will, in consultation with the program director or major professor, have decided on goals and objectives for the remainder of the course of study. Courses that fit these goals and objectives may be in Psychology or other departments in the university. Students who are not in good academic standing at this time must institute an appeal with supporting letters to the program director and the MS in General Psychology committee for consideration of continuance in the program. Such cases will be considered on an individual basis. Also, for both semesters in the first year, all MS in General Psychology students must attend weekly colloquium series to acquaint them with issues of research and professional ethics and research and professional opportunities in the department and in the discipline. A total approved program of 33 credit hours if the student elects to do a thesis, or 36 credit hours without a thesis. Students electing to write a thesis should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before beginning to write. For students not conducting a thesis, a specialty review and defense covering the student’s area(s) of focus will be completed during the last semester in the program. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .