#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/news/
Alumni News - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About News E-News Magazine Update Info Class Notes University News Home UMAA News Year of Service The year may be coming to a close but there's still time to log your hours for the Inaugural Year of Service. Learn how your service hours may provide scholarships for students! Alumni Association on Social Media We want to keep in touch! Follow us on social media. University News Stay up-to-date on student and faculty accomplishments, college updates and upcoming events. Lambuth Campus Update The spirit of Lambuth lives on! Learn more about initiatives and events on the campus. Club and Chapter News Mark your calendar for these upcoming Alumni Association events including: Holiday Parties, True Blue Tailgate and more! Alumni Spotlight Meet CAS alumna &amp; UofM Association of Retirees member, Susanne Darnell Benefit Spotlight Association Members: Take advantage of this deal from The Bartlett Soap Company - Just in time for the holidays! we are thankful for our members We are THANKFUL for our MEMBERS! It is because of our True Blue members that the UofM Alumni Association has continued to grow, allowing us to continue our mission of reconnecting and engaging alumni. Our members promote the welfare of the UofM and serve the interests of alumni and friends – allowing the Alumni Association to continue offering valuable, Tiger-focused programs and services. From educational events and athletic excursions to chapter gatherings and advocacy efforts, your membership helps to make it all possible. Your membership is also a vote for the value of a UofM education! U.S. News &amp; World Report looks at alumni engagement as one of several measures of quality used to rank major universities in the United States. Our members help increase the UofM's prestige, which in turn, increases the value of your degree. In addition, a portion of membership fees benefits our scholarship fund. The Alumni Association awards 12 scholarships annually to deserving students, as well as 11 awards to our Distinguished Teaching, Advising and Research Award recipients. Not a member? The best way to strengthen your proud alma mater is to join your Alumni Association! Membership has its privileges! The University of Memphis Alumni Association offers several benefits and discounts that are available only to our members, both in the Memphis-area and nationally. Discounts are available at Tiger Bookstore, the University Bookstore, Campus Rec Center and more! In addition, members will be able to take advantage of the "Email365" program and retain their @memphis.edu email account. Click here to view all of the Alumni Association membership benefits. Joining is easy! We offer a wide range of membership options to fit your needs, interests and budget. Membership is also tax deductible. Choose a membership option below to join online today: Join as a new annual member Renew your annual membership Three Year Membership Upgrade to Life Member Current Students - Join the FAM Kids - Join Pouncer's Pals Join the University of Memphis Association of Retirees (UMAR) Join the Alumni Association and Tiger Scholarship Fund Give the gift of membership Year of service Doing anything special for others this holiday season? Don't forget to log those hours under the Year of Service Initiative! In honor of Dr. M. David Rudd's inaugural year as President, he has challenged the campus community, student organizations and alumni to engage in service projects, focusing on the opportunity to give back to our community. The goal of the Year of Service is to provide 500,000 combined hours of service to Memphis, Jackson, Tenn., and surrounding communities by the end of the fall semester. Have you donated blood? Served at the soup kitchen? Tutored someone? These things and so many more count towards the Year of Service! In conjunction with the Year of Service initiative, the University of Memphis has established a matching goal to secure at least $500,000 in need-based scholarships so that it can assist the brightest students, including those with financial need. Scholarships may be directed to any college, school or department and may carry a person's name, the name of an individual to honor or remember, or the name of a business or organization. Click here to log your service hours. follow the Alumni association on social media Get instant University updates, participate in contests, view photos from events and more! Facebook Twitter Instagram University News UofM Named to List of 2016 Military Friendly Schools Victory Media, originator of the Military Friendly group of education and career resources for veterans and their families, has included the University of Memphis on its Military Friendly Schools list for 2016. The list honors the top colleges, universities and trade schools that are doing the most to embrace military service members and veterans as students and ensure their success on campus. Read the full story here . UofM's Egyptian Institute Will Host Nov. 17 Lecture on Egyptology in Nazi Germany The Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology and the Department of History at the University of Memphis, in association with the Tennessee Chapter of the American Research Center in Egypt, will co-host 10th annual William J. Murnane Memorial Lecture on Tuesday, Nov. 17, in the University Center Fountain View Suite (room 350). Dr. Thomas Schneider, professor of Egyptology and Near Eastern Studies at the University of British Columbia, will present at 7 p.m. A reception will precede the lecture at 6:15 pm. Read the full story here . UofM's CfIA Will Develop Course for Mobile Device Security and Privacy Issues The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded a 2015 Continuing Training Grant of $3 million for cyber security training to the National Cybersecurity Preparedness Consortium (NCPC). The project will be led by the University of Arkansas Criminal Justice Institute; the University of Memphis Center for Information Assurance (CfIA) will collaborate on the project as a core member of the consortium. This Homeland Security National Training Program (HSNTP) will provide FEMA-certified training to first responders, emergency managers, technical specialists and local government and community leaders, preparing them for all types of cyber emergencies. The University of Memphis is at the forefront of information security research, education and outreach in the region, according to Dr. Dipankar Dasgupta, founding director of CfIA, which is a National Center for Academic Excellence in Information Assurance. "The center will receive $474,000 from the consortium, and though this grant we will be developing an online training course on mobile device security and privacy issues. The course will make it safer for everyone browsing the Internet," he said. The 36-month program focuses on four areas: cyber security, hazardous materials, countering violent extremism and rural preparedness. Rural preparedness includes school-based incidents, mass fatality planning and response, the development of emergency operation plans, rail car safety, media engagement strategies for first responders, agro-terrorism, food and animal safety, and hazardous materials. NIH Grant Will Fund Study On Early Identification of Autism Researchers at the University of Memphis have received a $3.2 million grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders for the study Early Vocal Development and Prediction of Autism. The project is a collaboration with Emory University and the Marcus Autism Center in Atlanta. The five-year study will address vocal development in the first year of life of infants who have siblings with autism. The goal is to search for early signs of vocal development gone awry, a possible indicator of emerging autism or other developmental disabilities. Dr. D. Kimbrough "Kim" Oller, professor and holder of the Plough Chair of Excellence in the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders, is the principal investigator at the UofM, and Dr. Eugene Buder, associate professor of Communication Sciences and Disorders, is co-principal investigator. Dr. Gordon Ramsay is the principal investigator at the Marcus Autism Center. "Gordon Ramsay is a world leader in using infant eye movement to generate early predictions of autism, and a world innovator in acoustic analysis of speech and speech-like sounds," said Dr. Andy Meyers, interim vice president for Research and executive director of the University of Memphis Research Foundation. "With Kim adding Ramsay's expertise to his own work on infant vocalization to predict autism, we think this moves him into the very top echelon of researchers working in the area of early identification of autism." lambuth campus update UofM Lambuth Center for Community Criminology Research The Center for Community Criminology Research (CCCR) at the University of Memphis Lambuth opened with a ribbon cutting Monday, Nov. 9, at 2 p.m. in the Wisdom Parlor in Varnell-Jones Hall. The CCCR's mission is to serve as a resource for the community by addressing issues of crime and delinquency, according to Dr. K.B. Turner, chair of Criminology and Criminal Justice. The Center will serve as a clearinghouse for the distribution of information to those interested in reducing crime. Additionally, the CCCR will provide professional development for criminal justice professionals that will allow them to be more effective in their responsibilities. Read more Thank you to all alumni and friends who "Came Back Home" to Lambuth True Blue Day 2015 on October 24. The Gym was rededicated to Charles "Pepper" Bray. View Photos Club &amp; Chapter News True Blue Tailgate Mark your calendars for the final regular season True Blue Tailgate on Saturday, November 28, 9:00 am. (Game kick-off: 11:00 am.) Tailgate is $8 for members and $10 for non-members. For more information, contact alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.2586. UMAR Join UMAR for a Holiday Brunch and Silent Auction on Tuesday, December 8 , in the University Center River Room . The Silent Auction will begin at 9:00 am. Brunch will be held from 10:00 am - 12:00 noon. Tickets are $20 per person. To donate items for the Silent Auction or to RSVP, contact semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043. Memphis Ring 2015 Recipients of the Memphis Ring, The UofM Alumni Association cordially invites you and your guests to the Official Memphis Ring Presentation Ceremony on Friday, December 11, at 6:00 pm in the UC Fountain View Room . Attire is Tiger Blue Business Casual. Reception to Follow. For more information, contact alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.2586. Lambuth Alumni Thank you to all alumni and friends who "Came Back Home" to Lambuth True Blue Day 2015 on October 24. The Gym was rededicated to Charles "Pepper" Bray. View Photos Memphis Pom Alumni Chapter The Memphis Pom Alumni Chapter held the Inaugural Memphis Pom Legacy Dance Competition on Saturday, October 24. View Photos To learn more about the Memphis Pom Alumni Chapter, contact m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461 Student Ambassador Board The Student Ambassador Board took the community back in time at the first-ever Blue Lantern Tour on Friday, October 30, on the UofM Campus. This event featured lantern-lit tours around the campus. Guests had the opportunity to "meet" President Mynders and his ghostly daughter, the Memphis State 8, Elma Roane and many others. View Photos For more information about SAB, contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Pouncer's Pals Many of our Pouncer's Pals trick-or-treated with Pouncer at the Blue Lantern Tour on Friday, October 30, on the UofM campus where they learned about the mysteries and characters that make up our campus history. View Photos The Annual Pouncer's Pals Walk Around the Field was held at the Homecoming Game on Saturday, November 7. View Photos Calling all Tiger fans, ages 0-12! Pouncer's Pals is an exclusive club designed for little Tiger fans. Click here to learn more and sign your children up today! Members receive quarterly activity packets and exclusive events. For more information contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. Young Alumni Young Alumni held its 9th Annual Young Alumni True Blue 5k on Sunday, November 1, on the UofM campus. View Photos For more information on Young Alumni, contact m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461 . Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law Alumni Chapter The Law Alumni Chapter hosted Judicial Reception honoring the 2015 Graduates of the School of Law and the Federal, State, and Local Judiciaries on Wednesday, November 4. View Photos For more information on the Law Alumni Chapter, contact m.carrier@memphis.edu or 901.678.2461. Fogelman College of Business and Economics Alumni Chapter FCBE Alumni Day was held on Wednesday, November 4, at which the chapter honored the following: Outstanding Young Alumnus Brett Norman (IMBA '05) | CEO/Founder AgSmarts, Inc. Outstanding Alumnus David Wedaman (BBA '80) | Chairman and CEO, ReTrans, Inc. Distinguished Friend of the College Charles McVean | Chairman and CEO, McVean Trading &amp; Investments, LLC with Keynote Speaker Donald E. Godwin (MS '70) | Trial Lawyer, former Lead Counsel for Halliburton View Photos For more information on the FCBE Alumni Chapter, contact semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043. Half Century The Class of 1965 was inducted into the Half Century Club on Wednesday, November 4, at the Golden Homecoming Reception. View Photos Homecoming 2015 Thank you to everyone who came to support Homecoming ! We had a great time at the parade, tailgate and game. View Photos Tiger Troops Tiger Troops and The Student Ambassador Board held several Veterans Day activities on Wednesday, November 11. A panel of Veteran guest speakers spoke about their war experiences, and the UofM ROTC lead the Veterans Day March. An Honor Wall with 5,000 hand-written notes of gratitude to our active troops were displayed on the Alumni Mall. Following the Veterans Day activities, these postcards were taken down and mailed to active troops, veterans and wounded warriors. As part of Veterans Day, Tiger Troops will also be collecting items for the "Tiger Gear for Tiger Troops" service drive. For more information regarding Veterans Day or Tiger Troops, please contact jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119 Hispanic Alumni Council Please continue to support the HAC Scholarship Fund! Click here to learn more and donate. Alumni Spotlight Dr. Susanne Benson Darnell Susanne Benson Darnell retired from the University of Memphis in 2002 after serving for three years as interim dean of University College. Her career at the University was spread over 31 years. In 1957, she earned a BA in English at Agnes Scott College. She studied Spanish in Costa Rica, and, with her husband, served as a missionary with an ecumenical mission in the Andes of Ecuador for seven years. Her three children were born in Quito. After returning to Memphis, she enrolled at Memphis State University and earned an MA in sociology in 1970. Darnell was asked to serve on a faculty committee to design a non-traditional college for the University. University College was the result of the year-long work of that committee, chaired by Dr. Richard Ranta, now dean of CCFA. When University College received its first students in the fall of 1975, Darnell began 27 years of service on the academic staff of the college. During those years, Darnell had the pleasure of working with faculty and staff from across the colleges and departments of the university to design and offer interdisciplinary courses and degree programs. The interdisciplinary majors were shaped to meet the individual needs of students who were non-traditional in their interests. They were able to shape their studies to build on work experience and meet their goals. In addition, University College served as an incubator of new degree programs for the university at large. In 1981, Darnell attained a personal goal and received her Ph.D. from Union Institute, Cincinnati, Ohio. Reflecting on her career at the University of Memphis gives Darnell a deep sense of gratitude. She is pleased to have been able to endow a scholarship in University College in memory of her mother, Anibel Yancey Benson. Mrs. Benson received a teaching certificate from West Tennessee State Normal in 1921 and returned to Memphis State College to finish her bachelor's degree in 1957, the same year her daughter graduated from college. Darnell has also endowed a scholarship in the Herff College of Engineering in memory of her father, D.C. Benson, who was superintendent of gas distribution at MLG&amp;W for many years. Since retiring, she has been involved with Calvary Episcopal Church and the University of Memphis Association of Retirees (UMAR). She enjoys spending time with other UofM retirees at different UMAR events such as: dinners, theater events, lunches, book club and community trips. She served a term as UMAR president. Darnell states that the support which the Alumni Association provides for UMAR has been invaluable, and she strives to find ways to encourage all of our retirees to join UMAR. Join Darnell at the upcoming UMAR Holiday Brunch &amp; Silent Auction on Tuesday, December 8! Click here for more information. benefit spotlight The Bartlett Soap Company The Alumni Association is proud to present our newest benefit partner, the Bartlett Soap Company, owned by alumni Brad Kellum (BLS '11) and Shelby Yardley (BBA '14). Receive 10% off your entire purchase in store with your UofM Alumni Association Membership card. Located at 6269 E Stage Plaza, Bartlett, TN 38134. Stay tuned for the opening of their second location, in Olive Branch, MS this Spring! UofM Alumni Association members receive great discounts and benefits year round. View a list of membership benefits here . For more information contact the Alumni Association at alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.ALUM. Join Now Stay connected to your alma mater! Join the Alumni Association! Click here to learn more. News E-News Magazine Update Info Class Notes University News Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/17/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .