#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/gradfac_table.php
Graduate Faculty Status Roles and Criteria - Graduate School - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate School Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Programs Events Resources Faculty and Staff Curricular Procedures Curricular Revision Forms TBR Academic Program Proposal Policies TBR Academic Program Proposal Guidelines TBR Academic Program Proposal Forms Graduate School Calendar Graduate School Forms Graduate School Contact Information Home Graduate School Faculty/Staff Graduate Faculty Status Roles and Criteria Summary of Roles and Criteria for Graduate Faculty Status Status/Eligibility Roles Minimum Criteria (Initial) Minimum Criteria (Renewal) Term Full Available to tenured and tenure-track faculty, faculty in the Post-Retirement Program, and visiting professors. May teach 7000/8000 courses. May chair masters and dissertation committees. May chair committees in other programs at that program's discretion. May vote on graduate issues. May serve on UCGS. Terminal degree At least 6 peer-reviewed works in nationally recognized outlets in preceding 6 years (or equivalent). Ability to teach advanced graduate courses. Evidence of continued pattern of scholarly or creative activity of the quality expected for initial membership. 6 years, or duration of their appointment for visiting professors or faculty in the Post-Retirement Program Associate Available to tenured and tenure-track faculty, faculty in the Post-Retirement Program, and visiting professors. May teach 7000/8000 courses. May chair masters committees. May chair masters committees in other programs at that program's discretion. May serve on doctoral committees. May vote on graduate issues. May serve on UCGS. Potential for scholarship Terminal degree within previous 2 years, or appointed to tenure-track position within previous 2 years, or at least 3 publications. Evidence of scholarship through publication in nationally recognized, refereed outlets or equivalents 6 years, or duration of their appointment for visiting professors or faculty in the Post-Retirement Program Affiliate Available to U of M non-tenure track faculty, research appointees or employees, and individuals with a formal non-employment affiliation with a U of M academic department or program. May supervise graduate students in clinical or similar situations. May teach select 7000- 8000 courses with both program and college approvals. May serve on masters and doctoral committees, but may not chair them. May NOT serve on UCGS. Post-graduate or professional credentials Participation as practitioner in scholarly, service, and/or creative activities same as initial 3 years Adjunct Available to those with terminal degrees who are NOT employed at U of M as full-time faculty. May teach 7000-8000 course in areas of expertise. May serve on masters and doctoral committees, but may not chair them. May NOT serve on UCGS. Terminal degree Evidence of professional activity, relevant expertise, or significant achievement in relevant field of study. same as initial 3 years Adjunct Research Co-Mentor Available to those with terminal degrees who are NOT employed at the U of M as full-time faculty. May co-chair a specific thesis or dissertation committee May NOT serve on UCGS. Terminal degree Publications/presentations/ scholarly activity in nationally recognized outlets (or equivalent) in preceding 6 years. Same as initial. Department must resubmit recommendation to co-chair each student committee Duration of committee appointment Adjunct-Teaching Part or full time, non-tenure track U of M teaching faculty or other U of M employees. May teach graduate courses as indicated in application. Masters degree Evidence of relevant expertise. same as initial 3 years NOTES: Persons who do not hold graduate faculty status but who have special expertise relevant to a particular student's topic may serve as an external member of a committee upon recommendation of department and approval of the College Director of Graduate Studies and the Dean of Graduate Programs. Determination of whether such an external member is a voting member is made by the appropriate academic unit with the approval of the College Director of Graduate Studies. Only one external member is allowed on a committee. When instructors who are not members of the graduate faculty teach graduate only course work, except for the Applied Music program, the head of the appropriate academic unit will notify the Dean of Graduate Programs and provide documentation of their special qualifications to teach the course. Faculty and Staff Curricular Procedures Curricular Revision Forms TBR Academic Program Proposal Policies TBR Academic Program Proposal Guidelines TBR Academic Program Proposal Forms Graduate School Calendar Graduate School Forms Graduate School Contact Information Get More Information Request information about a specific program of interest. Graduate Catalog Learn more about our programs. Apply Now Submit your application today. Support Graduate Education Your gifts make a difference! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .