#http://www.memphis.edu/architecture/programs/
Degree Programs - Department of Architecture - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Architecture About Programs Community Engagement Faculty + Staff Alumni Home Department of Architecture Programs Degree Programs At the University of Memphis, the study of architecture and interior design encompasses both the art and science of design. The focus is on the education of the individual student through a well-rounded approach in a sequence of foundation courses, design studios, and professional/technical courses. The program of study for each degree program is structured to engage students in the processes and professional standards of design and technology necessary for shaping the built environment. Students are placed at the center of discovery-based studies, and required to assume responsible participation in the study of architecture and interior design. Master of Architecture The Master of Architecture is a professional degree fully accredited by the National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB) and meets the education requirements for registration as an architect. Please visit the page on accreditation for more information. Master of Architecture Information Master of Architecture Courses Bachelor of Fine Arts in Architecture The BFA in Architecture is a pre-professional degree. Together the four-year BFA and the two-year M.Arch make up the professional "4+2" sequence. BFA in Architecture Information BFA in Architecture Courses Bachelor of Fine Arts in Interior Design The BFA in Interior Design is fully accredited by the Council for Interior Design Accreditation. BFA in Interior Design Information BFA in Interior Design Courses Special Note on Course Sequencing and Pre-Requisites/Co-Requisites Courses in the Department of Architecture are generally offered only in one semester per academic year. Most courses have pre-requisites or co-requisites. Virtually all courses are open only to students majoring in architecture and/or interior design. For the semester in which each course is offered, please see below. Fall Semester Courses ARCH 7930, Architectural Thesis Research ARCH 7713, Advanced Architectural Design Studio 3 ARCH 7711, Advanced Architectural Design Studio 1 ARCH 7211, Contemporary Architectural Theory ARCH 7013, Advanced Architectural Design Seminar 3 ARCH 7011, Advanced Architectural Design Seminar 1 ARCH 6231, Issues in City Building (open to non-majors) ARCH 4715, Architectural Design Studio 5* ARCH 4441, Construction Documents* ARCH 4231, Issues in City Building (open to non-majors) ARCH 3713, Architectural Design Studio 3* ARCH 3421, Environmental Systems* ARCH 3321, Structural Design 1 ARCH 3221, Determinants of Modern Design ARCH 2711, Architectural Design Studio 1* ARCH 2611, Computer Applications in Design 1* ARCH 2411, Building Technology 1 ARCH 2212, History of Architecture 2* ARCH 1120, Introduction to Architecture + Design* ARCH 1112, Architectural Graphics Studio* IDES 4430, Interior Design Internship (may be offered in spring and summer) IDES 3221, Human Factors in Interior Design IDES 2470, Components of Interiors IDES 1110, Color + Composition Spring Semester Courses ARCH 7996, Architectural Thesis Studio ARCH 7712, Advanced Architectural Design Studio 2 ARCH 7431, Advanced Professional Practice ARCH 7421, Advanced Environmental Systems ARCH 7012, Advanced Architectural Design Seminar 2 ARCH 6421, Sustainable Design (open to non-majors) ARCH 4716, Architectural Design Studio 6* ARCH 4421, Sustainable Design* (open to non-majors) ARCH 3714, Architectural Design Studio 4* ARCH 3322, Structural Design 2 ARCH 3222, Contemporary Architecture 1 ARCH 2712, Architectural Design Studio 2* ARCH 2612, Computer Applications in Design 2* ARCH 2412, Building Technology 2 ARCH 1211, History of Architecture 1* ARCH 1113, Design Visualization Studio* ARCH 1111, Fundamentals of Design Studio* IDES 3430, Interior Design Business Practices IDES 3213, Survey of Interiors + Furniture IDES 2411, Lighting the Built Environment *ARCH-prefix courses required for the BFA in Interior Design degree Summer Courses Please contact Professor Michael Hagge for details on courses offered in the summer. Elective Courses Please contact Professor Sherry Bryan for details on elective courses. Resources Portfolio Requirements, Policies and Procedures, Scholarships, Awards, Students Organizations, Advising, Professional Registration News + Events Gallery Accreditation Architecture, Interior Design, Links, Reports Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .