#http://www.memphis.edu/efiles/
E-Files November 2, 2015 - E-Files - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Arts &amp; Sciences E-Files Newsletter Headlines Announcements Kudos College Events Department Seminars Home E-Files November 6, 2015 - Headlines "Envisioning A Cleaner, Healthier Environment: A Grassroots Community Conference" The University of Memphis, the Sierra Club Environmental Justice Program, the Tennessee Chapter and the Chickasaw Group of the Sierra Club are joining together for the second year to present "Envisioning A Cleaner, Healthier Environment: A Grassroots Community Conference" on Saturday, November 7 at 8:30a.m. in the University of Memphis University Center. Press Release Hooks Institute presents Pulitzer Prize-Winning Author Douglas Blackmon will give a lecture on his Pulitzer Prize-winning book, Slavery by Another Name: The Re-Enslavement of Black Americans from the Civil War to World War II. The lecture on Thursday, Nov. 10 at 5:30 p.m. in Michael D. Rose Theatre will be followed by a book signing. Read More UofM Lambuth Will Open Center for Community Criminology Research The Center for Community Criminology Research (CCCR) at the University of Memphis Lambuth will open with a ribbon cutting Monday, Nov. 9, at 2 p.m. in the Wisdom Parlor in Varnell-Jones Hall. The CCCR's mission is to serve as a resource for the community by addressing issues of crime and delinquency, according to Dr. K.B. Turner , chair of Criminology and Criminal Justice. Read More Professors Uncover Possible Ice Age "Social Networks" With Park Service Grant Ancient Ice Age American artifacts shed light on how people may have lived 10,000 years ago. University of Memphis professors Ryan Parish , David Dye and Ying Sing Li used funding from the National Center for Preservation Technology and Training (NCPTT), a program of the National Park Service, to analyze stone spear points from central Tennessee. Learn More UofM Participating in the Alternative Credit Project Course The American Council on Education (ACE) today announced the pool of courses selected as part of ACE's Alternative Credit Project,™ a groundbreaking initiative to boost the ability of millions of nontraditional learners to gain a college degree. Press Release UofM Study Shows Brief Therapy Reduces Alcohol-Impaired Driving Treatments developed in the University of Memphis Department of Psychology have been shown to reduce alcohol-impaired driving among young adults. Press Release Department News Find out about fascinating research, upcoming events, speaker presentations, awards and more. Check out the list of Department Newsletters, Social Media and Blogs from the College of Arts &amp; Sciences. Accolades Learn more about the exciting research, engaged scholarship and world-class faculty in the College of Arts and Sciences. College of Arts and Sciences E-Files is the online news source for the College of Arts and Sciences. Visit the college website for more information on programs and degrees. Coloring Books The "Learning about the Indians of Chucalissa" coloring book an excellent educational resource that describes the history of Chucalissa. Come pick one up! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/6/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .