#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/services/req_non_trad.php
Non-Traditional Freshman Admission Requirements - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Services to Students Non-Traditional Freshman Admission Requirements Non-Traditional Freshman Admission Requirements GED Applicants (under the age of 21) Students who have successfully completed the General Education Development (GED) Test must have official scores sent to the Office of Admissions. GED applicants who apply for admission will be reviewed by the standing internal admissions committee. GED applicants (under 21 years of age) must take the national ACT exam or the ACT residual exam (ACT exams used for admission must be less than 3 years old). The minimum GED score that will be considered is 450 (or 45 on exams prior to the revision). GED applicants must submit a statement of academic and career goals. Emphasis should be placed on experiences that the applicant has had since leaving high school that they believe will make them a successful college student (e.g. military, successful vocational training, etc.). Homeschooled Applicants Graduates of home schools must comply with state law by submitting proof of registration with the local education agency which the child would otherwise attend. This documentation must be submitted in addition to the high school transcript. The score report of the American College Testing program (ACT) or the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT): The score report is a necessary part of the application and the test date should be no more than three years old at the time of enrollment. Applicants who are offered admission with the enhanced ACT English, reading or math subscores less than 19, or the equivalent on the former ACT, will be required to take special basic/developmental courses to develop academic competencies necessary for success in college level courses. Students without valid ACT/SAT scores and without college level credit in math or English will be required to take the COMPASS test in the appropriate areas. Students who feel they have been misplaced by their ACT/SAT scores are encouraged to take the COMPASS test, which can place them in a higher level course. (See Transitional Academic Studies program description in the Independent Programs section of the Undergraduate Catalog for more details.) Early Admission Applicants Academically outstanding high school juniors who have completed three academic years of high school, accumulating at least 14 units of coursework may be considered for early admission if they have the following: 1. A minimum high school cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.5 on a 4.00 scale. 2. A minimum ACT composite score of 26 on the ACT or the equivalent on the former ACT. 3. Written recommendations from high school principal and guidance counselor. 4. An interview with U of M faculty/staff committee selecting early admission students. In addition, they must agree to enroll in freshman English, and, unless successfully completed in high school, courses in American history and economics. NOTE: Early admission applicants should also check with their high school for specific graduation requirements. 21+ First-time Freshman Applicants (21 years of age or older with a high school diploma or GED) Student applicants 21 years old or older who apply for admission will be reviewed by the standing internal admissions committee. All student applicants, in this category, must take the COMPASS exam; or the national ACT exam; or the residual ACT exam (ACT exams used for admission must be less than 3 years old). The minimum GED score that will be considered is 450 (or 45 on exams prior to the revision). Applicants must also submit a statement of academic and career goals. Emphasis should be placed on experiences that the applicant has had since leaving high school that they believe will make them a successful college student (e.g. military, successful vocational training, etc.). Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .