#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/Univ_college/law.php
Law - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Law Law Enforcement Administration Advising guidelines for the Bachelor of Professional Studies (B.P.S.) degree with a concentration in Law Enforcement Administration are designed for experienced law enforcement professionals who wish to further their careers by completing a program of study designed to increase their skills in management, organizational relations, and communication; their knowledge of the contexts within which law enforcement administration fits; their understanding of workplace issues that can affect productivity; and their ability to manage diversity in the workforce. In most cases, candidates for this degree program will be active duty or retired law enforcement officers at the municipal, county, or state levels, though military police and, in certain circumstances, those whose experience is in private security are eligible as well. Program Summary A. General Education (35-41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. Students who have completed one year of American History in high school are exempted from the six credit-hour History General Education Program requirement; otherwise, students will have to meet the History requirement. B. Coordinated Study (58 Hours) Pre assessed credit (10 hours) A minimum of 10 hours of pre assessed experiential learning work from a POST certified training academy or Military MP training will be accepted with proper documentation. The 10 hours will be applied to the Coordinated Study. Organization and Administration Required Core (12 hours) ACCT 2010 Fundamentals of Accounting CJUS 4126 Criminal Justice Administration and Management OR MGMT 3110 Organization and Management OR POLS 3601 Public Administration OR TECH 4381 Principles of Supervision JOUR 3400 Introduction to Public Relations* MGMT 3215 Management of Human Resources *CJ 372 Mass Media and the Police, taken at the FBI National Academy and transferred from The University of Virginia, will be accepted in place of this course. Team Work and Organizational Relations (Select two courses) – (6 hours) COMM 3342 Communication and Leadership COMM 4011 Communication in Organizations COUN 4621 Human Interactions COUN 4781 Strategies for Crisis Intervention LEGL 3482 Labor Law MGMT 4420 Organizational Behavior in Business Written Communication (Select one course) – (3 hours) ENGL 3601 Technical and Professional Writing ENGL 3604 Persuasive Writing MGMT 3510 Business Communication Decision-Making (Select one course from Group A and one from Group B ) – (6 hours) Group A CJUS 3129 Statistical Methods in Criminal Justice POLS 4101 Political Statistics SOCI 3311 Social Statistics Group B CJA 3230 Police Organization and Administration (this course offered online only) CJUS 3130 Research Methods in Criminal Justice* SOCI 3322 Methods of Social Research* *CJ 571 Applied Research Methods in Law Enforcement, taken at the FBI National Academy and transferred from The University of Virginia, will substitute for one of these courses. Professional Ethics (Select one course) – (3 hours) CJUS 4130 Ethical Dilemmas in Criminal Justice LEGL 2400 Legal Ethics PHIL 3511 Ethics UNIV 3540 Ethics and Professionalism Urban and Public Policy Issues Urban Issues (Select two courses)* - (6 hours) ANTH 4411 Urban Anthropology ANTH 4412 Neighborhood Development and Social Entrepreneurship ESCI 3451 Introduction to Urban Planning POLS 4222 Urban Politics SOCI 3112 Contemporary Social Problems SOCI 4631 Cities in Change *CJ 360 Overview of Criminal and Community Behavior, taken at the FBI National Academy and transferred from The University of Virginia, will substitute for one of these courses. Public Policy Issues (Select two courses) – (6 hours) CJUS 3226 Police in America LEGL 3487 Administrative Law and Procedure POLS 3213 Introduction to the Study of Public Policy POLS 4221 Urban Administration SOCI 4842 Sociology of Occupations and Professions Social Issues Social Issues (Select one course) – (3 hours COMM 4373 Interracial Communication SOCI 3422 Racial and Ethnic Minorities SOCI 3432 Sociology of Gender SOCI 4460 Black and White Women in the South Behavioral Issues (Select one course)* - (3 hours) CJUS 3541 Criminology PSYC 3102 Abnormal Psychology PSYC 3106 Social Psychology PSYC 3507 Alcohol, Drugs, and Behavior SOCI 3701 Individual and Society *CJ 462 Applied Criminal Psychology, taken at the FBI National Academy and transferred from The University of Virginia, will substitute for one of these courses. C. Thematic Studies (6 hours) D. Senior Project (3 hours) UNIV 4995 Senior Project (3 hrs) [Completed during the final semester] E. Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120 with a minimum of 42 upper-division hours. College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .