#http://www.memphis.edu/law/alumni/
Alumni &amp; Support - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Alumni Law Alumni Chapter Support Memphis Law How to Give to Memphis Law Areas for Giving Dean's Strategic Initiative Awards &amp; Scholarships Priority Program Student Class Gift Planned Giving Impact of Giving How to Give to Memphis Law ML-Memphis Law Magazine Career Services Alumni Home School of Law Alumni ALUMNI &amp; SUPPORT These are exciting days to be a graduate of Memphis Law. If you have not already heard: The University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law recently launched Esq.Build, our very own Solo Practitioner Incubator program. We partnered with the Memphis Bar Association and a local program called the Service Corps of Retired Executives (SCORE) to launch this program in the fall of 2013 for new attorneys who are in their first three years of practice to receive training regarding not only how to practice law, but how to manage a law office. Participants receive office space at a greatly reduced price, mentoring from local attorneys as well as retired business executives in the community, CLE offerings and a variety of training services to assist them in learning how to start and run a solo or small law practice. Memphis Law has a new Health Law Institute that launched this academic year. It is led by Professor Amy Campbell . The Health Law Institute has a goal of becoming a regionally, and nationally, recognized center for health law and policy, focusing on education and a strong health law curriculum that has traditional doctrinal courses, but also emphasizes practical skills and learning experiences with the rich health law community in the Mid-South region around Memphis. The Health Law Institute has already held an extremely successful Symposium entitled Race, Research, and Rights: The Legacy of the Tuskegee Syphilis Study, which featured famed civil rights attorney Fred Gray as a keynote speaker. Several panels composed of local and regional legal and medical experts followed the keynote address and focused on the legacy of Tuskegee among African-Americans, and other ethnic &amp; racial minorities, in research and treatment settings, with a focus on the Memphis / Shelby County community and featuring local experts from the University of Memphis and the community. The National Jurist ranked the University of Memphis School of Law as one of the Best Value Law Schools in the nation in its new rankings . Memphis Law scored an A- in the new rankings, thanks to our high bar passage rates, affordable tuition, average debt upon graduation, employment rate, and our extremely attractive cost of living. The University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law Duberstein Moot Court Team recently won Best Brief and a Finalist Award in the National Duberstein Moot Court Competition sponsored by St. John's University School of Law in New York City. Prior to this competition, the team competed in the Hon. Lloyd d. George Moot Court Competition in Las Vegas. The team won that competition and Ms. Manning was named Best Oral Advocate. Click here to read more&gt;&gt; We encourage you to stay connected with the law school and your classmates through our University of Memphis Law Alumni Chapter. Each year, the chapter sponsors special events and continuing education opportunities. Alumni Law Alumni Chapter Support Memphis Law How to Give to Memphis Law Areas for Giving Dean's Strategic Initiative Awards &amp; Scholarships Priority Program Student Class Gift Planned Giving Impact of Giving How to Give to Memphis Law ML-Memphis Law Magazine Career Services Alumni Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .