#http://www.memphis.edu/music/ensembles/stud-wind.php
Student Wind Ensembles - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Ensembles Student Choral Jazz Opera Orchestral Bands Sound Fuzion Guitar Faculty Jazz Ceruti String Quartet Memphis Brass Quintet Memphis Woodwind Quintet Home Music Ensembles Student Wind Ensembles There's something in the wind. wind ensemble With a goal of being one of the finest ensembles of its kind, the University of Memphis Wind Ensemble is comprised of the most exceptional graduate and undergraduate instrumentalists attending the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music. The ensemble is dedicated to deliver artistic performances that are both eloquent and meticulously prepared. A significant amount of attention is placed on the innovative programming process, an approach that exemplifies the uniqueness of the Memphis area by highlighting the rich diversity of a distinctive community. The quest of the University of Memphis Wind Ensemble is to achieve the highest degree of professionalism possible, and to bring its audiences the finest artistic repertoire regardless of the period, or style. The Wind Ensemble is conducted by Dr. Albert Nguyen , director of bands and area coordinator for wind studies. Symphonic Band The Symphonic Band performs the masterwork grade five and six wind literature designed for the rich sonorities of an expanded instrumentation. The Symphonic Band pursues excellence in rehearsal and performance, and provides its audiences a varied repertoire from all musical periods, cultures and styles. Auditions are held each semester and participants receive one hour of undergraduate credit. The Symphonic Band rehearses two days per week each semester. University Band The University Band is conducted by band graduate assistants. This group performs a wide range of literature including standard band literature, transcriptions and new music. Students are not required to audition for this band, which meets one day per week. Participants, who are mostly non-music majors, receive one hour of undergraduate credit. For more information, contact the band office at 901.678.2263. Mighty Sound of the South The Mighty Sound of the South Marching Band is a group of 220 to 240 members. They perform for all home games and two away games each fall. Membership is gained upon the satisfactory completion of a playing audition, which may be scheduled by calling the band office. Talent based scholarships are available by audition to all members. School instruments are available for a rental fee of $25.00 per semester. There is no uniform rental fee. When the band travels, the University pays for bus transportation and each student is given a meal allowance. When the band stays overnight, the University pays the hotel/motel accommodations. Marching band members receive two hours academic credit for the fall semester. Band Camp is usually held two weeks before classes begin for the fall semester. Rehearsals are held on campus and out of country/out of state students are housed in dormitories on campus during camp. The marching band performs three different halftime shows each fall in addition to the traditional pre-game show. All University of Memphis home games are played at the Liberty Bowl Stadium. Ensembles Student Choral Jazz Opera Orchestral Bands Sound Fuzion Guitar Faculty Jazz Ceruti String Quartet Memphis Brass Quintet Memphis Woodwind Quintet Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .