#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/padm.php
Public and Nonprofit Administration - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Public and Nonprofit Administration Public and Nonproft Administration MICHAEL HOWELL-MORONEY, PhD Director of Department of Public and Nonprofit Administration SHARON WROBEL, PhD Graduate Program Coordinator 124 McCord Hall 901.678.3360 mpa@memphis.edu I. The Department of Public and Nonprofit Administration is a unit within the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy. Its Master of Public Administration degree program educates students for careers in public service and for employment with government, private, nonprofit, and publicly-oriented organizations. The program combines interdisciplinary academic preparation with governmental and nonprofit field experience. The program is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration. Program objectives are: (1) development of generalist public service management and leadership knowledge, skills and competencies including an emphasis on public values and ethical actions and consequences; (2) ability to apply public management and leadership knowledge and skills; and (3) ability to integrate public administration concepts, theories, and applications. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. PPI STATEMENT All college transcripts and test score information should be sent directly to Graduate Admissions. Beginning with Summer and Fall 2013 admittance , the Master of Arts program in Public and Non-Profit Administration highly recommends the ETS® Personal Potential Index (PPI) Evaluation Report containing a minimum of three (3) evaluations from separate evaluators in order to consider your application complete. The PPI is a third-party evaluative tool administered by the ETS (Educational Testing Service) organization. There is no fee to submit the PPI report to the University of Memphis. You can create an ETS PPI account and review the ETS PPI Information Bulletin, which explains the service, at . PPI - Steps At A Glance Create an ETS PPI account to begin the process. Provide contact information for the evaluators you would like to complete an ETS PPI evaluation. ETS sends an email to each evaluator inviting them to access the ETS PPI system and complete your evaluation. Each evaluator logs in to the ETS PPI system to rate you on six personal attributes and provide an overall evaluation. Evaluators also may provide optional comments for each attribute as well as for the overall rating. You are notified via e-mail when each time that one of your evaluators completes their PPI. **THE MOST IMPORTANT STEP** After all of your evaluators have completed their PPI reports, you must log back into your PPI account, designate the University of Memphis Office of Graduate Admissions to receive an ETS PPI Evaluation Report and select the evaluations that are to be included in the report. Our office cannot access your PPI recommendations until you complete this step. Once you designate the University of Memphis to receive an ETS PPI Evaluation Report, ETS creates an evaluation report and sends it electronically to the University of Memphis, Office of Graduate Admissions. Allow up to 5 days for the report to be processed and sent to the University of Memphis. View a sample PPI Report. The evaluators/faculty members who you choose should be individuals that you believe are best able to objectively comment on your intellectual and professional achievements and potential. We may call or write your recommenders for more information. II. Master of Public Administration (MPA) Degree Program has concentrations in nonprofit administration and public policy/management. A. Program Admission Applicants must satisfy admission requirements of the Graduate School and receive favorable endorsement from the public administration faculty. Admission will be based on: Applicable test scores (Graduate Record Examination [GRE], Graduate Management Aptitude Test [GMAT], or Miller Analogy Test [MAT]); Undergraduate grade point average; Previous education and/or experience demonstrated via a résumé and two letters of reference; Ability to articulate career goals and education objectives via a personal statement. Inquiries can be directed to mpa_admissions@memphis.edu B. Program Requirements Students are required to complete a minimum of thirty-nine (39) semester hours. Twenty-one (21) hours are taken in the core curriculum; fifteen (15) hours are required in each concentration, plus a three (3) hour internship. An individual course plan is designed for each student and approved by the Coordinator of Graduate Studies. The two concentrations allow students to extend the basic knowledge gained in the core curriculum to more focused public service fields, including nonprofit administration and public policy and management. The core curriculum is as follows: PADM 7661. Contemporary Perspectives in Public Administration (3) PADM 7663. Issues in Public Management and Policy PADM 7600. Seminar in Administrative Theory (3) PADM 7601. Research Methods in Public Administration (3) PADM 7602. Public Budgeting and Finance Administration (3) PADM 7605. Human Resources Administration (3) PADM 7607. Public Management Leadership (3) EITHER PADM 7612. Program and Policy Evaluation (3) OR PADM 7213.Seminar in Public Policy Analysis (3) The capstone project must be successfully completed during the calendar year in which the student expects to graduate. Students must also successfully complete PADM 7607, Public Management Leadership, during the calendar year in which the student expects to graduate. C. Concentration Requirements Based on their course plan, students must complete five graduate courses (15 hours) specific to their academic goals and the guidelines of the concentration. Public Service Field Experience: Students with no administrative experience must enroll in PADM 7610, Internship (3 Hours). The internship placement should relate to the student's concentration and career goals. Students must complete a minimum of 18 semester hours prior to enrollment in PADM 7610. D. Non-Degree-Seeking Students If a student has taken graduate courses at The University of Memphis as a non-degree-seeking student, the student may apply a maximum of 9 credit hours toward his/her degree requirements. The grade in each course applied must be at least a “3.00.” The Coordinator of Graduate Studies must approve all course work taken as a non-degree-seeking student. III. Graduate Certificate in Local Government Management The objectives of the certificate program are: (1) Help working professionals upgrade their knowledge of local government and theory. (2) Empower graduates of the program to succeed as effective and ethical leaders in local government administration. (3) Enhance the analytical and management capabilities of local government professionals. A. Admissions Requirements The certificate program in Local Government Management can be pursued concurrently with other graduate programs at the university. Applicants must satisfy admission requirements of the Graduate School and receive a favorable endorsement from the public administration faculty. Admission will be based on: Applicable test scores: Graduate Record Examination (GRE), Graduate Management Aptitude Test (GMAT), or Miller Analogy Test (MAT); Undergraduate grade point average; Previous education and/or experience demonstrated via a resumé and two letters of reference; Ability to articulate career goals and education objectives via a personal statement. Inquiries can be directed to mpa_admissions@memphis.edu . B. Program Requirements Successful completion of 15 hours of graduate credit. Students must maintain a GPA of 3.0. Core Local Government Management Courses, 9 hours: PADM 6221, Urban Administration PADM 7602, Public Budgeting and Finance PADM 7224, Seminar in Urban Problems Electives, 6 hours chosen from the following: PADM 7605, Human Resources Administration PADM 7612, Program and Policy Evaluation PADM 7603, Public and Nonprofit Contract Administration PLAN 7000, Introduction to Planning PLAN 7202, Land Use Planning POLS 6222, Urban Politics Or other elective courses chosen in consultation with an advisor Note: No more than twelve credit hours of this certificate program may be applied toward the completion of the MPA degree. IV. Graduate Certificate Program in Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership The Certificate in Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership is designed to meet the needs of graduate students, employees and volunteers looking for advanced study in the theory and practice of nonprofit administration. Ideal for nonprofit professionals, community volunteer leaders and active philanthropists, the Certificate provides knowledge and skills to help strengthen the leadership capacity of nonprofit organizations and promote ethical and effective nonprofit administrative practice. The Certificate requires 15 hours of graduate coursework, available in both on-campus and online formats. A. Admission Requirements: The Certificate in Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership can be pursued concurrently with other graduate programs at the university. In particular, students currently admitted and in good standing in a graduate program at the University of Memphis can enroll in this certificate program. Applicants must satisfy admission requirements of the Graduate School and receive favorable endorsement from the public administration faculty. Admission will be based on: Applicable test scores (Graduate Record Examination [GRE], Graduate Management Aptitude Test [GMAT], or Miller Analogy Test [MAT]); Undergraduate grade point average; Previous education and/or experience demonstrated via a resumé and two letters of reference; Ability to articulate career goals and education objectives via a personal statement. Inquiries can be directed to mpa_admissions@memphis.edu . B. Program Requirements: Successful completion of 15 hours of graduate credit. Students must maintain a GPA of 3.0. Twelve of the 15 hours must be met by satisfactory completion of four core courses PADM 7641 Theory and Practice of Nonprofits PADM 7605 Human Resources Administration PADM 7642 Resource Development for Nonprofits PADM 7643 Nonprofit Leadership and Philanthropy Elective courses will be selected with the student and their advisor. In order to continue in the program, students must maintain at least a 3.0 Graduate GPA. C. Graduation Requirements: To obtain the certificate a student must complete five of the above-mentioned courses (four major courses and one elective course), with an average grade of 3.0 (B) or higher, for a total of fifteen credits. V. Standardized Exam Waiver Policy Applicants for the MPA degree or certificate programs may be eligible for a waiver of the standardized entrance exam (GRE, GMAT or MAT) if they fall into one of the groups below: Applicants with an earned professional or graduate degree from an accredited institution Public Service Experience: Certain applicants may be eligible for a waiver based upon a combination of their undergraduate performance and subsequent work experience. Applicants seeking a waiver under this mechanism must meet all of the following criteria: Undergraduate GPA of 3.0 or better Six years of progressively responsible public service experience Successfully reach supervisory or managerial positions in public or nonprofit organizations, including independence of authority, responsibility of program design, and/or budgetary authority Demonstrated exemplary accomplishment in their public service career or community volunteer activities documented in letters of recommendation *IMPORTANT* Applicants seeking a waiver must contact the Division Director BEFORE beginning their application. If a waiver is not granted prior to applying, the application will not be processed by the Graduate School. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .