#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/faculty_staff/ucgs_bylaws.php
UCGS Bylaws - Graduate School - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate School Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Programs Events Resources Faculty and Staff Curricular Procedures Curricular Revision Forms TBR Academic Program Proposal Policies TBR Academic Program Proposal Guidelines TBR Academic Program Proposal Forms Graduate School Calendar Graduate School Forms Graduate School Contact Information Home Graduate School Faculty/Staff UCGS Bylaws University Council of Graduate Studies Bylaws ARTICLE I - NAME The name of this organization shall be the University Council for Graduate Studies (hereinafter referred to as the UCGS). ARTICLE II - OBJECT The UCGS acts on behalf of graduate faculty in the governance of graduate programs to produce individuals capable of creative scholarship in their chosen disciplines. It performs both as a policy-making body, subject to approval by the President, and as an advisory body to the Dean of Graduate Studies. The UCGS will: Propose through the Dean of Graduate Studies to the Provost and the President policies and procedures that influence the quality of graduate instruction and research programs. Hear and act upon graduate student appeals of decisions related to academic standing or other graduate policies when those issues have not been resolved at a departmental or college level. The decision of the UCGS shall be final. It has no jurisdiction in course grade appeals; however, the chair of the Graduate Grade Appeals Committee shall be a member of the UCGS. Establish criteria for and hear appeals of membership to various levels of membership in the Graduate Faculty. Receive proposals and recommend action on new or revised graduate programs and courses. Advise the Dean of Graduate Studies on such matters as may be brought before the UCGS. ARTICLE III Section 1: REPRESENTATION The UCGS shall be composed of two ex officio members and twenty-four voting members. The ex officio members shall be the Dean of Graduate Studies and the Director of Graduate Student Services. Voting members shall be the Directors of Graduate Studies (one from each of the graduate colleges and schools: College of Arts and Sciences, Fogelman College of Business and Economics, College of Communication and Fine Arts, College of Education, Health and Human Sciences, Herff College of Engineering, the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders, Loewenberg School of Nursing, the School of Public Health, and University College), the president of the Graduate Student Association (GSA), thirteen Graduate Faculty representing the various graduate colleges, and one representative elected by the Faculty Senate. In recognition of the various college and school discipline areas and the population of graduate faculty, the following formula allotment has been determined: ARTS AND SCIENCES 3 BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS 2 COMMUNICATION AND FINE ARTS 2 EDUCATION, HEALTH AND HUMAN SCIENCES 2 ENGINEERING 2 NURSING 1 UNIVERSITY COLLEGE 1 Each college/school should determine criteria for election/appointment to the UCGS that will ensure broad disciplinary representation. If in subsequent years there is a significant change to this distribution, the formula will be adjusted and colleges/schools notified. Meetings of the UCGS shall be chaired by the Dean of Graduate Studies. In the Dean's absence, the chair shall fall respectively to the Graduate Directors from the Colleges in rotation beginning with the College Director who has served on the Council for the longest time. Ex officio members shall serve without vote. Appointments shall be three-year terms for faculty and one year for graduate students beginning September following the election. Section 2: ELECTIONS Only full and associate members of the graduate faculty may vote for college representatives to the UCGS. It is assumed that appropriate election policy and procedures will be followed in the represented units. If a problem arises, the UCGS reserves the right of review and calling a new election. The regular election of representatives to the University Council shall be held no later than mid-March each year. By the end of March, the respective units shall forward the names of the newly elected members to the Dean of Graduate Studies. At the annual meeting in May, the Vice Provost for Graduate Studies shall make announcement of the newly constituted University Council for Graduate Studies. Terms of service begin in September. CRITERIA FOR THE ELECTED MEMBERSHIP IS AS FOLLOWS: Faculty Representatives: Only Full and Associate Graduate Faculty who have at least two years of graduate teaching experience at The University of Memphis are eligible to serve on the Council. Faculty Senate Representative: Only Full and Associate Graduate Faculty who have at least two years of graduate teaching experience at The University of Memphis are eligible to serve on the Council. Graduate Student Representative: The President of the GSA will serve as the graduate student representative on the Council. If a vacancy occurs more than sixty days prior to the date of a regular election, the position shall be filled by a special election conducted in accordance with the standard procedures certified for the college. Vacancies that occur within sixty days of a regular election will be filled at the time of that election. ARTICLE IV - OFFICERS The officers of the University Council for Graduate Studies shall be the Chair (as outlined in Article III) and a secretary appointed by the chair from the Graduate School. These officers shall perform the duties prescribed by these bylaws and the parliamentary authority adopted by the UCGS. ARTICLE V - MEETINGS Section 1: REGULAR MEETINGS The regular meetings of the UCGS shall be held each month from September through May, unless otherwise ordered by the chair or a majority vote of the UCGS. Meetings may be scheduled during summer months by the chair if necessary. Section 2: ANNUAL MEETING The regular meeting in May shall be known as the annual meeting and shall be for the purpose of announcing the results of the elections, receiving reports from the subcommittees, selecting dates and times for the following year's meetings, and for any other business deemed necessary by the chair of the membership. Section 3: SPECIAL MEETINGS Special meetings may be called by the chair. The purpose of these meetings shall be stated in the call and, except in cases of emergency, at least five working days' notice shall be given. Section 4: ABSENCE OF MEMBERS If for any reason a member of the UCGS cannot attend a meeting, another Council member may be designated as proxy for voting purposes. The designation shall be presented in writing to the chair at the time of the meeting. Section 5: QUORUM Twelve voting members of the University Council shall constitute a quorum. ARTICLE VI - COMMITTEES Standing or special committees shall be appointed by the chair as necessary to carry on the work of the University Council. ARTICLE VII - PARLIAMENTARY AUTHORITY Section 1: PROCEDURE The rules contained in the latest edition of Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised shall govern the University Council for Graduate Studies to the extent that they are not inconsistent with these bylaws or with any special rules of order the UCGS may adopt. Section 2: OPEN MEETINGS Meetings of the UCGS are open to all faculty members. If confidential issues are on the table, then the chair has the power to call the UCGS to executive session. When an appeal of any type is under consideration, the chair will excuse all visitors before a vote is taken. ARTICLE VIII - AMENDMENT TO BYLAWS These bylaws can be amended at any meeting of the UCGS by a two-thirds vote, provided that the amendment has been submitted in writing at the previous regular meeting. Approved by the University Council for Graduate Studies: 04.03.2015 Faculty and Staff Curricular Procedures Curricular Revision Forms TBR Academic Program Proposal Policies TBR Academic Program Proposal Guidelines TBR Academic Program Proposal Forms Graduate School Calendar Graduate School Forms Graduate School Contact Information Get More Information Request information about a specific program of interest. Graduate Catalog Learn more about our programs. Apply Now Submit your application today. Support Graduate Education Your gifts make a difference! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .