#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/fir/2015FFIR6610001.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus FIR 4610 - 6610 - 00 1 Cases in Managerial Finance Fall 2015 3 Credit Hours Instructor: Mr. Leslie Mathis, MS, MBA, MIM, CFA Phone : 678 - 4642 E - mail: lmathis@memphis.edu O ffice: FAB 446 Office Hours: MW 11:00 am - 12:30 pm & TR 10:00 am - 11:15 am Class Times & Locati on: TR 11:20 - 12:45 pm in FCB 261 Course Overview Application of tools and principles introduced in previous courses to develop up - to - date problem solving technique s. Cases are approached from the standpoint of top level management and utilize both quantitative and qualitative analyses. Prerequisites: FIR 4440 or FIR 7155 Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : Case Studies in Finance: Managing for Corporate Value Creation, 7 th edition by Bruner, Eades, & Schill. St udents should also obtain a financial calculator. My preferred model is the HP 10bII. Course Objectives : -- Students (in groups of 3 or 4) should demonstrate their presentation a nd discussion leadership skills by making a lengthy presentation o f a case. -- Students should learn about CFA ethics rules and show their mastery by analyzing a case involving questionable behavior by cor porate officials. -- S tudents need to recognize the importan ce of following corporate governance procedures and incorporating value creation into the firm s activities. -- Students must real ize the importance of effective worki ng capital management in a firm s operations. -- Students must know how real world companies can estimate the firm s cost of capi tal. They should also recognize how to use this cost of capital in the firm s financial management. -- Students should be able to recognize the relevant cash flows and know how to use appropriate capital budgeting techniques to recognize profitable and unprofitable capital projects. -- Students must understand how to use stock repurchases and dividend payouts to maximize the firm s valuation. -- Students should b e able to analyze a firm s financial statements and calculate ratios to make quality business decisions. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your BBA Degree h s/BBADegreeLearningOutcomes.pdf Grading and Evaluation Criteria I will determine final grades based on the following criteria: Midterm Exam 25% Final Exam 25% Attendance 12.5% Quizzes/Assignments 12.5% Group P resentation 25% Final Course Grades I plan to use plus or minus grades for the overall grade. The final grading scale will be as follows: 90 and above = A 80 - 89 = B 70 - 79 = C 60 - 69 = D Below 60 = F Final Exam Schedule The f inal exam will be held on Thurs day , December 10 from 8:00 to 10:00 a m in the regular classroom. The final exam for this class will be scheduled according to the academic calendar website . Course Policies Attendance: Students are required to attend all classes. I plan to track attendance on a daily basis. Students missing more than 2 classes will lose 10 points on their attendance grade for each class session missed. There will be no excused o r unexcused absences. I give you two absences before I deduct points on your attendance grade. Academic Integrity: During tests, students should not use answers generated by other students. Furthermore, they need to keep their test papers flat on their desks, and answers should be covered. If I believe that an exam has been compromised, I reserve the right to have the suspected student or students to retake the exam. Violations may result in academic penalties, Students will not be allowed to use a cell phone in class during exams. Please turn off all cell phones and place them out of sight. Students should follow all university and FCBE policies on academic integrity. For further information, refer to . Participation: I encourage students to participate actively in the discussion. However, we must talk in an organized manner. Raise your hand and wait until you have b een recognized. Exams The midterm and final exams will be in class and will comprise written discussion questions on cases that students have studied in class during the semester. Students will not have access to the questions before taking the exam. They will be expected to make up any exams missed because of personal illness or emergency. All students will be required to take the final exam. Reporting Illness or Absence: You may report any necessary absences by e - mailing me at lmathis@memphis.edu . Plus or Minus Grades I plan to use plus or minus grades for the overall grades in this course. Presentations Students in teams of 3 or 4 will each present a case during the semester. Each presentation will take a class session. I expect each group to provide a synthesis of the background of the case and to lead the class in a discussion of the most important id eas from the case. In evaluating your presentation, your instructor will give a grade based on (1) the overall meaningful discussion of the case; (3) how wel l the group shows mastery of the concepts of the case; and (4) the extent to which the group covers the case completely focusing on the most important ideas. Group members are expected to participate equally in the preparation and in the presentation. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance Course Outline Tu Aug 25 Orientation Th Aug 27 Intro to Case Methodology Tu Sept 1 Case 1 Warren Buffett Th Sept 3 Case 2 Bill Miller Tu Sept 8 Case 7 Financial Detective Th Tu Sept 15 Case 4* Fed Ex - UPS Th Sept 17 C ase 5* Krispy Kreme Tu Sept 22 Case 11 Horniman Horticulture Th Sept 24 TBA Tu Sept 29 Case 12* Guna Fibres Th Oct 1 CFA Ethics Overview Tu Oct 6 Sokol Ethics Case Th Oct 8 Midterm Exam Tu Oct 13 Fall Break Th Oct 15 Case 13 Best Practices in Estimating the Cost of Capital Tu Oct 20 Case 15 Nike Th Oct 22 Case 16* Teletech Tu Oct 27 Case 18 Investment Detective Th Oct 29 Case 19 Worldwide Paper Tu Nov 3 Case 20* Target Th Nov 5 Case 24 Victoria Chemicals (A) Tu Nov 10 Case 28 U of Virginia Health System Th Nov 12 Case 29* Gainesboro Tu No v 17 Case 30* Auto Zone, Inc. Th Nov 19 Case 43* American Greetings Tu Nov 24 Case 45 Jet Blue Th Nov 26 Thanksgiving Tu Dec 1 Recap Th Dec 10 8am - 10 am Final Exam