#http://www.memphis.edu/cris/about/history.php
History of CRIS - CRIS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Campus Recreation Intramural Services About Membership Classes/Programs Aquatics Intramurals/Club Sports Facilities About News History Staff Contact Us Hours of Operation Calendar Employment Opportunities Frequently Asked Questions Home CRIS About History of CRIS History of CRIS In 1971, the newly completed the HPER Complex/PE building (managed by the Department of Health, Physical Education and Recreation) was considered one of the finest recreation facilities around. Between 1979 and 1982, the Campus Recreation department moved from HPER to Student Affairs, then back to HPER, and in 1996 the department moved back to Student Affairs in the Department of Student Life. In 1999, the Student Recreation and Fitness Center was renovated and the Larry O.Finch men's basketball practice facility was added. In January 2000, the building was rededicated at its grand opening as the Student Recreation and Fitness Center, which housed Campus Recreation Intramural Services and the Larry O. Finch Center. The facilities include: three full-size gyms; indoor and outdoor 50-meter swimming pools with an accompanying outdoor dive well and an indoor leisure pool; an aerobics studio; a fitness studio; steam room/sauna/whirlpool; a cardio room; a circuit/free weight room; men's/women's locker rooms with lockers; a massage therapist room; swim club office; seven handball/racquetball courts; an indoor golf range; a core training room; a rowing studio/functional training court; 14 outdoor tennis courts; six outdoor basketball goals; two outdoor sand volleyball courts; a multi-use field; a classroom; a recreational equipment room; and intramural, faculty, and administrative offices. Philosophy &amp; purpose of the Recreation center Campus Recreation Intramural Services (CRIS) is 110% committed to meeting the wellness and recreational needs of students, faculty, staff, alumni and friends of the University of Memphis. Services include exercise classes, fitness programs, leisure counseling, informal recreation, competitive intramural sports, special programs/ events, club sports, equipment purchase/ rental and a variety of courses/ clinics focusing on our increasing leisure time. We strive to provide the very best, safe, and supervised programs as well as the sound operation and timely maintenance of facilities and equipment. The Division of Student Affairs believes that CRIS is essential to providing the contemporary, well rounded university education students look for at college these days. Focused on the comprehensive well-being of all members of the university community, CRIS brings our campus community together through enhanced services and facilities. Student Affairs also believes that a sense of physical well-being, as well as the development of physical skills which lead to productive leisure time, are of vital importance to campus life. Active participation in sports and other leisure activities contributes positively to the total educational process through the development of skills essential for everyday life. CRIS appreciates the meaningfulness and importance of leisure time in our students' stressful lives and we develop our programs to support them. Goals: 1. Motivate more students, faculty, staff and other members to exercise at the Student Recreation and Fitness Center. 2. Provide services and facilities that will be pleasing to the vast majority of students, faculty, staff, and other members. 3. Communicate life lessons through participation in intramural programs. 4. Effectively instill principles of healthy living through programming and marketing efforts (student learning). About News History Staff Contact Us Hours of Operation Calendar Employment Opportunities Frequently Asked Questions Updates on New Student Recreation Center Keep up with news on our New Student Recreation Center Apply for a Job Explore job opportunities at the Recreation Center Join an Intramurals/Club Sports Team Participate in competitive play in selected sport events! Sign up for a Fitness Program Interested in staying in shape? Checkout our fitness programs. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .