#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/fll.php
Foreign Languages and Literature - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Foreign Languages and Literature Foreign Languages and Literature WILLIAM THOMPSON, PhD Chair FERNANDO BURGOS, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies fburgos@memphis.edu DENIS GRELE, PhD French Section Coordinator ddgrele@memphis.edu Room 108, Jones Hall 901.678.2506 I. The Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures offers a program leading to the Master of Arts degree in Romance Languages with concentration in either French or Spanish. Program objectives: The MA program prepares students in the areas of literature, culture, education, grammar, and linguistics and is oriented toward the preparation of students who may be interested in teaching in public and private elementary and secondary education, teaching as a part-time or full-time instructor at the college level, pursuing a PhD in the field of concentration often at highly-ranked universities, or enhancing the student's skills for a career in law or business as well as in government agencies. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MA Degree Program A student entering the program will be assigned a major advisor, usually the respective graduate coordinator for French or Spanish. This advisor is to be consulted in all matters concerning the student’s program of study. It is the student’s responsibility to familiarize himself/herself with the detailed online description of the program concerning requirements, policies, and procedures including--but not limited to--the reading list, coursework requirements, course descriptions, comprehensive examination procedures, reading knowledge of a second language, independent studies, language proficiency, grade point average requirements, time limitation, academic misconduct policies, and other issues. It is also the student's responsibility to consult with his/her respective graduate coordinator and/or the chair for further clarification. Teaching Assistantships carry a stipend and cover the cost of tuition for the entire program. The Department also offers Research Assistantships which carry a stipend and half-tuition scholarship per academic semester. Both awards are offered on a competitive basis. Part-time students or students who have a full-time job or any other activities that may interfere with their academic responsibilities are not eligible . Students interested in obtaining a teaching or research assistantship must be officially admitted into the MA program in Romance Languages first and should submit a letter of intent , addressed to the Chairman, Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures with a copy to the Coordinator of Graduate Studies. Applicants are encouraged to visit the department web site at for a detailed description of the program and information about the stipend amount for teaching and research assistantships. A. Program Prerequisites The applicant must provide an official transcript showing that a bachelor's degree was awarded by an accredited college or university. Official transcripts should be sent to the Office of Graduate Admissions. A minimum of a 3.0 quality point average on a scale of 4.0 is highly desirable. Students with less than a 3.0 quality point average may be admitted with the approval of the Department Chair and the Coordinator of Graduate Studies. A minimum of 24 upper-division semester hours or the equivalent in French or Spanish. Examples of an equivalent preparation in French or Spanish include having native or near-native proficiency, university studies in a French/Spanish-speaking country, etc. A reasonable proficiency in the language of concentration, to be determined by the Department prior to admission. An oral interview in French or Spanish is required. The applicant must contact the respective coordinator in French or Spanish early in the admission process to make arrangements for the interview. A writing sample in French or Spanish depending on the concentration chosen must be submitted to the respective coordinator of French or Spanish. This documentation is intended to demonstrate the student's adequate command of writing skills in his/her field of concentration. A letter of intent explaining the applicant's motivation and objectives in pursuing a graduate degree in French or Spanish. Two letters of recommendation from professors who have taught the applicant. A 3.0 GPA for upper-division courses in the field. A GPA below 3.0 requires the approval of the Department Chair and the Coordinator of Graduate Studies. International students, i.e. applicants whose highest degree is from a foreign university, must have their credentials evaluated. The university will accept evaluations done by any credentialing agency listed on the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services web site . The course-by course report is required. International students must therefore: score a minimum of 94 on the web-based TOEFL and a minimum of 26 on the speaking portion of the same exam. convert their educational credentials–grades and diploma—into their US equivalents with an appropriate agency listed on the National Association of Credential Evaluation services; Ask the same agency to submit the official transcript and diploma along with their respective conversion and translation to Graduate Admissions, University of Memphis. B. Program Requirements A total of thirty-three (33) semester hours. The possibility of collateral hours — i. e. coursework in another discipline or department which is related to the field of concentration—are handled differently in French and Spanish. Students interested in taking collateral hours will need to consult with the respective coordinator in French and Spanish to see if these hours are available in their concentration and if they are eligible.At least 23 hours must be taken in 7000-level courses (eight [8] courses in all). Satisfactory completion of minimum standards for eligibility to take the comprehensive exams. Students in the program must seek advice from the respective coordinator in French and Spanish to determine that the coursework they carry fulfills these minimum standards. A reading knowledge of a foreign language other than that of the concentration. This may be demonstrated in the following ways: achieving a grade of B ("3.0") or better in a fourth-semester language course (e.g. FREN/GERM/ITAL/SPAN 2020), achieving a grade of B ( "3.0") or better in a graduate reading course (FREN 7000 and GERM 7000 are the only two courses available for this option. They are usually offered in the summer) achieving a grade of B (“3.0”) or better in upper-division courses at the 3000- or 4000-levels (e.g. FREN 3302/GERM 3790/ITAL 3311/PORT 3301/SPAN3303), achieving a grade of B (“3.0”) or better in graduate courses taught in the target language at the 6000- or 7000 levels (e.g. FREN 6302/PORT 6024/SPAN 6307, students who provide evidence of knowledge of a foreign language other than that of the concentration equivalent to a fourth-semester language course or superior may arrange with the section head of the specific language for a written test to prove competency. A comprehensive written and oral examination after completion of 33 hours and fulfillment of the reading knowledge requirement. These examinations will be conducted in the language of the concentration. For a full description of the comprehensive examination procedures, please visit the department website at Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .