#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mis/2015FMIS3210006.pdf
Course Syllabus MIS 3210-006 Œ Critical Thinking and Project Manage ment Fall Semester, 2015 3.0 Credit Hours Instructor: Richard Kumi Phone: 901.678.4511 E-mail: rkumi@memphis.edu Office: FCBE 340 Class Meeting Times: Meeting dates: August 24 th to December 10 th Meeting times: Tuesday, Thursday: 7:10 to 8:35PM Location: FCB 119 Office Hours: Tuesday and Thursday 2.30PM to 4.30PM , and by appointment Course Overview This course will integrate the concepts of critical thinking, problem solving, and project management. The course will expose students to cri tical thinking and the application of critical thinking to decision making. You will learn specifi c skills and techniques of problem solving and then apply those skills and techniques using case s tudies. The second half of the course will focus on project management. You will learn about the proces ses, methods, techniques, and tools for managing complex projects in organizations. Pre-Requisites/Co-Requisites: This is an upper-division required course for all F CBE majors. Lower division core courses must be completed before enrollment in this course is permi tted Required Texts (and Related Materials): 1. Custom book: Critical Thinking and Project Management, 2 nd ed . 2. Case studies OR 1. Strategies for Creative Problem Solving, 2 nd ed . By H. Scott Fogler and Steven E. LeBlanc. Prentice Hall/Pearson publisher. ISBN: 978-0-13-008 279-4. 2. Project management Achieving Competitive Advantage , 3 rd edition by H. Scott Fogler and Steven E. LeBlanc 3. Case studies Course Objectives: By successfully completing this course, students wi ll be able to: 1. Critically think about issues and problems 2. Present, assess and analyze appropriate and support ing evidence/information in a situation 3. Identify and assess conclusions, implications, and consequences that support decision-making 4. Solve problems using a variety of tools and techniq ues 5. Evaluate evidence/information and analyze ambiguous or inconclusive results 6. Evaluate project feasibility, and initiate, specify , and prioritize projects Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degre e This course is designed to help you to meet the ove rall learning objectives for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. Please review the learning objectives of the BBA program at: egreeLearningOutcomes.pdf Course Methodology 1. Lectures/Class Discussions/Class Assignments 2. Exams 3. Case studies, quizzes, and assignments Professor™s Expectations: The course will be conducted as a lecture/seminar. Students are responsible for all materials covered in class and assigned text chapters. Stude nts are also responsible for any announcements made in class. All announcements will be posted in e-course. Specific due dates will be stated for all deliverables in e-course. Failure to complete item s before the due date will result in reduced credit . All assignments should be submitted through e-course, n o exceptions. At no point will the instructor acce pt email attachments or any other means of submitting any of the deliverables for this course. Student's Expectations: Fogelman students have endorsed the Fogelman Code of Professionalism for Students . Please review the code to understand the expectations for students in this class and the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. The code is loca ted at sionalism.php Grading and Evaluation Criteria Final Course Grades Grading Evaluation Above 90% A Above 80% but below 90% B Above 70% but below 80% C Above 60% but below 70% D Below 60% F Extra Credit Extra credit of not more than 3% may be available f or professional development activities organized by the University of Memphis as well as off-campus activities. Instructor will provide detailed information on some of these University of Memphis sponsored professional development activities in class. If you identify a professional developmen t event that you want to attend and it is not sponsored by the University of Memphis, please info rm instructor prior to attending if you plan to apply for extra credit Schedule of Activities Please refer to the list of weekly learning activit ies in the schedule Final Exam Schedule The final exam for this class will be scheduled acc ording to the Registrar™s academic calendar website . Evaluation Quizzes (best 5 out of 7) 10% Homework (best 5 out of 6) 20% 3 Cases Studies 20% Project 10% 4 Labs on Excel 10% Exams 1 15% Exams 2 15% Total 100% Course Policies E-MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access th eir University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all official course correspondence at this email account. It is your responsibility to check your inbox frequently and read all email messages from the course instructor. Texting and talking on cell phones is not permitted during class time. Laptop computers are permitted in the classroom but should only be used for class-related purposes. All homework assignments are individual assignments and each person is expected to create their own files and do their own work. Collaboration on homework assignments is cheating . If you work with other students on an assignment, you will split the points between those you worked with. If you turn in another student™s work as your own, you will receiv e a 0 on that assignment. You are expected to turn in your assignments on tim e. The due dates for assignments are provided on th e weekly schedule (below). Points will be deducted fo r late assignments (Refer to the Student Handbook, sections Academic and Misconduct and Classroom Misconduct for information) Attendance: You are expected to attend all class meetings and s tay for the entire duration of the meeting time. Al l absences are considered unexcused unless you are re quired to attend a university-sponsored event or you informed prior to the class time. If you absenc e is due to illness, you must provide evidence of your illness. It is your responsibility to make up any coursework that was missed because of an absence. Graded assignments in this course include in-class assignments and lab (computer-based) assignments. You are NOT required to attend class on the lab-ass ignment days ( but you are expected to complete the assignment during class time where eve r you have access to a computer). Inclement Weather In the event of inclement weather, the University w ill issue statement on when the University will be closed and opened. The University of Memphi s has established an Inclement Weather Hotline at 678-0888. The University of Memphis also offers an emergency alert text messaging service to students, faculty and staff. This optional service is used in the event o f an on-campus emergency, an unscheduled university closing, or a delay or cancellation of classes due to, for instance, inclement weather. To subscribe t o the tiger text service go to Technical Problems If you have technical problems notify the instructo r and contact technical support immediately. For technical support, use the online helpdesk tick et systems at OR call 901-678-8888. Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has published rules and r esponsibilities regarding academic conduct. In addition, the Fogelman College of Business and Econ omics policy on academic integrity is located at You are expected to follow these rules and guidelin es. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about: · Students with Disabilities · Tutoring and other Academic Assistance · Advising Services for Fogelman Students · Technical Assistance