#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/institute/
Institute - Social Work - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Social Work About Undergraduate Graduate People Research Resources Institute Institute Poverty Fact Sheets CAYD MSW-PDI Students Helping Students Fall 2015 Student Flyer SHS Program Annual Symposium 2012 Proceedings 2014 Proceedings Home Social Work Institute Mid-South Family &amp; Community Empowerment Institute Mission Statement To provide a central organization to conduct research and training, as well as to provide information, assessment, referral, and wraparound services to the Mid-South. Co-Directors Dr. Greg Washington Dr. Elena Delavega special Projects: FREE CME/CEU TRAINING: Blending Behavioral Health and Primary Care Cherokee Health Systems will speak to primary care, mental, and behavioral health professionals about the integrated practice model on Wednesday, November 18th, 9:00 am - 12:00 pm, in the University Center Ballroom at the University of Memphis. This is a free training, but registration is strongly encouraged. Register Here . 3 CEUs for Social Workers, 2.5 CMEs for Medical Professionals. View the flyer with CME Accreditation Information here . Social workers in attendance at this workshop are encouraged to review Chapter 1365-1 to ensure the workshop they are attending is applicable and appropriate to their professional development. The Tennessee Board of Social Work Certification and Licensure does not pre-approve continuing education programs. It is the responsibility of the LMSW/LCSW, using their professional judgment, to justify that the continuing educational program meets the guidelines of Chapter 1365-1 and is relevant to their professional practice. Call for Abstracts: 4th social Work Symposium Annual Symposium of the University of Memphis Department of Social Work Beverly Robertson was keynote speaker for the 3rd Annual Symposium of The University of Memphis Department of Social Work and Mid-South Family &amp; Community Empowerment Institute. The 2015 symposium was titled 150 Years after Appomattox: Social Work &amp; the Reconstruction of Human Dignity. Ms. Robertson opened the Symposium with a powerful address on this topic. Watch her address here . Students Helping Students Program Would you like to improve your academic or social emotional skills? All undergraduate students in any major are invited to be screened for a new program, Students Helping Students . Students interested in this research study are to call or email the Student Helping Students Program and set up an appointment for screening. Email studentshelpingstudents@memphis.edu for a screening appointment. Office Hours: FALL 2015 Monday: 8:00AM-1:00PM Tuesday: 9:00AM-12:30PM/ 4:30PM-7:00pm Wednesday: 9:00AM-2:00PM/ 4:30PM-7:00PM Thursday: 9:00AM-2:00PM/ 4:30PM-7:00PM Friday: Email to schedule appointment if needed Location: 111 Browning Hall *If you are interested but these times do not fit your schedule, please contact us; availability is flexible. Mid-South Family &amp; Community Empowerment Institute: Scope of Work The purpose of the Institute would be a multi-faceted facility focusing on service to the community via the following major areas: Immediate Training (BSW &amp; MSW Students, LMSW, LCSW Licensing Training, Staff Development Programming, Continuing Education). Research and Data Center (gathering, analysis, and dissemination). Short Term Intake, Screening, Assessment, Evaluation and Support. Long Term Social work evidence-based interventions and wraparound services (Referral unless specific gaps in service cannot be otherwise addressed). Benefits to Students The Institute would advance the pedagogic mission of the University of Memphis through the development of student placements in a supportive environment in direct contact with the Department of Social Work. Graduation/Retention Ability to leverage community relationships to develop field internships to fit student needs, particularly: Non-traditional students with complicated schedules Returning veterans Students with special needs Institute Poverty Fact Sheets CAYD MSW-PDI Students Helping Students Fall 2015 Student Flyer SHS Program Annual Symposium 2012 Proceedings 2014 Proceedings Why Study Social Work? The study of social work prepares you for a career in a strong growth area News Stay connected with current and pressing social work information to students, staff, faculty, and field instructors. SUAPP The Department of Social Work is a part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy. Contact Us Main office and location information. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/26/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .