#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/facilities.php
Facilities, Research, and Services - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Facilities, Research, and Services Facilities, Research, and Services Academic Common Market Participation in the Academic Common Market allows qualified students from southern states to pay in-state tuition while pursuing certain degree programs at the University of Memphis. This arrangement is available only for students whose home states do not offer the designated program. The state in which the student resides determines which of the programs offered by the University of Memphis it will make available to its students. The Academic Common Market is sponsored by the Southern Regional Education Board (SREB). Participating states are Alabama, Arkansas, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and West Virginia (Florida and Texas grant access for graduate level programs only). Current SREB common market guidelines and requirements may be found on the web at Students may request through their home state coordinators that additional programs be made accessible. A list of the state coordinators with their addresses and telephone numbers may be obtained from the Academic Common Market web site In addition to certification requirements which the student's state of residence may specify, the following pertain: (1) Students must be fully admitted to a degree program that has been approved as an Academic Common Market program (nondegree students are ineligible); (2) students must obtain a letter certifying residency term of entry and approval for the particular University of Memphis program from their state's Academic Common Market coordinator. NOTE: After enrollment, students remain eligible for in-state tuition only so long as they are continuously enrolled-consecutive fall and spring terms-in the same major for which they were originally certified. If students change major, they must process a Change of Major through their advisor and notify the Office of Admissions to change the Academic Common Market residency code on their records. Failure to process the Change of Major and to notify the Office of Admissions may subject the student to out-of-state fees for all subsequent terms of enrollment in classes for a major other than the one for which the student received ACM certification. Missing a fall or spring term of enrollment or a change of major requires that the student be recertified through the ACM coordinator in the student's state of residence. Library Facilities The University of Memphis Libraries include the Ned R. McWherter Library and five branch libraries: Audiology and Speech Language Pathology, Chemistry, Earth Sciences, Mathematics, and Music, which are contiguous to the appropriate university departments. The McWherter Library offers many services through its Reference Department, including access to both electronic and print resources and instruction in use of all resources in the University Libraries. The Periodicals Department also offers assistance in accessing electronic resources, especially electronic full-text journals. The Government Publications Department is the Regional Federal Documents Depository for the State of Tennessee Documents. The Special Collections Departments' largest collection, consisting of unique and rare manuscripts, cartographic, photographic, and printed materials, including the Mississippi Valley Collection, reflects the history and culture of the Mississippi River valley. The University of Memphis Libraries maintains agreements with other local institutions for shared use of library collections by students, faculty, and staff. These institutions include Rhodes College, LeMoyne-Owen College, Mid-America Baptist Theological Seminary, Memphis Theological Seminary, Southwest Tennessee Community College, the University of Mississippi, Christian Brothers University and Mid-South Community College. The University of Memphis Libraries' provides access for all students and faculty to the electronic resources provided by the Libraries, including the Libraries' catalog of its collections. Access to the website is available to all Internet users, whether at home, at an off-campus site, or at a workstation in the McWherter Library and its branch libraries. Information Systems The University of Memphis has long recognized that information technology plays a central role in teaching, learning, and research. Under the leadership of the Chief Information Officer (CIO), Information Technology Services (ITS) is responsible for implementing, provisioning, and ensuring access to technologies. A variety of technologies are used to support teaching and learning including smart classrooms and computer labs, simulation technologies, online learning technologies, and research computing facilities. Campus technology facilities can be located by visiting and clicking the "Find Technology" link. Access to campus technologies are enabled and enhanced by the University's core infrastructure technologies including enterprise networks, servers, and applications. The University maintains high-bandwidth and reliable commodity internet and telecommunication services for the entire campus community. Access to the network is provided through wired and wireless connections. High-capacity and reliable network and telecommunication services are a critical component of the University's ability to provide effective support for students, faculty, and staff. The University also recognizes the importance of high-performance computing (HPC) resources for research and education. Since 2006 the University has maintained HPC facilities on campus and refreshes the equipment on a three-year cycle. The HPC cluster supports teaching and learning by providing resources necessary for faculty and students to conduct research in computationally intensive areas. In addition to teaching and learning technologies, ITS is also responsible for supporting the University's administrative systems, mobile application, and email services. The ITS Helpdesk is the central point of contact for all technical support requests. The helpdesk can be reached at 901.678.8888 or . Benjamin Hooks Institute for Social Change The Institute pursues a broad programmatic agenda of research and outreach that builds upon Dr. Hooks' lifetime of work to achieve a more just society. The Hooks Institute is committed to advancing the goals of the American Civil Rights Movement, and making Memphis a national center for the study of the Civil Rights Movement and its legacy. Bureau of Business and Economic Research The Bureau of Business and Economic Research is the organized research and public service unit of the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. The programs of the bureau include public service to government agencies (state and local) and the business community, continuing education, and applied general research. Center of Applied Psychological Research The Center for Applied Psychological Research supports research on problems concerning health, mental health, education, schools, crime, the environment, and children and their families. The Center also supports basic scientific research in cognitive psychology, biopsychology, social psychology, developmental psychology, and research design and statistics. Center for Earthquake Research and Information The Center for Earthquake Research and Information was established in 1977 by the Tennessee State Legislature to provide the citizens of Tennessee, governmental agencies, and the news media such services as the following: (1) accurate, immediate reports and background information on the occurrence of regional earthquakes; (2) scientific research related to the causes and consequences of local earthquakes and to the possibility of earthquake prediction; (3) studies related to the desirability of earthquake resistant construction; (4) advice to the populace, business, government, and insurance groups on the methods, means, and feasibility of reducing earthquake damage. It operates as a research organization of the University of Memphis. It supports some undergraduate student research in seismology and geophysics and civil engineering and cooperates with the Department of Geological Sciences in offering an undergraduate degree concentration in geophysics. Center for Research in Educational Policy The Center for Research in Educational Policy is funded by the State of Tennessee as one of five Centers of Excellence located at the University of Memphis. CREP's mission is to implement a research agenda associated with educational policies and practices in the pre K-12 public schools of Tennessee and the nation and to provide a knowledge base for use by educational practitioners and policymakers. Research outcomes are intended to not only describe the complexities of educational phenomena, but also offer recommendations for action. Since 1989, the Center has served as a mechanism for mobilizing community and university resources to address educational problems and to meet the University's commitment to primary and secondary schools. The Center's research agenda is developed through analysis of persistent or emerging issues in schools and their communities, changes occurring in teacher education programs, and recommendations from educational authorities. In the past decade, CREP has gained national recognition for its contribution to discussions of issues such as reform of teacher education, educational equity, educational technology, school reform and restructuring, urban and multicultural education, interventions for at-risk students, and using formative evaluation methods for school improvement decision-making. Center for Health Services Research The Center for Health Services Research is housed in the Division of Health Administration. The Center emphasizes collaborative, multi-disciplinary research focusing on issues in health care management, leadership, financing, economics, and administration. The Center's goal is to serve as a strong partner and resource for health care organizations, both public and private, in the Mid-South region. Center for Manpower Studies The Center for Manpower Studies, located in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics, conducts research on employment and training-related topics and provides technical assistance to federal, state, and local agencies. It also offers a variety of training programs for human resource development agencies throughout the southeast. Edward J. Meeman Biological Station The Edward J. Meeman Biological Station was established in 1967 to encourage and foster scientific pursuits in natural history, ecology, and environmental biology. Located about 23 miles northeast of the main campus and adjacent to Meeman-Shelby Forest State Park in northwestern Shelby County, the 623-acre station (with laboratory, classroom, and small conference facilities) provides students and faculty from the University of Memphis, as well as visiting investigators, with a unique site for research, teaching, and service activities. The station is an integral part of the Department of Biology. Ecological Research Center The Ecological Research Center (ERC) of the Department of Biology is organized to conduct and coordinate research, teaching, and service activities in ecology and related areas. Major areas of research include: fish culture, water quality, wildlife biology, endangered and threatened species, systematics, and physiological responses of organisms to the environment. The teaching program of the ERC provides a training program for students interested in pursuing careers in various professional fields and affords an opportunity for students to participate in activities involving contemporary environmental problems. Public service activities are primarily directed toward promoting environmental awareness and providing information and consultation services to those concerned with environmental problems. The Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities The Center for the Humanities was founded in 1987 and renamed in 1991 in memory of Dr. Marcus W. Orr, Professor of History. Its purpose is to support teacher and course development, independent and collaborative research, and public programs that will foster an understanding of the importance of the humanities and establish a sense of intellectual community among humanities faculty at the university. The center sponsors visiting scholars, course development grants, lectures, and a Humanities Fellows Program that supports faculty scholarship. Center for Research on Women Founded in 1982, the Center for Research on Women (CROW), located in the College of Arts and Sciences is nationally recognized for its pioneering work on race, class, and gender. CROW's mission is to conduct, promote and disseminate scholarship on women and social inequality. Its approach to research, theory and programming emphasizes the structural relationships among race, class, gender and sexual identity, particularly in the U.S. South and among women of color. CROW-affiliated faculty span the University. They are currently engaged in action-oriented, community-based research on women in Memphis and the U.S. South; historically grounded research that makes visible global processes affecting the persistence of inequalities in the U.S. South; and the development of feminist theories and methods. CROW offers postdoctoral fellowships to scholars studying race and gender in the U.S. South, and provides graduate assistantships to students enrolled in the M.A. program in sociology. Center for Urban Research and Extension The Center for Urban Research and Extension provides technical assistance, research and other services for neighborhood improvement in three Memphis Enterprise Neighborhoods. The Center supports the City of Memphis' Enterprise Community program, and collaborates with neighborhood residents as they embark upon various efforts in revitalizing their neighborhood. Chucalissa Indian Village and Museum (C. H. Nash Museum) This partly reconstructed prehistoric Indian village on its original site and the museum are operated by the Department of Anthropology as an educational and research facility. The indoor and outdoor exhibits are designed to reconstruct prehistoric Indian life in the Mid-South. Students are trained in the techniques of excavation, restoration and museum operations. The courses taught are listed in the Department of Anthropology offerings. Chucalissa is located 17 miles from the main campus. Integrated Microscopy Center The Integrated Microscopy Center provides facilities and expertise in the field of light, coufocal and electron microscopy. Users of the center include researchers and graduate students in the biological and physical sciences. The Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology The Institute, founded in 1984 and designated a Tennessee Center of Excellence in 1985, is a component of the Art Department at the University of Memphis. The Institute is dedicated to the study of the art and culture of ancient Egypt through teaching, research, exhibition, and excavation. It is staffed by egyptologists and art historians associated with the department's art history program. Its research library consists of more than 6000 egyptological books and periodicals including rare and out-of-print volumes. The Art Museum at the University of Memphis houses the Institute's growing collection of Egyptian antiquities, the largest in the Mid-South. The Institute also sponsors an epigraphic project at The Great Hypostyle Hall of Karnak Temple in Luxor, Egypt, and the excavation of the tomb of Pharaoh Amenmessse in the Valley of the Kings. Institute for Intelligent Systems The Institute is designed to bring together research and training in the broad areas of cognitive science, complex dynamical systems, artificial intelligence, and massively parallel computing (neural computing). Current research includes basic research supported by grants from funding agencies and applied research supported by industrial/governmental contracts. Ideas and techniques for research are gathered from the disciplines of cognitive psychology, computer science, philosophy of mind, neuroscience, linguistics, and mathematics. Training should include graduate courses, thesis and dissertation research, and industrial training in the form of workshops, seminars, and employee research participation. Regional Economic Development Center (REDC) The Regional Economic Development Center represents the University in its outreach function in the field of economic development planning. In providing technical and management assistance to the public and private sectors, the Center also serves as a laboratory for interdisciplinary research and service by faculty and graduate students in solving problems of urban and regional development. The Center's professional planning staff have academic appointments and teach courses in City and Regional Planning. REDC is an outreach unit of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy. Speech and Hearing Center Located at 807 Jefferson Avenue in the medical center of Memphis, this facility became affiliated with the University in 1967. An additional site is located on the South Campus in building #44. Both locations serve children and adults with communication disorders. Students at the university are seen at no charge, while faculty and staff are seen for 50% of normal charges. The University administers and operates the center in cooperation with the Board of Directors of the Memphis Speech and Hearing Center, Inc. Other Research Units In addition to the units described above, the University of Memphis also recognizes a wide array of other research- oriented units: Anthropological Research Center Barbara K. Lipman Early Childhood School and Research Institute Bureau of Sport and Leisure Commerce Center of Community Health (joint with UT Memphis) Center for River Studies Computational Research of Material Institute Exercise and Sport Science Laboratories Federal Express Center for Cycle Time Research Groundwater Institute Highwater Recording Company Institute for Egyptian Art and Archaeology Institute for Gambling Education and Research Institute for Governmental Studies and Research National Science Foundation Industry/University Cooperative Research Center for Bio-Surfaces Site Neuropsychology Research Laboratory Oral History Research Office Religious News Association Archives Robert Wang Center for International Business Southern Music Archive Transportation Studies Institute W.H. Feinstone Center for Genomic Research Recognized Centers and Chairs of Excellence The University of Memphis has been designated by the Tennessee Higher Education Commission as a location for centers and chairs of excellence. The units listed below receive special funding by the State in recognition of their status. Centers of Excellence Center for Applied Psychological Research Center for Earthquake Research and Information Center for Research Initiatives and Strategies for the Communicatively Impaired Center for Research in Educational Policy Center of Excellence in Egyptian Art and Archaeology Chairs of Excellence Accounting (2) Art History Audiology &amp; Speech Language Pathology Biomedical Engineering (2) Combinatoric Mathematics Economics and Managerial Journalism English Finance Free Enterprise Management International Business (2) International Economics Journalism Judaic Studies Law Management Information Systems Molecular Biology Nursing Philosophy Psychology Real Estate Sales Urban Education Academic Personnel Services The Office of Academic Personnel Services conducts the University of Memphis' program for student evaluation of instruction. The Student Evaluation of Teaching Effectiveness (SETE) uses a comprehensive approach for collecting, analyzing, and reporting student reactions to certain aspects of classroom instruction. All teaching faculty are required to participate in the student evaluation program. SETE is not to be administered during the week of final exams. Faculty receive the completed forms and a computer generated summary at the beginning of the following semester. These documents, which are an important part of the dossier prepared for tenure and promotion, also provide useful information to individual faculty members for course development and/or improvement of instruction. International Students Office in the Center for International Programs and Services The Office of International Students advises international students regarding immigration, health, housing, social, personal, and financial concerns. Besides advising individual students, the office advises the International Students Council. The council represents six national student associations: the African Student Association, the Chinese Student Association, the Indian Student Association, the Korean Student Association, the Malaysian Student Association, and the Muslim Student Association. The office also organizes a four-day orientation for new students each semester as well as social and cultural events that encourage international students' involvement in the campus community and help ease their transition into the American way of life. International Night, the biggest event of the year, provides an opportunity for the international students to share their traditional food and entertainment with the campus and the Memphis community. Psychological Services Center The Psychological Services Center, located on the first floor of the Psychology Building, offers both psychological evaluations and therapeutic services to children and adults. Alumni The University of Memphis Alumni Association has offices located in the Alumni Center on campus. The staff serves the University of Memphis Alumni Association and provides a communication linkage to the University for graduates and former students. The Alumni Association and staff also offer special services for current students and serve as the sponsors for the University's Student Ambassador Board. Oak Ridge Associated Universities Since 1971, students and faculty of the University of Memphis have benefited from the University's membership in Oak Ridge Associated Universities (ORAU) is a consortium of 88 colleges and universities and a contractor for the United States Department of Energy (DOE) located in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. ORAU works with its member institutions to help their students and faculty gain access to federal research facilities throughout the country; to keep its members informed about opportunities for fellowship, scholarship, and research appointments; and to organize research alliances among its members. Through the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education (ORISE), the DOE facility that ORAU operates, undergraduates, graduates, postgraduates, as well as faculty enjoy access to a multitude of opportunities for study and research. Students can participate in programs covering a wide variety of disciplines including business, earth sciences, epidemiology, engineering, physics, pharmacology, ocean sciences, biomedical sciences, nuclear chemistry, and mathematics. Appointment and program length range from one month to four years. Many of these programs are especially designed to increase the numbers of underrepresented minority students pursuing degrees in science- and engineering-related disciplines. A comprehensive listing of these programs and other opportunities, their disciplines, and details on locations and benefits can be found in the ORISE Catalog of Education and Training Programs, which is available at , or by calling either of the contacts below. ORAU's Office of Partnership Development seeks opportunities for partnerships and alliances among ORAU's members, private industry, and major federal facilities. Activities include faculty development programs, such as the Ralph E. Powe Junior Faculty Enhancement Awards, the Visiting Industrial Scholars Program, consortium research funding initiatives, faculty research and support programs as well as services to chief research officers. For more information about ORAU and its programs, contact Andrew Meyers, Vice Provost for Research, ORAU Councilor for the University of Memphis; Monnie E. Champion, ORAU Corporate Secretary, at 423.576.3306; or ORAU at . Extended Programs THE OFFICE OF PUBLIC SERVICE serves as a prime contact for individuals and organizations outside the University. Through this office, access may be gained to University facilities and resources. THE MEMPHIS SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTER is organized to provide business development services to new and existing small business firms throughout West Tennessee. These services add to the economic development efforts of the local communities by adding and retaining employment. Special attention is given to women, minority, and veteran-owned businesses. LAMBUTH CAMPUS offers a wide variety of undergraduate and graduate courses and degree programs to students living in the Jackson area. THE CONTINUING EDUCATION SHORT COURSE PROGRAM serves as an important link to the Memphis community, providing comprehensive, non-credit programs ranging from professional development to personal enrichment. The program is designed to narrow the education gap left by the degree-awarding academic programs at the University of Memphis, thus complementing the University's mission of service to the community. The program is strongly service-oriented, providing general interest instruction to learners of all ages, regardless of their educational background. The Short Course Continuing Education product is high quality, affordable, and requires no formal admission to the University. THE KEEP TENNESSEE BEAUTIFUL program, established in 1983, serves as the state Keep America Beautiful agency and state resource center for litter prevention and proper solid waste management education. Keep Tennessee Beautiful is funded by Tennessee Department of Transportation. Course Descriptions Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/29/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .