#http://www.memphis.edu/cs/news_and_events/news/2015_fac_positions.php
Assistant/Associate Professor Positions Available - Computer Science - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Computer Science About Future Students Current Students Research People Contact Hiring News &amp; Events Department News Upcoming Events Colloquium Undergraduate Colloquium Newsletters Home Computer Science News &amp; Events Assistant/Associate Professor Positions Available Assistant/Associate Professor Positions Available Posted on 2015-10-09 The Department is seeking candidates for multiple Assistant/Associate Professor positions beginning Fall 2016, pending availability of funds. Exceptionally qualified candidates in all areas of computer science are invited while candidates with expertise in the following areas are particularly encouraged to apply: big data, systems &amp; networks, security &amp; privacy, CS education, and software engineering, as well as candidates engaged in interdisciplinary research. Successful candidates are expected to develop externally sponsored research programs, teach both undergraduate and graduate courses and provide academic advising to students at all levels. Applicants should hold a Ph.D. in Computer Science, or related discipline, and be committed to excellence in both research and teaching. Salary is competitive and dependent upon qualifications. The Department of Computer Science ( ) offers B. S., M.S., and Ph.D. programs as well as a graduate certificate in Information Assurance and an M.S. program in Bioinformatics (through the College of Arts and Sciences). The Department has been ranked 55th in the nation among CS departments with federally funded research. The Department regularly engages in large-scale multi-university collaborations across the nation. CS faculty lead NIH-funded Big Data "Center of Excellence for Mobile Sensor Data-to-Knowledge (MD2K)" and the "Center for Information Assurance (CfIA)". In addition, CS faculty work closely with multidisciplinary centers in the campus such as the "Institute of Intelligent Systems (IIS)". Application review begins December 1, 2015 and may continue until the positions are filled. To apply, please visit . Include a cover letter, curriculum vitae, statement of teaching philosophy, research statement, and three letters of recommendation. Direct inquiries to Joyce Stevenson ( jkstvnsn@memphis.edu ). A background check will be required for employment. The University of Memphis, a Tennessee Board of Regents Institution, is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. We urge all qualified applicants to apply for this position. Appointment will be based on qualifications as they relate to position requirements without regard to race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age, disablity, or veteran status. A summary of the Department as of Fall 2015 is provided below: Students Undergraduate 263 Graduate MS 49 PhD 42 The Department directly supports 11 Ph.D. and 17 M.S. students through graduate assistantships . In addition, 17 Ph.D. and 6 M.S. students are supported through research grants. 7 Ph.D. students receive support from other departments on campus or from their companies/native governments, making a total of 35/42 supported Ph.D. students. Both undergraduate and graduate students have earned a number of accolades at the local, national, and international levels. Faculty The Department has 13 full-time faculty , 10 of whom are tenured or tenure-track. Our faculty include 5 full professors, 2 IEEE Fellows, an ACM Distinguished Speaker , and the first state-endowed chair of excellence in computer science in Tennessee. Faculty have been recognized extensively for their accomplishments. The awards conferred on individual faculty have included the Willard R. Sparks Eminent Faculty Award, Dunavant Professorship, Thomas W. Briggs Foundation Excellence in Teaching Award, College of Arts and Sciences Meritorious Faculty Award, and Early Career Research Award. Research Grant Funding The Department is involved in two major national research initiatives: the MD2K Center of Excellence with Cornell, Georgia Tech, University of Michigan, Northwestern, Ohio State, Rice, UCLA, UCSD, UCSF, UMass Amherst, and West Virginia, along with Open mHealth; and Named Data Networking: Next-Phase with Colorado State, University of Arizona, UCLA, UCSD, UIUC, University of Michigan, and Washington University. With about $6.5M in active grants , we have the highest per-capita research funding of any department on campus. We were recently ranked 55th among nationwide CS departments in federally funded research expenditures. Interdisciplinary Institutes and Centers Center for Information Assurance We are designated as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance Education and Research ( CAE/IAE, CAE/R ) by the NSA. Institute for Intelligent Systems Systems Testing Excellence Program Publications Our faculty and students publish high-quality research in multiple areas of Computer Science. In 2014, they published 34 conference papers, 11 journal papers, and 6 books/book chapters. Our faculty and students have published in top-tier venues in: Mobile Computing : ACM MobiCom, ACM UbiComp, IEEE/ACM Transactions on Mobile Computing Networking : IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, IEEE INFOCOM Sensors : ACM SenSys, ACM/IEEE IPSN, ACM Transactions on Sensor Networks Bioinformatics : BMC Genomics, BMC Bioinformatics, ACM BCB Human-Computer Interaction : ACM CHI, ACM UbiComp Evolutionary Computing : ACM GECCO Software Engineering : ICSE Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence : AAAI, NIPS, ECML Computational Linguistics : ACL, COLING News &amp; Events Department News Upcoming Events Colloquium Undergraduate Colloquium Newsletters News &amp; Events Weekly colloquium talks and other events Career Opportunities Internship information and job postings for students Degree Programs Information on our degree and certificate programs Courses Recent syllabi for our courses Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/26/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .