#http://www.memphis.edu/msci/research/ergodic.php
Ergodic Theory - Math Sciences - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Mathematical Sciences About People Undergraduate Graduate Research News Research Applied Statistics CLION Combinatorics Computational Analysis Differential Equations Ergodic Theory Functional Analysis Math Education Home Math Sciences Research Ergodic Theory Ergodic Theory Ergodic theory at the University of Memphis The first ergodic theorist arrived in our department in 1984. Today, we have an internationally known group of faculty involved in a diverse cross-section of research in ergodic theory (listed below), with collaborators from around the world. Members of our group have been the recipients of NSF research grants, have organized conferences and special programs both locally, nationally, and internationally, and have mentored several graduate students at both the Masters and Ph.D. levels. History Ergodic Theory may be generally defined as the study of the average behavior of systems that change with time. Its origins lie in statistical mechanics, which was developed by Boltzmann towards the end of the nineteenth century. Statistical mechanics aims to describe the collective behavior of a large number of moving particles. Mechanics is not usable for such a system since it would require to solve trillions and trillions of differential equations. Boltzmann revolutionary idea was to use statistical methods. Since Boltzmann's work, statistical mechanics has become one of the pillars of physics. In fact, quantum theory, one of the two revolutions of twentieth century physics, was invented to solve a problem in statistical mechanics. Ergodic theory was developed to try to justify the basic assumption of Boltzmann, the so called ergodic hypothesis. While it's a relatively young subject, ergodic theory is quite developed. A crucial feature of ergodic theory is its viewpoint it lends to seemingly unrelated mathematical problems. Ergodic theory has found applications in many parts of mathematics: number theory, harmonic analysis, dynamical systems, probability, mathematical physics. Correspondingly, many recent important developments in mathematics were solved using tools from ergodic theory. The importance of ergodic theory in today's mathematics is signified by the fact that some of the greatest prizes in mathematics (Fields medal, Wolf prize, Abel prize) were given out for work related to ergodic theory. Weekly Seminars The groups holds weekly research seminars with presentations from faculty and graduate students. The aim is to introduce graduate students to active research areas and guide them to a dissertation topic. Seminars can be found on the News &amp; Events page. Recommended Courses In order to carry out research in Ergodic theory, foundational courses need to be mastered as well as core areas. Foundational Courses Math 7350 - Real Variables I Math 7351 - Real Variables II Math 7261 - Algebraic Theory I Math 7361 - Complex Analysis (if interested in complex dynamics) Math 7411 - Point Set Topology (Recommended but not truly necessary) Subject-related Courses Math 6083 - Dynamical Systems/Chaos Math 7352 - Ergodic Theory Math 7311 - Topics in Analysis Additional Useful Courses Math 7016 - Fourier Analysis Math 7/8355 - Functional Analysis I Math 7/8356 - Functional analysis Math 7613 - Probability Theory For more information on course descriptions, see the graduate catalog . Members Below are reseach interest and two representative or recent publications from each member. Also included for each member is a list of research interests and personal statement. James T. Campbell , Associate Professor; Undergraduate Coordinator Research Interests: Ergodic theory, complex dynamics Personal Statement: The original attraction of ergodic theory for me was the interplay between harmonic analysis and ergodic theory, in particular questions relating the spectral theory of operators to ergodic theorems; almost everywhere convergence; and oscillation inequalities. Recently, working with recently-graduated Ph. D. student Jared Collins I became interested and continue to work in complex dynamics; and in collaboration with Randall McCutcheon, recurrence and ergodic Ramsey Theory. Campbell, James T. and Collins, Jared T. (2013) Specifying attracting cycles for Newton maps of polynomials. Journal of Difference Equations and Applications, 19 (8). 1361-1379. Campbell, James T., Jones, Roger L., Reinhold, Karin, and Wierdl, Máté. (2000). Oscillation and variation for the Hilbert transform. Duke Math. J., 105 (1). 59-83. Randall McCutcheon , Professor Research Interests: Ergodic ramsey theory Personal Statement: I was a visitor at Case Western, Wesleyan and Maryland (College Park) before whistling Graceland all the way to Memphis. My research falls into two broad areas, those being recurrence in ergodic theory (with applications to density Ramsey theory) and algebra in the Stone-Cech compactification of partial semigroups (with applications to color Ramsey theory), though on occasion I will resort to proving combinatorial theorems from scratch. My favorite moments are when methods these from both of these disciplines (along with, perhaps, borrowings from others) appear to be required for the solution to some problem or other. McCutcheon, Randall. (2005). FVIP systems and multiple recurrence. Israel J. Math., 146 . 157-188. Bergelson, V. and McCutcheon, R. (2007). Central sets and a non-commutative Roth theorem. Amer. J. Math., 129 (5). 1251-1275. Máté Wierdl , Professor Research Interests: Ergodic theory, almost everywhere convergence Personal Statement: I am interested in basic convergence problems, subsequence ergodic theorems, recurrence, combinatorial and analytic number theoretical connections, fourier analytic connections, applications. I have been also working in physics on the foundations of thermodynamics. I held visiting positions at Ohio State University, Indiana University, Bloomington, University of Maryland, Northwestern University, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Mathematical Sciences Research Institute, Berkeley, Tours, France. Chan, T. H., Kumchev, A. V., and Wierdl, M. (2010). Additive bases arising from functions in a Hardy field. Acta Math. Hungar., 129 (3) 263-276. Jones, Roger L., Kaufman, Robert, Rosenblatt, Joseph M., and Wierdl, Máté. (1998). Oscillation in ergodic theory. Ergodic Theory Dynam. Systems, 18 (4). 889-935. Alistair Windsor , Associate Professor Research Interests: Dynamical systems and ergodic theory Personal Statement: Prior to coming to the University of Memphis I held positions at the University of Manchester, Manchester, England, and the University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas. My early work was in constructing smooth systems, such as might appear in a physical system, with specified ergodic properties. worked more generally in the area of smooth dynamical systems including some work on integral equations, dynamical cohomology, and some applications to tiling theory. Since coming to Memphis I have made some forays into combinatorial ergodic theory. de la Llave, Rafael and Windsor, Alistair. (2011). Smooth dependence on parameters of solutions to cohomology equations over Anosov systems with applications to cohomology equations on diffeomorphism groups. Discrete Contin. Dyn. Syst., 29 (3). 1141-1154. Fayad, B. R., Saprykina, M., and Windsor, A. (2007). Non-standard smooth realizations of Liouville rotations. Ergodic Theory Dynam. Systems 27 (6). 1803-1818. Research Applied Statistics CLION Combinatorics Computational Analysis Differential Equations Ergodic Theory Functional Analysis Math Education Contact Us How to contact us, and whom to contact about what. Student FAQ Student resources for advising, tutoring, and registering for classes. ALEKS Information on the ALEKS computerized placement test. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .