#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/pdfs/socialworkershandout.pdf
What Is a Social Worker? A social worker is a highly trained licensed professional who can help people with problems in living Social workers are: LBSW Œ Licensed Bachelor™s of Social Work LMSW Œ Licensed Master™s of Social Work LCSW Œ Licensed Clinical Social Worker DSW Œ Doctorate Social Worker (Practice) Ph.D. Œ Doctor of Social Work Who Needs a Social Worker? The elderly, children, those taking care of the elderly or children, married people, single people, sick people, poor people, recent immigrants, urban dwellers, people living in rural areas, people grieving, people with a substance addiction, people at a career crossroads, people organizing a community. People who want to live to their fullest potential What Can a Social Worker Do for Me? A social worker can help you find the resources you need A social worker can help you understand your own feelings A social worker can help you define your own goals A social worker can help you process grief A social worker can help you be the best you can be A social worker can advocate for you A social worker can help management and labor understand each other better How Does a Social Worker Help? A social worker: Looks at a problem from many different perspectives Finds the cause of the problem by working from a diverse theoretical base Works with the client to find the desired outcome and then uses best practices based on scientific research to achieve the goal Always works WITH the client and respects the client™s right to make his or her own decisions Social Workers: Where Are They? Social Workers were instrumental in crafting the Social Security Act in 1935 Have been involved in peace-keeping efforts in N. Korea since the 1990™s Are involved in environmental protection efforts Are involved in Human Rights struggles all over the world Are involved in community organizing in small and large communities in the United States and all over the world . . . And in hospitals, social service agencies, nursing homes, adoption agencies, schools, churches, corporations, the government . . . Where Can I Find a Social Worker? The Tennessee Department of Human Services - The Tennessee Board of Social Work Licensure - *social workers, social work, and social services are about promoting social integration in all cases for all people, wherever people find themselves* DepartmentofSocial WorkUniversity ofMemphis 226 McCord Hall Memphis,TN38152