#http://www.memphis.edu/architecture/facultystaff/
Architecture Faculty and Staff - Department of Architecture - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Architecture About Programs Community Engagement Faculty + Staff Alumni Tenure + Promotion Information Tenure + Promotion Guidelines Faculty Handbook Engaged Scholarship Faculty Information for CCFA Faculty and Staff Home Department of Architecture Faculty + Staff Faculty + Staff Michael Hagge, MArch, MCRP, MPA Chair, Department of Architecture Benjamin W. Rawlins Jr. / Union Planters Professor JO404C | 901.678.2677 E-Mail Sherry Bryan, MArch, MS (Arch), BS Director, Architecture Program Director of Graduate Studies in Architecture JO404D | 901.678.3302 E-Mail Michael Chisamore, MArch, BPS (Arch) Director, Interior Design Program Director, Center for Sustainable Design JO411 | 901.678.4914 E-Mail Jennifer Barker, MArch, BArch First Year Coordinator JO408 | 901.678.2724 E-Mail Jenna Thompson, MArch, BArch, BIA Sustainability Coordinator JO408 | 901.678.2724 E-Mail Tim Michael, MArch, BSET (Arch) JO304 | 901.678.2724 E-Mail Jeanne Myers, MHP, BArch JO408 | 901.678.2724 E-Mail James Williamson, MArch, BA JO406 | 901.678.5669 E-Mail Adjunct Faculty Steve Auterman, MUD, BArch JO308 | 901.678.2724 E-Mail Pam Hurley, MArch, MFA, BFA JO408 | 901.678.2724 E-Mail Josh Jackson, MArch, BArch JO308 | 901.678.2724 E-Mail Andy Kitsinger, MCRP, BArch JO308 | 901.678.2724 E-Mail Andrew Parks, MArch, BFA (Arch), BSET (Arch) JO308 | 901.678.2724 E-Mail Frank Ricks, BSAT (Arch) JO308 | 901.678.2724 E-Mail Jimmie Tucker, MArch, BArch JO308 | 901.678.2724 E-Mail Staff Becky Ward JO404A | 901.678.2724 E-Mail Lobby Desk JO404 | 901.678.2724 E-Mail Mailing Address Department of Architecture 404 Jones Hall The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 All Department of Architecture faculty members hold the appropriate degree for their area of instruction and bring many years of professional practice into the design studios and professional/technical courses. Faculty interests and research areas include architectural design, architectural history and theory, sustainable design and materials, structural systems, "affordable" residential design, urban design, interior design, preservation, design foundations, building information modeling, and three-dimensional computer modeling. In addition to the regular faculty, local architects and designers participate in critiques and also work with students in other ways to enhance the overall learning experience. Degrees: MArch (Master of Architecture); MCRP (Master of City + Regional Planning); MUD (Master of Urban Design); MHP (Master of Historic Preservation); MPA (Master of Public Administration); MFA (Master of Fine Arts); MA (Master of Arts); MS (Master of Science); BArch (Bachelor of Architecture); BIA (Bachelor of Interior Architecture); BFA (Bachelor of Fine Arts); BPS (Bachelor of Professional Studies); BSET (Bachelor of Science in Engineering Technology / Architecture); BS (Bachelor of Science); BA (Bachelor of Arts). Tenure + Promotion Information Tenure + Promotion Guidelines Faculty Handbook Engaged Scholarship Faculty Information for CCFA Faculty and Staff Resources Portfolio Requirements, Policies and Procedures, Scholarships, Awards, Students Organizations, Advising, Professional Registration News + Events Gallery Accreditation Architecture, Interior Design, Links, Reports Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .