#http://www.memphis.edu/anthropology/news-events/
News and Events - Department of Anthropology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Student Life Resources News and Events Current Past Events Home Department of Anthropology News and Events News and Events Drs. Linda Bennett and Dr. Ruthbeth Finerman have been selected as part of a panel at the upcoming AAA meeting. The panel is titled "Responding to Student Concerns (Part 2): Strategies for Preparing Anthropology Students for the Real Job Market" at the November 2015 AAA meetings in Denver, CO . This year's theme is "Familiar Strange". Dr. Stan Hyland will fill in for Dr. Finerman. The U of M Department of Anthropology is proud to sponsor the 14th annual environmental justice conference, in partnership with the Sierra Club. Keynote speakers at this year's conference include Minnesota Congressman Keith Ellison and Sierra Club national President Aaron Mair. Parking and lunch are free, and the conference is open to all members of the Memphis community. For a full list of workshops and speakers, and to register, please visit the conference website: Graduate Students Participate in #2015Encuentro hosted by the Student/Farmworker Alliance "80 students and young people converge in Immokalee for #2015Encuentro, 15+ actions in the works for upcoming 'Schooling Wendy's' National Week of Action" Click Here for more information about the events and to check out the beautiful photos New Publication by Dr. Keri Vacant Brondo in the Journal of Sustainable Tourism Titled: The spectacle of saving: conservation voluntourism and the new neoliberal economy on Utila, Honduras. "Drawing on ethnographic research on Utila, Honduras, this paper suggests that conservation volunteerism suffers from 'fictitious conservation', surrounded by 'spectacle'". Click here to view the full abstract Announcing the ALSAC/St. Jude Children's Research Hospital Business and Design Ethnography Fellowship Program We are pleased to announce a new fellowship program for MA students in applied anthropology seeking to work in user experience and organizational anthropology. The ALSAC/St. Jude Business and Design Ethnography Fellow will receive core training in ethnographic methods and apply their skills 20 hours a week throughout the Academic Year calendar in a research support role within the ALSAC/St. Jude's Donor Experience Management department. Fellow Selection: Applicants must first meet the requirements for admission to the Graduate School at the UofM and the Department of Anthropology. Applicants to the fellowship program would be screened by a review committee comprised of UofM faculty and the Senior Director of Donor Care and Director of Donor Experience Management at ALSAC/St. Jude. Questions? Contact Dr. Keri Brondo at kbrondo@memphis.edu The 2015 SEAC Public Outreach Grant was awarded to Dr. Robert P. Connolly Of the C.H. Nash Museum at Chucalissa , University of Memphis, Robert Connolly received the award for a tourism-focused project entitled "Promoting Prehistoric Sites Along the Mississippi River in the Southeast US." Dr. Kathryn Hicks and Dr. Keri Brondo recent contributions to Anthropology and Environment Society The Anthropology and Environment Society's blog, ENGAGEMENT, recent post is titled University of Memphis and the Sierra Club Team up to Promote Education, Advocacy &amp; Activism at Grassroots Environmental Conference has contributions by Dr. Kathryn Hicks and Dr. Keri Brondo The dynamic blog Anthropologizing provides interviews with anthropologists outside of University settings. The blog houses interview transcripts of several University of Memphis Alumni, including Christin Reeder, Amy Schaftlein, Jesse Smith, Mia Madison, Susanne Salehi, Allison Hennie, Harmoney Farner and Stacey Burgin. Recent Past News and Events sponsored by the Department of Anthropology Master's candidates organize screening and panel discussion of "Beyond Babyland" documentary Master's candidates and Partners in Health | Engage Memphis group members Jenessa Gebers, Taylor Arnold, Daryl Stephens, Leslie Salama, Caleb Klipowicz, and Alicia Clark partnered with students from other departments and anthropology faculty members Dr. Ruthbeth Finerman and Dr. Kathryn Hicks to organize the public event that explores the high infant mortality rates in Memphis. The panel includes anthropology faculty, alumni, and local medical professionals involved in maternal and child health. The event was held on Saturday, March 21st. Chucalissa Relic Run 5k For the 17th consecutive year, the C.H. Nash Museum at Chucalissa will host its Relic Run 5K on Saturday, March 7 2015! Interested in volunteering? Contact Nur Abdalla @ nsbdalla@memphis.edu The Anthropology Club is participating in supporting and organizing the Freedom Tour: Standing together for Higher Wages and Justice for All. Event will take place February 26th, at 6:00pm in UC Ballroom. National Anthropology Day is Thursday, February 19th, 2015! "The American Anthropological Association is celebrating anthropology and anthropologists across the world through the declaration of National Anthropology Day" Dr. Robert Connolly Co-Publishes article in Interpreting African American History and Culture The full article is titled Making African American History Relevant Through Co-Creation and Community Service Learning Masters Candidate Steve Payne published in Jacobin Magazine Steve's article covers the recent lockout at Kellogg's Tennessee cereal factory and the workers' response to this tactic. Dr. Stanley Hyland inducted into the Academy of Community Engagement Scholarship Dr. Hyland was nominated and elected by his peers because of his excellence in collaboration with communities and the university, while addressing critical issues of mutual benefit. Dr. Keri Brondo elected to the Executive Board of the American Anthropological Association Dr. Brondo was elected by her peers for this important service role. Dr. Kathryn Hicks promoted from Assistant to Associate Professor See her publication in the latest issue of Medical Anthropology Quarterly . Taylor Arnold completes internship with the National Farm Medicine Center With Ivanna Pereyra of Salisbury University, he spent eight weeks in Marshfield, Wis., working on Seguridad en las Lecherias, testing culturally appropriate occupational safety and health training for immigrant dairy workers. Dr. Micah Trapp receives Learn and Serve Grant Dr. Trapp will use the grant to involves students in her Food, Culture and Power course in research with the Memphis and Shelby County Food Advisory Council. News and Events Current Past Events Undergrads: Declare Anthropology your major! Join the Graduate Program Learn about applied and engaged anthropology! News and Events Find out what's happening in the Department of Anthropology Contact Us Main office location and numbers, undergraduate and graduate advising Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/28/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .