#http://www.memphis.edu/communications/socialmedia/
University Social Media - Marketing and Communication - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Marketing and Communication Marketing Toolkit News Room Social Media Publication Guidelines Contact Us Home Marketing and Communication Social Media University Social Media Follow the UofM! Follow the Tigers! Social Media Handbook Social Media Directory Social Media Pages Facebook Twitter Other ATHLETICS Baseball Football M Club Men's Basketball Men's Golf Men's Soccer Men's Tennis Pom Squad Rifle Softball Tiger Scholarship Fund Tiger Sports Properties Track &amp; Field &amp; Cross Country Volleyball Women's Basketball Women's Golf Women's Soccer Women's Tennis ACADEMICS Academic Internships Benjamin Hooks Institute Biological Sciences Bornblum Judaic Studies Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law Center for Applied Earth Science and Engineering Research Center for Earthquake Research &amp; Information Center for Research in Educational Policy Center for Research on Women Center for Research &amp; Innovation in STEM Civil Engineering College of Arts and Sciences College of Communication &amp; Fine Arts College of Education Computer Science Creative Writing Department of Architecture Department of Art Department of Chemistry Department of Communication Department of English Department of History Department of Journalism Department of Philosophy Department of Political Science Department of Psychology Educational Psychology &amp; Research Fogelman College of Business and Econ. Foreign Languages &amp; Literature Graduate School Health Promotion Degree Programs Hearing Aid Research Laboratory Helen Hardin Honors Program Herff College of Engineering History Educational Research Center Instructional Design &amp; Technology Intensive English for Internationals Intermodel Freight Transportation Institute Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality &amp; Resort Management Lambuth Campus Loewenburg School of Nursing Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities Meeman 901 Strategies Memphis Institute on Disability Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Mid-South Conference of Communicative Disorders Public &amp; Nonprofit Administration Rudi E. Schiedt School of Music School of Communication Sciences and Disorders School of Health Studies School of Public Health Social Work Sociology Special Education Program STEM Student Bar Association Study Abroad Teacher Education and Student Support Services University College University Libraries OTHER Admissions &amp; Orientation Adult and Commuter Student Services Air Force Alumni Association Annual Giving Army Art Museum Business &amp; Finance Campus Card Campus School Career Services Chucalissa Commencement Conference &amp; Event Services Confucius Institute FedEx Institute of Technology Financial Aid Office Future You Resource Center Gambling Clinic Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art MD Anderson Planetarium Memphis Intramurals Multicultural Affairs Multicultural Student Association Navy Panhellenic Association Parent &amp; Family Services Parents Association of Lipman School Political Science Alumni Residence Life Student Health Services Student Leadership &amp; Involvement SAM Sustainability Office Tiger Bike TIGUrS Urban Garden UM Tech Service Desk University Center University of Memphis Bookstore Veterans Resource Center Women in Leadership &amp; Development Who We Are What We Do Working Together Brand Standards Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/4/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .