#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/cas/esci.php
Earth Sciences - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions Earth Sciences EARTH SCIENCES (ESCI) EARTH SCIENCES Department of Earth Sciences Dan Larsen, Ph.D., Chair Room 107, Johnson Hall Additional fees are charged for some Earth Sciences lecture and laboratory courses. See the online class listings or the Expenses section of the Catalog. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: ESCI 4308-12. Special Topics in Regional Geography. (3). Geographic analysis of physical, cultural, economic characteristics of a selected world geographic region, including Europe, United States, Canada, Central America, South America. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit with a change in topic. ESCI 4370-79. Special Topics in Archaeology. (3). May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit with a change in topic. ESCI 4610-19. Special Topics In Geography. (3). (GEOG). Topics are varied and in online class listings. ESCI 1010 - Weather and Climate (4) (GEOG 1010). Atmospheric processes and geographic distribution of radiation, moisture, pressure, and circulation interacting to create weather systems and storms; oceanic influences, earth-sun relationships, global climate patterns; human interaction with atmosphere. Laboratory exercises, observations, and experiments designed to apply scientific methods. Three hours lecture, three hours laboratory per week. [G] ESCI 1020 - Landforms (4) (GEOG 1020). Agents and processes of landform development and geographic relationships of landscapes including volcanic, fluvial, glacial, and coastal environments; soil development and vegetation associations; environmental hazards to humans; maps and aerial photo interpretation as sources of environmental information. Laboratory exercises, observations, and experiments designed to apply scientific methods subjects. Three hours lecture, two hours laboratory per week. [G] ESCI 1040 - Physical Geology (4) (GEOL). Introduction to processes that form the rocks in the earth's crust; the earth's internal forces that make mountains and volcanoes; special emphasis on topics that impact the Mid-South, such as earthquakes. Three lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. [G] ESCI 1050 - Historical Geology (4) (GEOL). Overview of history of earth and its life as interpreted from rock and fossil record; origins of continents, mountain ranges, ocean basins and National Parks. Three lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. [G] ESCI 1100 - Biol Anth & Prehistory (3) (Same as ANTH 1100). Evolutionary basis of human origins and contemporary biocultural variation; fossil record of primate and hominid evolution; beginnings of human society; discovery of agriculture and emergence of complex societies; controversies in the search for human origins. ESCI 1103 - The Human Planet (4) (GEOL). Applications of physical geology to understanding, evaluating and solving problems encountered in the environment by past human populations; study in management, utilization and preservation of archaeological resources. Three lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. [G] ESCI 1301 - Survey of World Regions (3) (GEOG). (TBR: GEOG 2010). Survey of economic, cultural and physical traits characteristic of developing and industrialized nations. [G] ESCI 1401 - Intro/Cultural Geography (3) (GEOG). (TBR: GEOG 1030). Geographical aspects of human behavior; distributional patterns and interactions of such cultural characteristics as language, religion, politics, and economics. [G] ESCI 2301 - Fundamentals of Archaeology (4) (Same as ANTH 2301). Hands-on experience in archaeological methods; survey of past civilizations; critical evaluation of how modern archaeological methods and theories are applied. PREREQUISITE: ANTH 1100, recommended. ESCI 3100 - Seminar in Emergency Mgmt (3) (Same as EMGT 3100 and PADM 3100). Synthesizing and integrating the various elements of emergency management. ESCI 3131 - Severe Weather (3) Descriptive account of the physical processes important in the formation of blizzards, ice storms, thunderstorms, tornadoes, hurricanes, floods, and heat waves. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1010 ESCI 3200 - People/Culture World (3) Major ethnographic areas and selected cultures of world. ESCI 3211 - Invertebrate Paleontology (4) (GEOL). Fossil invertebrate animals and their importance in interpretation of ancient environments, evolution, and geologic time. Three lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1040, or permission of instructor. ESCI 3221 - Principles/Conservation (3) (GEOG). Development of conservation ethic and wilderness concepts; survey of environmental problems, land use, and energy and resource utilization; soil erosion and crop productivity relationships. ESCI 3311 - Mineralogy/Petrology (4) (GEOL). Classification and identification of minerals. igneous rocks, metamorphic rocks in hand specimen; geological occurrence and use of minerals; genesis and occurrence of igneous and metamorphic rocks. Three lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1020 or 1040, or permission of instructor. ESCI 3401 - Historical Geography of U S (3) (GEOG). Evolution of the cultural landscapes of the United States with emphasis on the interaction of environment and people in the development of this nation. ESCI 3430 - Economic Geography (3) (GEOG). Spatial characteristics and distribution of economic activities. ESCI 3451 - Intro/Urban Planning (3) (GEOG). Introduction to regional and urban planning emphasizing spatial relationships of physical, economic, and cultural phenomena necessary in planning process. ESCI 3712 - Sedimentology/Stratighy (4) (GEOL). Origin and classification of sedimentary rocks and mutual relationship of sedimentary rock bodies both geographically and through geologic time. Lecture emphasizes comparison of modern depositional systems with their ancient counterparts. Laboratory emphasizes hand specimen analysis and preparation of geologic maps. Three lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1050. ESCI 3802 - Oceanography (3) (GEOL 3802). Origin, chemistry, water circulation, shoreline and deep water characteristics of oceans; its role in evolution and history of earth; marine life and its ecology. ESCI 4122 - Soils and Soil Processes (3) (GEOG 4122). Processes and dynamics of soil profile development; major models of soil development examined and applied to soil genesis in Tennessee; application of soil techniques to archaeology, planning, earth sciences, and soil conservation and erosion problems; emphasis on field and laboratory techniques with field work in soil mapping and soil taxonomy. Two lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1020 or ESCI 1040. ESCI 4201 - Urbanization/Environment (3) (GEOG). Ways man has changed natural environment by urbanization and how physical features and processes influence development and function of cities. ESCI 4202 - Geomorphology (4) (GEOL). Description, origin and interpretation of landforms and their relationships to underlying structure and geologic history; processes acting on earth's surface, including active tectonics; weather; mass-wasting; climate change; and fluvial, shoreline, and glacial processes. Three lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1020 or ESCI 1040 ESCI 4211 - Physical Hydrology (4) (GEOL). Movement, storage and development of groundwater; groundwater in the hydrologic cycle; aquifer characteristics and tests. Three lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1040 and MATH 1830 or equivalent. ESCI 4213 - Field Methods/Hydrology (3) (GEOL). Practice of field methods in solving hydrologic problems. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 4211, or permission of instructor. ESCI 4214 - Climatology (3) (GEOG 4211). Climatic elements and methods of data analysis; applications of climatology in agriculture, health, economics, and architecture. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1010, MATH 1710, and PHYS 2010, or permission of instructor. ESCI 4215 - Physical Climatology (3) (GEOG). Components of earth's energy balance, emphasis on solar radiation, heat transfer, and evapotranspiration. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1010 and PHYS 2010/2011. ESCI 4216 - Synoptic Meteorology (3) Physical processes in the atmosphere applied to analysis and interpretation of synoptic (regional) scale systems using weather maps, upper-air soundings, satellite and radar imagery, and computer model output; introduction to techniques used in weather forecasting. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1010, MATH 1710 and PHYS 2010, or permission of instructor. ESCI 4231 - Water Resources (3) (GEOG). Hydrologic processes and their application to needs of cities, industry, agriculture, and recreation. ESCI 4241 - Biogeog/GIS Analyses/Ecology (3) (GEOG). (Same as BIOL 4241). Basic principles of interaction between geography, organism diversity and evolution; physical factors limiting species distribution, theories of island biogeography, geographical modes of speciation. Laboratories introduce principles of GIS, basic functions of ArcGIS, and other programs relevant to ecological studies. Two lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1120 and 1121, or permission of instructor. ESCI 4251 - Environmental Hazards (3) (GEOG). Environmental hazard and disaster experiences to investigate the nature, impact, and social responses to environmental hazards; focus is placed on relationship between nature, society, and technology in how people and places perceive, experience, and cope with environmental hazards. ESCI 4252 - Global Environmental Change (3) (GEOP). Characteristics of natural systems; magnitude of human alteration of environmental systems; history of natural changes in climate and landscape; impact of changes. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. ESCI 4261 - Plan Sustainable Cities/Region (3) Multidisciplinary and multi-scaled approach to understanding the sustainability of natural and built environments in planning cities and regions; methods for measuring sustainability; emerging development concepts and practices; technology, efficiency, social equity and public health implications of sustainability; sustainable urban/regional form of the future. ESCI 4301 - Archaeology/North America (3) (Same as ANTH 4301). Intensive study of various prehistoric cultures from earliest times until historic contact. PREREQUISITE: ANTH 1100, 1200, or permission of instructor. ESCI 4307 - Thematic Studies/China (3) Geographic analysis of physical, cultural, and economic characteristics of China and neighboring regions. ESCI 4311 - Advanced Mineralogy/Petrology (4) Crystal chemistry, optical mineralogy, igneous and metamorphic rocks under the microscope; genesis and occurrence of igneous and metamorphic rocks. Two lecture hours, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 3311. PREREQUISITE OR COREQUISITE: CHEM 1110/1111, or permission of instructor. ESCI 4325 - Archaeol Fld/Lab Techn (3) (Same as ANTH 4325). Field excavation, specimen preparation, use of survey instruments and photography, map making, archaeological record keeping; methods and techniques in archaeological laboratory analysis; emphasis on organization and supervision of laboratory procedures. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. ESCI 4332 - Intro to Geochemistry (3) (GEOL). Geological and chemical processes that govern or control migration and distribution of elements and atomic species of earth in space and time. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 3311, or permission of instructor. ESCI 4341 - Aqueous Geochemistry (3) (GEOL). Physical chemistry of aqueous solutions as applied to geochemical processes on earth's surface. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 1120. ESCI 4350 - Archaeology of Collapse (3) (Same as ANTH 4350). Emphasis on archaeology of regional politics and archaic states throughout the world. Overview of social and political collapse of complex societies. ESCI 4352 - Old World Archaeology (3) (3351) (Same as ANTH 4352). Old World cultures from first humans to early civilizations. ESCI 4376 - Analysis of Stone Artifacts (3) Outlines the basics in stone "lithic" artifact analysis through an in depth study of current techniques, instrumentation and theory. ESCI 4431 - Urban Geography (3) (GEOG). Geography of urban processes and forms; cultural, social, economic, and political aspects of the contemporary city. ESCI 4443 - Transportation Planning (3) (GEOG). Planning for various transportation modes and networks and impact they have on land use and contemporary development problems. ESCI 4502 - Computer Cartography (3) (GEOG). Use of computer mapping programs as effective techniques for visual presentation of wide variety of data. Two lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. ESCI 4511 - Remote Sensing/Environ (2) (GEOG 4511). Survey of theory and application of using color, infrared, thermal, and radar images generated from satellite and aerial photographs for geographic, geologic, environmental, and planning purposes. Two lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: one college-level MATH course, or permission of instructor. ESCI 4512 - Structural Geology (4) (Was 3512). (GEOL). Structures of the crust; geometry of folds and faults, rock deformation, criteria for recognizing structures, solution of geometrical problems. Three lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1040, MATH 1910, or permission of instructor. ESCI 4515 - Geographic Info Science (3) (GEOG). Theoretical and practical understanding of fundamental GIS concepts, capabilities, and applications; nature of geographic data and issues of data input, data models, database design, spatial analysis, data output using ArcGIS software. Three lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1010 or 1020 or 1301 or 3430 or 4501, or permission of instructor. ESCI 4521 - Quantitative Methods (3) (GEOG). Introduction to quantitative methods in spatial analysis. ESCI 4522 - GIS for Business/Social Scien (3) (GEOG). Introduction to the application of interactive computer mapping and geographic information systems software in business and social science decision making. ESCI 4525 - Adv Geographic Info Science (3) (GEOG). Design and implementation of spatial analysis approaches within the context of GIS technology; development of a sound understanding of the operational basis of modern GIS technology. PREREQUISITE: GEOG 4515, or permission of instructor. ESCI 4526 - Advanced Remote Sensing (3) Practical exercises and datasets to eleborate on fundamental skills introduced in ESCI 4511. Topics include advanced image enhancement techniques, hyper-spectral image analysis, change detection, and analysis of active sensor system (LiDAR). PREREQUISITE: ESCI 4511, or permission of instructor. ESCI 4531 - Field Methods/Geography (3) (GEOG). Basic methods of geographic analysis used in classifying, analyzing and reporting field generated data including field mapping, sampling procedures, questionnaires and archival and public document research. One and one-half lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. ESCI 4541 - Geography/Field Studies (1-6) (GEOG). Faculty conducted field trip emphasizing study of geographic phenomena. Location will vary. Topics may include physical landscapes, landaus patterns, cross-cultural analysis, micro and regional economics, or other geographical processes. Credit hours based on length of time in field. Requires field journal and report to receive credit. May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours credit with change in content. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor and completion of special registration. ESCI 4551 - Urban Planning Studio (3) (GEOG). Application of planning process to urban problems and preparation of plans for the urban area. PREREQUISITE: GEOG 3451 or permission of instructor. ESCI 4621 - Investigations In GEOG (1-3) (GEOG). Student, under faculty supervision, studies in-depth particular geographic topic. May be repeated for a maximum of 3 hours credit with change in content. PREREQUISITE: approval of instructor. ESCI 4622 - Geology Field Camp (6) (GEOL). Preparation of structural and lithologic maps in prescribed geologic areas using topographic maps and aerial photographs. Instruments used are the alidade and the Brunton compass. Offered in summer school only. PREREQUISITE: ESCI 3311, 3512, and 3712. ESCI 4680 - Applied Archaeology/Museums (3) (Same as ANTH 4680). Representations of cultural heritage in a broad array of public venues; repatriation, cultural patrimony, cultural resource management, civic engagement, rights and responsibilities of stakeholders, public involvement in museum representations, performance and education, culture and memory. ESCI 4700 - Earth Science Internshp (1-9) (GEOG). Experience working with agency in which knowledge of earth science can be utilized. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit. Credit allowed only after acceptance of report. PREREQUISITE: approval of instructor and department chair. (S/U) ESCI 4701 - ESCI Field Excursions (1-2) (GEOL). Conducted field trips during spring vacation. About 30 hours of field work follow 2-4 hours of lectures. Open to nonmajors. Among areas which may be included are Ouachita-Arbuckle-Wichita Mountains of Oklahoma; Ouachita, Ozark dome and adjacent mineral districts; central and southern Appalachians; Gulf Coastal Plain; Death Valley, CA; and Grand Canyon, AZ. Check online class listings for specific location. NOTE: May be repeated for a maximum of 8 hours credit. Dates, hours and credits to be arranged. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. ESCI 4722 - Investigation In ESCI (1-3) (GEOP). Individual or group work on topics of current interest in the broad field of earth sciences. May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE permission of instructor. ESCI 4731 - Senior Thesis (1-3) (GEOL). Original study on subject of significance to earth science to be carried on independently by student with faculty supervision. PREREQUISITE: senior standing in Geology. ESCI 4801 - Seminar in Applied Geography (3) (GEOG). Perspectives and techniques of geography applied to contemporary topics in a seminar format based on review of literature, current issues, and the written and oral presentation student work . PREREQUISITE: ESCI 1010, 1020, 1011, 1021, 1301 or 4307-12, or 3430, 3514 and two additional upper division courses selected from two of the following areas: human/economic, environmental/earth, or the techniques. Registration by permit only. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .