#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/swrk.php
Social Work - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Social Work Social Work Steven Soifer, PhD Chair Room 230, McCord Hall 901.678.2616 Susan Neely-Barnes, PhD MSW Program Coordinator Room 232, McCord Hall 901.678.3438 I. The Department of Social Work offers a program of study leading to the Master of Social Work (MSW) degree. The purpose of the program is to educate students for careers as professional social workers by combining quality evidence-based academic preparation with field practice experience. The mission of the MSW program is to educate advanced professional social workers for practice with at-risk populations. Housed within the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy, the Department of Social Work is dedicated to (a) educating social workers with knowledge, values, and skills for evidence-based practice with children and families, (b) advancing the knowledge base of the social work profession and (c) providing regional leadership in the development and implementation of policies, programs and services for at-risk populations. The program offers two concentrations: (1) Advanced Practice with Children, Youth, and Families: and (2) Advanced Practice with Adults and Families. Students are required to choose one of the two concentrations. Students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ), the requirements of the MSW program and must exhibit high integrity and moral character consistent with the standards of ethical practice set forth by the National Association of Social Workers. II. MSW Degree Program A. Program Admission and Prerequisites A faculty committee of no less than three members will determine admission to the Master of Social Work program. Admission will require a majority vote in favor of the candidate from members of the committee. The following is necessary for application: A baccalaureate degree from an accredited college or university. Admission is competitive. Generally a grade point average of at least 3.0 or better (A=4.0) for the final 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of undergraduate study is necessary for consideration. Submission of GRE test scores; admission is competitive. Experience in a Social Work related field as a paid employee, volunteer or researcher is desirable. A Professional Goal Statement (see the Department’s website for specific instructions). Provide a professional resume. Provide three professional references. a.) At least one must be from a former faculty member. b.) Two of the three must be from sources familiar with your volunteer, internship, or paid work experience Deadline for fall admissions is March 1 st for scholarship/assistantship consideration and April 15 th for regular admission. Applications received after April 15 th may be considered if space is available. There are no spring semester admissions. B. Program Requirements Students are required to complete a minimum of sixty (60) semester hours; thirty (30) hours are taken in the foundation curriculum and thirty (30) hours are required in the concentration curriculum. Thesis Option 30 semester hours of foundation-level graduate coursework (24 semester hours) and field (6 semester hours), 24 semester hours of concentration-level coursework (18 semester hours) and field (6 semester hours), and a minimum of 6 semester hours of SWRK 7996 (Thesis). All courses in the 30 semester hours of foundation-level graduate coursework (24 semester hours) and field (6 semester hours) are required and must be taken with a passing grade before concentration-level coursework, elective semester hours, independent study semester hours, or thesis hours may be undertaken. 12 hours of concentration-level coursework and 12 hours of concentration-level field and field seminar are required courses. The 6 semester hours of SWRK 7996 replace 2 electives and must be taken in two consecutive semesters. A passing score on the capstone Comprehensive Examination. The comprehensive examination for the Master of Social Work program consists of three components: 1) an evaluation of the student's ability to meet MSW program competencies in field placement; 2) a student self-assessment of her/his ability to meet all MSW program competencies; and 3) completion of a social work licensure practice examination with a score of 75 or higher. Non-Thesis Option 30 semester hours of foundation-level graduate coursework (24 semester hours) and field (6 semester hours), 18 semester hours of concentration-level coursework (18 semester hours) and field (6 semester hours) and field seminar (6 semester hours). All courses in the 30 semester hours of foundation-level graduate coursework (24 semester hours) and field (6 semester hours) are required and must be taken with a passing grade before concentration-level coursework, elective semester hours, or independent study semester hours may be undertaken. 12 hours of concentration-level coursework, 6 hours of concentration-level field and 6 hours of concentration-level field seminar are required courses. 6 semester hours of electives or independent study must be taken with the non-thesis option. A passing score on the capstone Comprehensive Examination. The comprehensive examination for the Master of Social Work program consists of three components: 1) an evaluation of the student’s ability to meet MSW program competencies in field placement; 2) a student self-assessment of her/his ability to meet all MSW program competencies; and 3) completion of a social work licensure practice examination with a score of 75 or higher. The foundation curriculum provides evidence-based knowledge, behaviors and skills for social work practice with individuals, families, groups, organizations and communities. The concentration curriculum allows students to extend the basic knowledge gained in the foundation to a more focused advanced evidence-based practice with families and children or advanced evidence-based practice with adults and families. . Both the foundation and concentration portions of the program emphasize evidence-based practice and critical thinking skills. To accommodate a wide range of student needs, the MSW program of study offers options for full-time (4 semesters of study; 60 credit hours) and extended study (6 to 8 semesters of study; 60 credit hours). Regardless of progression through the program, the educational components of each sequencing option are the same. The concentration curriculum is generally full-time (2 semesters), although students may choose to extend (3 to 5 semesters). All MSW students follow the same learning expectations for field education, take the same comprehensive exam at the conclusion of the program, and meet the same requirements for graduation. Courses are offered in the traditional classroom settings, on-line and in a hybrid format (combination of traditional classroom and on-line). Students must follow a structured program of study that includes all of the following foundation courses (30 credit hours) (unless advanced standing): 7001 Skills for Professional Social Work Practice (3) 7002 Foundation Practice with Individuals and Families (3) 7003 Foundation Practice with Groups, Organizations and Communities (3) 7005 Assessment, Diagnosis and Psychopathology (3) 7021 SW Across Lifespan (3) 7022 Foundation Practice with Organizations and Communities (3) 7025 Scientific Methods in Social Work (3) 7030 Social Welfare Policy and Services (3) 7051 Field Placement I (3) 7052 Field Placement II (3) Upon successful completion of at least 8 of the 10 foundation courses students move to the concentration curriculum, which includes 30 credit hours in either the Advanced Practice with Children, Youth, and Families concentration or the Advanced Practice with Adults and Families concentration. Advanced Practice with Children, Youth, and Families 7016 Adv. Individual Child/Youth (3) 7017 Adv. Family Child/Youth (3) 7032 Adv. Community Child/Youth (3) 7026 Program and Policy Evaluation (3) 7053 Field Placement III (3) 7054 Field Placement IV (3) 7055 Integrative Field Seminar I (3) 7056 Integrative Field Seminar II (3) Elective (3) Elective (3) Advanced Practice with Adults and Families 7018 Adv. Individual Adults (3) 7019 Adv. Families Adults (3) 7033 Adv. Community Adults (3) 7026 Evaluative Research (3) 7053 Field Placement III (3) 7054 Field Placement IV (3) 7055 Integrative Field Seminar I (3) 7056 Integrative Field Seminar II (3) Elective (3) Elective (3) C. Retention Requirements Students in the MSW program must comply with all retention standards of the Graduate School at the University of Memphis. All students are required to maintain a cumulative GPA of at least 3.00. Should the student’s cumulative GPA fall below that mark, a period of one semester will be allowed to correct the deficiency. At the discretion of the chair, the coordinator of graduate studies in the student’s college, and the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Studies, this period may be extended one additional semester. Students failing to improve their GPA to an acceptable level in that time will be dismissed from the program. No more than 6 hours of "C-," "C" or "C+" will be applied toward meeting degree requirements. No grade of a D+ or lower will count toward the degree. All degree requirements for the Master of Social Work must be completed within 6 years of initial enrollment. D. Program Requirements All students seeking the Master of Social Work degree must: Successfully complete all courses required in the program of study Abide by the honor’s statement which includes a commitment to engage in professional conduct appropriate for a Social Worker at all times in accordance with the Code of Ethics of the National Association of Social Workers (NASW). Adhere to all graduate and University requirements as stated in The University of Memphis Graduate Catalog (available from the Graduate School). Satisfactorily pass a written comprehensive examination in the final semester of study. III. Advanced Standing Program The Advanced Standing Program allows outstanding graduates of undergraduate social work programs to complete the MSW in a 37 credit hour accelerated program. Students seeking admission into the Advanced Standing Program must: 1) meet all admissions requirements for the 60 credit hour program; 2) have obtained a BA/BSW degree from an undergraduate program accredited by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) within five years of making application to the MSW; 3) have an overall undergraduate GPA of 3.0 or higher; and 4) have a GPA of 3.3 or higher in their undergraduate social work courses. New admissions for Advanced Standing students occur for summer session only. Deadline for application is March 1 st , for scholarship/assistantship consideration and April 15 th for regular admissions. Students in the Advanced Standing Program complete seven credit hours of foundation content and all concentration content. Required coursework is as follows: All of the following foundation courses: 7005 Assessment, Diagnosis, and Psychopathology (3) 7025 Scientific Methods in Social Work (3) 7050 Advanced Standing Field (1) Complete a concentration in either Advanced Practice with Children, Youth, and Families or Advanced Practice with Adults and Families. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .