#http://www.memphis.edu/cristal/stem_opportunities/students.php
UofM Students - CRISTAL - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Center for Research and Innovation in STEM Teaching and Learning (CRISTAL) About Membership STEM Opportunities Active Grants STEM Hub STEM Opportunities UofM Faculty K-12 Students Teachers Useful Links Home CRISTAL STEM Opportunities UofM Students STEM Options for UofM Students There are many opportunities for students. These include camps to prepare for math courses. internships, clubs, scholarships and more! tutoring Click here for more information on ESP Tutoring. Tiger Link The TigerLink system provides current students and graduates of the University with access to job and internship listings, career fair information, on-campus interview schedules, resume and cover letter examples, online practice interviews, and the ability to schedule career advising appointments through an online calendar system. Students will be able to access the system with the same user name and password used for other University resources such as MyMemphis. Graduates of the University may create a TigerLink account by contacting the Career Services office at careerservices@memphis.edu To access these services, use the following links: U of M Student and Alumni Login Page: Employer Login Page: Internship Opportunities Did you know that our University is ranked in the top 10 nationally for having the most successful internship programs for students. We made that distinguished list according to the "Short List," published by U.S. News and World Report. Take advantage of what the UofM can do for you, by visiting memphis.edu/internships/ . New STEM internship opportunities are posted as they become available on the CRISTAL FB page at facebook.com/CRISTALuofm . Career Services and Career Fairs Career Services offers a variety of helpful activities for UofM students to prepare for a successful career. Careers Fairs are offered twice a year at the UofM through Career Services in September and March. Internships, jobs, and career related information for a variety of fields are offered. In addition, Career Services offers services in resume building, interview skills, writing cover letters and how to dress for success. Be sure to utilize the many opportunities they offer. For more information please visit TLSAMP The UofM is a partner in the Tennessee Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation (TLSAMP) whose goal is to increase the number of underrepresented students in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) at UofM by at least 100% within a five-year period. This partnership provides mentors, tutors, supplemental instruction, and a summer bridge program. TSLAMP also serves as resource for undergraduate research opportunities and sponsors an annual student research symposium where students can present their research to faculty, the community and their peers. For more information visit memphis.edu/tlsamp/. MemphiSTEM and Math Bootcamp This five-year NSF-funded project involved STEM disciplines across campus. Through STEM clubs and networking activities, support for undergraduate STEM research experiences, mentoring, tutoring, and STEM learning communities, MemphiSTEM worked to increase the number of STEM graduates at the university. In addition, MemphiSTEM supported a one-week refresher seminar (Math Bootcamp) made available to incoming freshman and other UofM students to boost math skills, demonstrate links between math, science and engineering and broaden the knowledge of career opportunities in STEM fields. MemphiSTEM came to a close in 2015 but the legacy of this grant lives on. CRISTAL now sponsors the Math BootCamp; and we are looking forward to Math Bootcamp 2016. For more information on MemphiSTEM's influence on the UofM campus please visit memphis.edu/memphistem/. Student STEM Clubs There is a range of STEM Clubs for students at the university. The link below provides information on these clubs. The MemphiSTEM site (listed above) also provides a calendar of club activities. Please click here for a listing of STEM clubs and contact information. *This link is being updated for 2015-16. STEM Learning Communities These are learning communities that use a cluster of courses to connect different disciplines to a common theme. Communities include: Entry to Engineering— for students interested in a career in engineering or a related area of science or technology Honors STEM— for honors students in science, technology, engineering, or mathematics. Women in Engineering Living/Learning Community— for female students interested in pursuing engineering careers For more information visit S-STEM Scholarships This NSF-funded program awards scholarships to economically disadvantaged students in Engineering, Engineering Technology, Math, Computer Science, Biology, Chemistry, Geological Sciences, and Physics. The primary goal of the S-STEM program is to supplement existing resources within the UofM to facilitate a unified system of support for financially disadvantaged, upper-division undergraduate STEM students with academic potential. Our S-STEM program provides a focused, integrative experience for scholarships students by emphasizing career and personal counseling, tutoring, mentoring, career development, opportunities for summer research or application-oriented experiences, student collaboration, as well as other academic and personal advantages gained by being fully engaged in the University community. For more information visit .memphis.edu/sstem/. S-STEM scholarships are now open (as of June 23, 2015). The deadline is July 31, 2015. Click here for the application. TRIO STEM Applications for the Trio STEM funding can be found on the website below. In September 2010, the University of Memphis was awarded a second TRIO Program specifically for 120 eligible students who are enrolled in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) majors at the UofM. Students must meet the eligibility requirements to become TRIO STEM Participants. The program is very competitive with a limited number of openings each year to maintain 120 participants. The STEM Program is housed in 405 Mitchell Hall. Mr. Melvin Harding (mharding@memphis.edu) is the director for the Student Success Program and Malinda McDaniel ( mamcdanl@memphis.edu ) is the retention counselor for the TRIO STEM project. For more information visit College of Arts and Science and U of M Scholarships There are a number of scholarships available to students. Check out the link below. CAS offers travel enrichment funds for students. This is a valuable resource. Please see the link below for the application, deadline and eligibility requirements. It is also advisable to contact Sharon Harber at the following address so that she can advise you on how to submit a successful application: sharber@memphis.edu (student application) Study Abroad The UofM has excellent opportunities for students to study abroad (and some scholarships are available. ) For more information visit STEM Opportunities UofM Faculty K-12 Students Teachers Useful Links Give to CRISTAL Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .