#http://www.memphis.edu/socialwork/news.php
Department News - Social Work - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Social Work About Undergraduate Graduate People Research Resources Institute Home Social Work Department News Department Events Dr. Elena Delavega attends Bank on Memphis event to announce smartphone app to increase access to banking institutions that have been historically unavailable to many Memphis households. Fall 2015 LCSW Exam Prep Announcement and Training Schedule . Lambuth Social Work Society: Organization for University of Memphis Lambuth Campus Students The Department of Social Work is happy to announce that through the efforts of our engaged students, the UofM Lambuth Campus is now home to the Lambuth Social Work Society! Social work majors and interested students are welcomed to join. Please visit the Society website or facebook page to get involved. Media Mentions From the Commercial Appeal, October 13, 2014 Dr. Susan Neely-Barnes , associate professor in the Department of Social Work, and assistant professors Dr. Elena Delavega and Dr. Susan Elswick have been awarded a Health Resources and Services Administration Behavioral Health Workforce Education and Training for Professionals grant. The award is $473,892 during the first year, with a possible $1.4 million over a three-year period. The grant will fund the establishment of the Midsouth Social Work Professional Development Initiative , which plans to train 102 students seeking a masters in social work. Students participating in the program will receive training while providing direct services to children, adolescents or transition-age adults. The grant is part of a White House "Now is the Time" initiative. The goal is to train more behavioral-health professionals with a commitment to serve populations who are at risk or have developed a behavioral health disorder. Newsletters The Department of Social Work Newsletter is a great way to stay connected with current and pressing social work information to students, staff, faculty, and field instructors. Each month we will keep you updated on particular topics, upcoming events, and areas of interest related to University of Memphis programming and within the field of Social Work. Give us your feedback about the Newsletter, and your ideas for future newsletter publications (jobs, activities your agency is doing, research, awesome things your BA/MSW students are doing in field, etc). The Newsletters will be archived monthly online. Please enjoy our first program report: The Mid-South Provocateur - Volume 1, Issue 1 Spring 2015 January 2015 February 2015 March 2015 April 2015 FALL 2014 September 2014 October / November 2014 December 2014 SUMMER 2014 May 2014 SPRING 2014 January 2014 February 2014 March 2014 April 2014 Why Study Social Work? The study of social work prepares you for a career in a strong growth area News Stay connected with current and pressing social work information to students, staff, faculty, and field instructors. SUAPP The Department of Social Work is a part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy. Contact Us Main office and location information. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/6/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .