#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mis/2015FMIS3790001.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus MIS 3790 Enterprise Architecture Fall Semester, 2015 3.0 Credit Hours Instructor: Naveen Kumar , PhD Phone : 901 . 678.5925 (Office) E - mail: nkumar7@memphis.edu Office: FCBE #234 Office Hours: Tuesday 2:00 pm 4:00 pm , Thursday 3:00 pm 4:00 pm, or by appointment Course Overview : This course introduces the fundamentals of enterprise architecture concepts and frameworks. It also explains the purpose and importance of enterprise architectures. It explores the planning, design, assessment, and management of enterprise architectures. P articipants learn various frameworks to assess and understand enterprise architectures. This course addresses the architectural challenges faced by organizations and some methods to help organizations overcome these challenges. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites MIS 2770 and MIS 2845, and a pr e - and/or co - requisite MIS 3210 Required Texts (and Related M aterials) Goikoetxea, A . (2007). Enterprise Architectures and Digital Administration: Planning, Design, and Assessment. World Scienti fic Publishing. ISBN - 13: 978 - 981 - 270 - 028 - 5 . ISBN - 10: 9 81 - 270 - 028 - 5 Ross, J.W., Weill, P., & Robertson, D. (2006). Enterprise Architecture as Strategy. Harvard Business Review Press. ISBN - 13: 978 - 1591398394. ISBN - 10: 159 - 139 - 839 - 8 (Selected Chapters) . Case Studies o There will be 6 case studies assigned for small group analysis and presentation. Half of the case studies assigned, as well as the Ross et al. chapters, are to be purchased and downloaded from Harvard Business School Press. . The other half of the case studies, which are published in Journal of Cases on Information Technology, can be accessed at the University Library Digital Resource . p. 2 Location of Course Materials A ll course materials are located on the eCourseware web site . Course Objectives By successfully completing this course, participants will be able to : Define enterprise architecture and describe the basic components of an enterprise architecture Construct various architectural views including business process architectural view, business systems architectural view, data architectural view, applications architectural view, and technologies infrastructure architectural view Identify and select a core of enterprise architecture components Describe the interrelationships among enterprise architecture components Assess and evaluate the implementation of an enterprise architecture Work effectively as a member of a team, including demonstrating collaboration and problem - solving skills Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objecti ves for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with th e overall learning objectives as a student in the BBA program : Course Methodology Instructor presentation of material teaching fundamentals o f enterprise architecture concepts. There will be extensive class discussion and n ote - taking is essential. In - class interac tive activities, discussions , reading assignments, scenarios analysis to practice the lecture material and enterprise architecture te chniques and tools. Exams to test knowledge of the participants on the key enterprise architecture concepts covered in the class. Case Studies and project to analyze a business problem and propose alternate solutions that involve the detailed understanding of enterprise architecture concepts. of Participants In general, you should assist the instructor and your fellow classmates in creating a positive, supportive environment for learning by staying engaged in the course . You will learn as much from the collective contributions of your classmates as you will from the instructor. As a group, we will create a positive, playful, and analysis o f assigned scenarios, cases, and readings covered in the course Student's Expectations of the Professor In my role as your instructor, there are certain things you can expect from me including: well - organized and engaging learning experience, r esponse to e mails within two (2) business days, and feedba ck on all work submitted within 7 - 10 calendar days. The instructor will be as responsive as possible to requests for phone meetings as well. p. 3 Grading and Evaluation Criteria Over the semester, you will have a variety of opportunities to earn points towards your final (overall) letter grade in this course. This section of the syllabus describes the assessed work you will be doing and how overall (final) letter grades will be computed. Final Course Grades Final course grades are earned according to the following table : Point Range Assigned Grade 90 .00 - 100 .00 Points A 80 .00 - 89.99 Points B 70.00 - 79.99 Points C 60.00 69.99 Points D Under 60.00 Points F Your overall grade for the semester is bas ed on how well you perform on a mixture of formal activities including exam s , discussions, case studies, and project. A det ailed description of each assessed activities can be found after the scoring summary table below. Summary of Graded Activities Points earned on the assessed activities will be distributed as follows: Deliverable Points Project Report 20 % Presentation 10% Detailed Project Plan 2. 5% Project Abstract and References 2. 5 % Case Study Presentation 10% Online Discussions ( 4 % each) 20 % Instructor and Peer Evaluations 10% p. 4 Midterm 10% Final Exam 15% Project Each group will write a paper that involves researching a topic and application of the Enterprise Architecture concepts to a specific domain of interest . Specific instructions on the potential project topics, high level project outlines, and expectations are provided in a separate document. The project report should be at least 2000 words (~ 6 pages one and a half spaced pages i n length ), not counting the title and reference pages , figures or tables, and appendices extensive restatements of what others have stated, critiqued, or contributed. You may use the references in the library or online. There is n o limit on the number of references used; however, make sure the sources are credible. For your information, blogs, vendor sites, and sites like Wikipedia and Dictionary.com are not credible research sources. Do not use them as references. You need to use in - text citations and a r eference section (no footnotes or endnotes in this paper whatsoever ; do not use the automated footnote or endnote function in Word ). Full citations of all works should be included in the References section. Be careful to properly attribute materials found in literature sources or on the Internet. Direct quotes from references should be kept to a minimum. Although your writing ability is not the primary focus of this course, your ability to communicate is essential to your future business success . Pay close attention to what you're writing. It may be wise to have another person read your work before submitting it for grading. The pape r will be graded according to the following criteria: Exhibits convincing range and quality of knowledge, having done appropriate research Identifie s and thoughtfully analyzes and evaluates major points of view Convincing conclusions are drawn and demonstrate an understanding of investigation results and how to apply it Writing style is understandable and organized in explaining research investigation results and supporting conclusions Each team is expected to su bmit a detailed project plan, abstract, and a list of references on the dates listed in the schedule. S pecific format for the project plan is provided in a separate document. Please feel free to consult your instructor if you have questions or need further clarifications. Case Studies Participants will be assigned to a team to analyze a case study and apply learning from the research and in - class sessions. Participants will investigate how to apply the principles and frameworks of enterprise architectures in organizations. There will be six cases on various aspects of enterprise architectures. Teams will analyze the assigned case, conduct additional research on the rele vant topics, discuss the challenges in the case, and prepare PowerPoint presentations (to be delivered for distribution to the course page). The entire class will participate in online and in class p. 5 discussion of the cases, once they are posted. Depending o n which case your group has been assigned, you will either purchase it from the Harvard Business Press site, or access it via online digital content at the University Library. Cases are specifically - labeled as to where you will obtain them. The link for p urchasing the Harvard cases is: The cases from the Journal of Cases on Information Technology are available as online digital content from the University of Memphis Library. Enter the journal title in the library search utility under - by - year pages. Find your case by Volume and Number in the journal content list. You should consider addressing the following points in your case study analysis: Produce an introductory overview of the case. Do the authors address and analyze the major issues? Does the analysis incorporate the relevant concepts/tools from course notes and assigned readings properly? Are assumptions made in the analysis stated explicitly? Are the criteria for choosing among alternative recommendations clearly stated? Are the criteria appropriate? Is the plan of action, when called for, integrated in a logical way and linked to the analysis? Is the act ion plan specific, complete, and practical? Do the exhibits, if any, support and add to the text on key points? Is the paper logically consistent and effectively structured? How convincing is the analysis? Is it likely that the recommendations will achieve their intended results? Presentation Team members work collaboratively to create Power Point presentations to be shown during the PowerPoint presentation by the day listed o n the schedule section. Case study presentations should be given in 15 - 20 minutes and project presentation in 25 - 30 minutes. Every presentation will be followed by 5 - 10 minutes of a question/answer session. Include your team number and me names in the file name of the PowerPoint. Team presentations will be preloaded on a computer to save in - class time. Each team member must participate in the oral presentation. Team presentations will be graded according to the following criteria: Presentation organization and flow Completeness of presentation Length of presentation falls within the specified time minute range Identified and thoughtfully analyzes major point of view Convincing conclusions are drawn and an understanding of investi gation results is demonstrated p. 6 Online Discussions Participation and discussion are a vital part of any class. You will learn as much from the collective contributions of your classmates as you will from the instructor. Discussions help clarify the reading s and lectures, provide additional insights, and are constructed and scheduled to help you prepare for your assignments. The entire class will participate in online discussion of the cases, once they are posted. It will be the responsibility of the assigned case group to analyze and post the case study in time for class download and discussion. You will need to do two thing s each week to earn points for Online Forum Discussion: 1. Post an initial response to discussion questions. Each week, on Friday, 1 - included in the Power Point presentation posed online. Writ e a thoughtful response (minimum of 20 0 words) to the question(s) for each forum discussion topic. Responses to the case study questions may address successful strategies, questions, challenges, etc. and should reflect engagement with course materials (rea dings/lectures/resources) when appropriate. You will post an initial response to each question posted. Please post your initial response as early as possible (no later than noon on Monday). The earlier, the better. 2. On two different days, post reply commen In addition to writing an initial response, participants must also comment on at least two (2) other participant forum entries the response comments must be posted on two different days. More response s are encouraged for a more lively discussion. Continue participation in on - going discussions until Thursday noon. All responses must be thoughtful, cogent and utilize class reading materials using specific references from the texts. Expecta tions for discussions : C lass discussions are vital to successful completion of this class. Insights from each participant add to the overall learning of the entire group. Think of your online messages as public speech, as in a face - to - face classroom. perspectives. But please be civil when you disagree with others. Without tone of voice and facial expression, written words may not be interpreted as we intend. Both the initial respons e and the reply comments must be clear and concise, yet neither do overly wordy contributions that lack quality. You should give credit to the sources from which your ide as are derived (author, books, etc.). Refer to sources as you would in an in - person classroom conversation. For Perspectives on Learning The instructors will read each of your responses and may participate in the discussion; however, instructor(s) will not respond to all comments posted. In many cases the instructor may hold back and allow participants to lead the discussion without p. 7 interje that the discussion is on track and relevant. The instructors may incorporate some participant responses into discussions during live synchronous classroom sessions Please feel free to introduce other relevant sources, links, and publications to class discussions it is encouraged! Exams The midterm (10%) and the cumulative final exam (15%) will both be in - class. The objective of exams is to test participants key concepts covered in the class; understanding of the case studies assigned for homework, text readings, and hand - outs. Absence from any scheduled exam will result in an exam grade of zero unless arrangements have been made with the instructor prior to t he exam date. Instructor and Peer Evaluations Peer and instructor evaluation of participant participation will be conducted throughout the course. As part of the peer evaluation, e ach participant will rate the degree to which each member of the team fulfi lled his/her responsibilities in completing the project and case study assignments. These not his or her academic ability. Instructor evaluation of participant will be conducted according to the following criteria: W ell prepared in advance A ctively contributes to discussions and asks questions V A dheres to the in - class computer/phone usage policy Name Card Please use your name card in every class. Not only does it help your instructor in identifying who you are but it also aids fellow participants and helps in making classroom discussions more interactive. Course Topi cs Enterprise architecture frameworks Data architecture Application architecture Process architecture Technological infrastructure Criteria for selecting enterprise architecture frameworks Criteria for enterprise architecture assessment Business continuity and contingency planning p. 8 Role of emerging technologies List of Formal Assessed Activities Schedule of Activities For a complete semester schedule of readings, activities, and due dates for assignments, please refer to the Final Exam Schedule The final exam for this class will be scheduled according to the . Course Policies E - MAIL All participants are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all official course correspondence at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not regularly checking your email, Attendance All participants are expected to attend classes regularly and promptly. However, formal attendance will not be taken. When you miss classes, your grades will suffer b ecause you will miss important information and classroom interaction/discussion. Students who miss classes will be held responsible for all the in - class course content. Students have the responsibility to take all scheduled exams and turn in all assignment s by the announced date and time. The instructor reserves the right to deduct up to 50% for late assignments. Students who miss in - class sessions are responsible for completing all in - class course work with a 50 percent grade reduction. An absence from an assignment/in - any of the following situations (valid documentation must be submitted for proof) and the instructor was contacted prior to the due date: Hospitalization of the participa nt or an immediate family member due to illness or accident. p. 9 children). Summons of the participant to appear for Jury Duty or before a court. Any other excuse that has been approved by the course coordinator. The absentee participant shall submit documents supporting the above claims (hospital admission form, death certificate, or court subpoena, etc.) to the course coordinator. Upon satisfacto ry verification, the participant shall be allowed to take a make - up quiz/assignment or paper/essay in lieu of missed classroom the instructor. For participants receiving federal participant loans, any lack of engagement in the course may be treated as non - attendance and potentially impact access to student loans in the future. Adding / Dropping If you have questions about adding or dropping classes , please refer to this page on the . Academic Integrity Plagiarism is academic misconduct that will result in a grade of zero on the plagiarized assignment. Your wo rk may be reviewed using the online plagiarism monitoring software, Turnitin.com. Also, please note that all documents submitted to Turnitin.com are added to their database of papers that is used to screen future assignments for plagiarism. The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a d your Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questions about academic int egrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Participation To be successful in this course as a participant, you must stay active and involved throughout the entire semester. Students are expected participate in all interactive aspects of the course. You should also regularly communicate with the instructor as part of your overall learning experience, check into the course frequently for announcements (usually on the course home page), and actively participate in threaded discussion events (both formal and informal). You should plan on logging into the course at least three times each week. It is important you a ctively participate in the classroom discussions as well. Classroom discussions help clarify the readings and lectures and provide additional insights. The quality, not quantity, of the discussion depends heavily on you and your preparation of the assigned problems and suggested readings. You are p. 10 expected to respond or share information, when asked to do so, and ask intelligent questions to your fellow participants through classroom discussions. Classroom or Online Behavior All participants in the course should be considerate of the other course participants and treat them (as well as their opinions) with respect. The class will operate under the assumption that any and all feedback offered is positive in nature and that the intentions of the person(s) pro viding feedback are strictly honorable. Insensitivity in this area will not be tolerated. In - class computer usage should be related to the material being covered in class. The use of computer or cell phone for general Internet browsing, text - messaging, Fa cebooking, Twittering, social networking during class is extremely distracting to both the instructor and nearby participants. Please be sensitive and respectful of your classmates and instructor. If you must use any of the above communication means during the class session, please feel free to momentarily step out of the room or wait until the next break to do so. If you have any questions about online communication, you should review the Fogelman College's Netiquette website . Late Assignments Assignments and projects may be submitted anytime up to and including the date due. Please review all due dates for formally assessed work. If your work is not submitted on time, the instructor reserves the option to deduct up to 50% of the grade value for tardiness depending upon the circumstances and appropriate communication between the participant and the instructor. Late work will be accepted only up to five days after the deadline. Extra Credit There is no extra credit offered in this course. Your final grade will be computed based on your work on the formal/assessed activities previously described i n this syllabus. Inclement Weather In the event that inclement weather requires the cancellation of classes at The University of Memphis, local radio and television media will be immediately notified. Additionally, The University of Memphis has establish ed an Inclement Weather Hotline at 678 - 0888 as well as TigerText , an emergency alert text messaging service to participants, faculty and staff. This optional service is used in the event of an on - c ampus emergency, an unscheduled university closing, or a delay or cancellation of classes due to, for instance, inclement weather. Click h ere for information on TigerText. p. 11 Syllabus Changes The instructor reserves the right to make changes as necessary to this syllabus. If changes are necessitated during the term of the course, the instructor will immediately notify participants of such changes during in - class session and by individual email comm unication. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about: Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelma n Students Technical Assistance