#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/getinvolved/pouncerspals.php
Pouncer's Pals - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About Get Involved Academic Chapters Arts &amp; Sciences School of Law CEHHS Communication Sciences &amp; Disorders FCBE Engineering International MBA Journalism Kemmons Wilson School School of Nursing Masters of Public Administration Music Professional MBA University College Constituent Groups Band Frosh Camp Half Century Hispanic Alumni Lambuth Luther C. McClellan Memphis Pom UMAR Young Alumni Out of Town Atlanta Chicago Dallas Denver Houston Indianapolis Minneapolis Nashville New England New Orleans New York Orlando/Tampa San Francisco St. Louis Washington, DC Student Groups Future Alumni of Memphis Student Ambassador Board Scholarships Pouncer's Pals Home UMAA Get Involved Pouncer's Pals Pouncer's Pals The Alumni Association is proud to be the new home of Pouncer's Pals! Pouncer's Pals is an exclusive club designed for little Tiger fans. Each member must be 12 years old or younger. The membership fee for the 2014-2015 season is $30. $30 Annual Membership Includes: Pouncer's Pals Club T-shirt* Official Membership Card Quarterly Membership Packets with update and activities Exclusive invitations to special events and activities One walk around the field at a home football game JOIN ONLINE!** *T-shirt size and design based on availability. **You can register up to 3 children on the form. If you need to add additional children, please call us at 901-678-2586. ** Download an application and return by mail or fax. The University of Memphis Alumni Association is proud to announce that membership in Pouncer's Pals has nearly doubled since the organizations's restructure last year and anticipates an increase of an additional 100 members this coming fall. Thank you for your support! Recent EVents Pouncer's Incredible Pizza Birthday Bash Pouncer and his Pals celebrated his birthday at Incredible Pizza! View Photos Pouncer's Spring Fling &amp; Egg Hunt Pouncer invited all his Pals to cheer on the Women's Tigers Softball Team! One special Pal helped Pouncer throw out the first pitch. After the game, Pouncer invited all the Pals to the field for a fun egg hunt with the softball team. View Photos Pouncer's Pals Tiger Jam &amp; Dunk Contest Pouncer's Pals cheered on the Women's Basketball team against USF on January 31. Pals had the opportunity to meet and greet the team and join them on the court during the fan tunnel. Prior to the game, Pals designed their own "Go Tigers" posters. Five lucky Pals were invited to come on the court during a time-out break to participate in the Pouncer's Pals Dunk Contest. View Photos Pouncer's Spooky Soccer Trick-Or-Treat Pouncer's Pals trick-or-treated with Pouncer before the Women's Soccer game on Saturday, October 18. Prizes were awarded to the Pals with the best costumes. The Pals joined Pouncer in a Halftime dance to his theme song, "Jump." Pouncer's Pals Walk Around the Field All Pals and guests were invited to the annual Walk Around the Field during the pre-game show at the Tigers vs. MTSU football game on Saturday, September 20. Each Pouncer's Pals member received one ice cream voucher and two football tickets at check in. View Photos Pouncer's Incredible Pizza Birthday Bash Sponsored by Incredible Pizza Pals were invited to Pouncer’s Birthday Bash at Incredible Pizza in May. Thanks to everyone who came to celebrate with us! View Photos Pouncer's Spring Fling and Egg Hunt Pouncer's Pals joined Pouncer to cheer on our Tigers Softball Team on Sunday, April 13! Pouncer threw the first pitch, and Pals participated in activities throughout the game, including an egg hunt after the game! View Photos Pouncer's Spooky Soccer Trick or Treat Pals met to trick or treat with Pouncer before the Men's Tiger Soccer game. Children and families participated in a costume contest and prizes were given to the best costume and best family/group costume. View Photos Pouncer's Pals Walk Around the Field Pals gathered in Tiger Lane before the game for a tailgate and then marched to the stadium for the chance to walk around the football field during the pregame ceremonies. View Photos For more details on Pouncer's Pals, please contact Alumni Coordinator Jacki Rodriguez at jpsavell@memphis.edu or 901.678.3119. 'Like" Pouncer's Pals on Facebook! Share pictures of your lil Pouncer's Pal with us! Thank you to the proud sponsors of Pouncer's Pals! Get Involved Academic Chapters Arts &amp; Sciences School of Law CEHHS Communication Sciences &amp; Disorders FCBE Engineering International MBA Journalism Kemmons Wilson School School of Nursing Masters of Public Administration Music Professional MBA University College Constituent Groups Band Frosh Camp Half Century Hispanic Alumni Lambuth Luther C. McClellan Memphis Pom UMAR Young Alumni Out of Town Atlanta Chicago Dallas Denver Houston Indianapolis Minneapolis Nashville New England New Orleans New York Orlando/Tampa San Francisco St. Louis Washington, DC Student Groups Future Alumni of Memphis Student Ambassador Board Scholarships Pouncer's Pals Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .