#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/services/req_ug_intl.php
International Students - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Services to Students International Students International Undergraduate Admission Requirements International Undergraduate Applicants The University of Memphis believes that the presence of a balanced representation of international students on campus will enrich the educational environment of all students. Therefore, the University is authorized under federal law to enroll non-immigrant, alien students on "F-1" and "J-1" student visas. Applicants must file complete credentials before May 1 for fall admission; September 15 for spring admission; or February 1 for summer admission. Complete credentials include all the documents listed below. The international application should be completed and submitted online at . All additional required credentials should be sent to the Office of Admissions, the University of Memphis, 101 Wilder Tower, Memphis, Tennessee, 38152-3370, U.S.A. Applications and fees received after the stated deadlines will be returned. A non-refundable international application and processing fee of $50 (fifty dollars) is required of every international applicant, unless previously paid. Preferred payment of the application fee is by credit card. Applicants unable to pay by credit card should mail a check or money order, made payable to the University of Memphis. Applications will only be processed after the application fee is received. International applicants should contact the Office of Admissions for information on application procedures, qualifications, and admission to the University. Since there is considerable variation among educational systems throughout the world, international applicants will be selected on a competitive basis, after meeting the minimum standards of admission using examination scores, grade point average, relevance of academic background to intended major field of study and recommendations from the World Education Services or any credentialing service who is a member of the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services. More information may be found at The University often receives more applications than can be approved; therefore, admission cannot be granted to all applicants who meet only the minimum requirements. All transcripts, test scores, and other credentials must be accompanied by an official English translation of these documents and must be on file in the Office of Admissions by the stated deadlines before the beginning of registration for the intended term of entry. Admission Requirements for International Undergraduate Applicants 1. Required Transcripts : Applicants must arrange for the Office of Admissions to receive official copies of academic records of the applicant's attendance at secondary school, college, university, and professional institutions of learning. These transcripts must be sent directly from the high school or college to the University of Memphis. An exception is made for those who hold the bachelor's degree or its equivalent in that they need not send their secondary school records. Records should list the subjects studied and the grade, mark, or other evidence that each individual subject was completed to the satisfaction of the authorities in charge. If it is impossible for the school to send us an official copy, copies certified by an official at the American Embassy or a known world organization may be acceptable. All records must be in English. Since certificates and records filed for examination are not ordinarily returned, applicants should send certified copies if the documents in question cannot be easily replaced. 2. Required Test of All Applicants : All applicants whose native language is not English must supply results of the Test of English as a Foreign Language TOEFL or its equivalent. The minimum overall TOEFL score considered for undergraduate admission to the University of Memphis is 61 on the internet-based test (iBT) or 500 on the paper-based test (PBT). TOEFL information may be obtained by writing: TOEFL, Educational Testing Service, Princeton, New Jersey, 08540, U.S.A. All test scores must be sent directly from the testing agency to the University of Memphis. 3. Freshman Test Required: Applicants to the first year undergraduate level must submit scores on the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) or the American College Testing Program (ACT). These tests are available only in English. For information on the SAT, applicants may write to College Entrance Examination Board, Box 592, Princeton, New Jersey, 08540, U.S.A. For information on the ACT, applicants may write to American College Testing Program, P.O. Box 414, Iowa City, Iowa, 52243, U.S.A. All test scores must be sent directly from the testing agency to the University of Memphis. 4. Financial Statement: U.S. visa regulations require that certification of admission be based on both academic acceptance and satisfactory evidence of adequate funds to meet the expenses involved in the student's program of study. Applicants for an "F-1" student visa must supply, on the Affidavit of Support form provided by the university, sufficient evidence of financial support for themselves and all members of their families who will accompany them to Memphis. This requires that applicants certify that their intent is to attend the university full time and that no employment will be required. 5. Health Certificate Required: Each international student, within 30 days from the first day of classes, must submit a certificate from a licensed U.S. physician or other qualified U.S. medical authority verifying freedom from tuberculosis. Failure to do so shall result in denial of enrollment. In the event that the student either has tuberculosis or has potential tuberculosis requiring medical treatment, continued enrollment will be conditioned upon the determination by a licensed U.S. physician that such enrollment does not present a risk to others and upon the student's compliance with any prescribed medical treatment program. In order to enroll, all international students born after January, 1957, must prove that they have been inoculated with the live measles vaccine (MMR) since January, 1980. Exceptions are made for students who are pregnant or allergic to the vaccine. 6 . All international students must purchase a health insurance policy through the university or provide evidence of government sponsored health insurance before they are allowed to enroll. 7 . International students will not normally be allowed to register as transient students (those regularly enrolled and in good standing at another institution who desire to attend the University of Memphis for only a limited period of time). During summer sessions, exceptions may be granted only in cases where a student has an outstanding academic record and unusual circumstances are present. 8. International students who wish to apply for readmission to the University must meet the deadlines stated above. 9. International students must become familiar with the regulations of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) and assume responsibility for complying with these regulations. 10. Prior to the first day of class, international students should be prepared to attend a half-day mandatory new student orientation hosted by the International Students Office. Additionally, all international students must report to the International Students Office with their passport and I-20 for check-in before the first day of classes. Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .