#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/soci.php
Sociology - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Sociology Sociology Jeni Loftus, PhD Chair 901.678.4464 Wesley James Coordinator of Graduate Studies 901. 678.4464 E-mail: wes.james@memphis.edu I. The Department of Sociology offers the Master of Arts degree in Sociology. Program objectives are: (1) understanding of and competence in a broad range of substantive topics and in the major theories, statistical techniques, and methodological approaches that guide the sociology discipline; (2) development of independent research skills, including data analysis and oral and written communication of research; and (3) preparation for employment in a sociology-related field or doctoral level study. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MA Degree Program Graduate students who select sociology as a major should consult with the graduate coordinator. A. Program Admission Multiple criteria are taken into account when considering applicant admission, including, but not necessarily limited to, GPA for the last 60 hours of the undergraduate degree, letters of reference, GRE scores, the writing sample, and the availability of stipends. In addition, applicants must have satisfactorily completed courses in research methods, sociological theory, and statistics, or demonstrate equivalency. B. Program Requirements Students may choose one of two degree programs: The thesis program requires thirty (30) semester hours of graduate level work, which includes 3-6 hours of Sociology 7996 (Thesis). Students may not enroll for more than six hours of Sociology 7996 until they have successfully defended their thesis proposal to their thesis committee. NOTE: Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. At least 24 semester hours of course work must be in sociology. The oral defense of the thesis counts as a comprehensive examination. The non-thesis program requires thirty-three (33) semester hours of graduate level work and the passing of both written and oral comprehensive examinations. At least 27 semester hours must be in sociology. The student must remove all grades of incomplete from his or her record before taking the comprehensive examination. The successful completion of the following courses is required of all majors: SOCI 6312, SOCI 7210, SOCI 7320. A minimum grade of "3.0" is required in each. No more than 6 semester hours of SOCI 7912, Directed Individual Study, may be counted toward the degree without permission from the graduate coordinator. A graduate student whose cumulative grade point average in sociology drops below 3.00 will be placed on departmental review. Being on departmental review at the conclusion of a subsequent semester may result in suspension. Conditions under which continuation in the program beyond two or more semesters on departmental review will be granted must be recommended by the department's graduate committee and the department chair. If, in the opinion of the graduate committee, the chair, the College of Arts and Sciences' Associate Dean of Graduate Programs and Research, and the Vice Provost for Graduate Programs, the student is not making satisfactory progress toward degree completion, the student will be dismissed from the degree program. Students are ineligible for graduate assistantships while on departmental review, but may apply/reapply for an assistantship once their departmental review status has been removed. According to Graduate School policy, students must complete the requirements to remove a grade of "I" (incomplete) within 90 days from the end of the semester or summer term in which it was received or the "I" changes to an "F." If unusual circumstances prevent the student from removing the "I" within 90 days, a 45-day extension may be granted. It is the student's responsibility to request an extension. The department will allow students who received a grade of "I" that changes to an "F" to submit a written request to the graduate committee for a grade change. The request must be made after the student has completed requirements for the course in which the "F" was received and must spell out the reasons why the student was unable to complete the requirements for the course prior to the "I" becoming an "F." In addition, the request must be made within one year of the beginning of the semester or term in which the student enrolled in the course. If the faculty member from which the student received the "I" and the graduate committee agree that extraordinary circumstances prevented the student from completing requirements for the course before the "I" changed to an "F," they will recommend to the department chair that the student's "F" be changed. If the chair agrees with the recommendation of the faculty member and the graduate committee, the chair will recommend to the Vice Provost for Graduate Studies that the student's grade be changed. III. Accelerated B.A./M.A. Program in Sociology This program allows outstanding undergraduates to begin the coursework for the Master of Arts in Sociology during their senior year. Students are encouraged to begin planning to enter the Accelerated B.A./M.A. program early in their undergraduate career, in consultation with their advisor in the Department of Sociology. Working with the undergraduate and graduate academic coordinators, undergraduates selected into this program begin a carefully tailored course of study which will allow them to complete their B.A. degree while they also begin the coursework toward their M.A. To apply, students should have a minimum 3.25 grade point average, and must submit two reference letters and a copy of their transcript to the Sociology department. Exceptions to the minimum GPA will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Each applicant will complete an interview with the graduate academic coordinator in sociology. Students must also apply to the Graduate School for "combination senior" status, which allows them to take graduate courses in sociology. To continue in the program past the B.A., students must apply for full admission into the Graduate School and into the Sociology department's M.A. program. Up to 9 hours of graduate course work may be applied to both the undergraduate and graduate programs. Students in the accelerated B.A./M.A. program in sociology may choose either the thesis or the non-thesis option for the M.A. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .