#http://www.memphis.edu/oie/eo-aa/aa.php
AA - OIE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Office for Institutional Equity About EOAA Harassment Title IX ADA Policies Resources EOAA Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Policy Home OIE Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action AA Affirmative Action The University of Memphis is fully committed to the concept and practice of equal opportunity and affirmative action in all aspects of employment. The Affirmative Action Program is organized in compliance with several federal and state laws, executive orders and implementing regulations. As a federal contractor, the University is required to have a written affirmative action compliance program. The program must include identification and analysis of problem areas, the establishment of goals and timetables, and specific result-oriented action items designed to attain goals. Who is responsible for implementation of the affirmative action plans? All department chairs, directors, administrative officers, deans, and executive officers are individually responsible for supervising the implementation of the Affirmative Action Plans in their respective areas. The President of the University bears ultimate administrative responsibility for the implementation of the Affirmative Action Plans. A copy of the affirmative action program, including specific responsibilities and provisions for implementation and compliance, will be made available to any employee who requests it. Affirmative Action Plan for Equal Employment Opportunity of Women and Minorities It is the policy and intent of The University of Memphis to provide equal opportunity in employment to all persons. The University of Memphis hereby emphasizes its commitment to equal opportunities for all individuals and provides a program of affirmative action to ensure equal employment opportunity for such persons. This policy applies to all phases of the personnel process, including recruitment, hiring, placement, promotion, demotion, transfer, training, compensation, all other employment terms, conditions, and benefits, discipline and separation; and the policy applies to all locations within the University and to the use of all its facilities. To implement the declaration of policy herein, the University insures that all applicants for employment and all faculty and staff are aware of the location of the University's affirmative action policy. The policy is widely disseminated inside and outside the University. Further, the University will consider, through a designated grievance procedure, the complaints of any person who feels that he or she has been discriminated against on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, or Vietnam/disabled veteran status. Affirmative Action Plan for Employment of Persons with Disabilities, Disabled Veterans and Vietnam Veterans It is the policy and intent of The University of Memphis to provide equal opportunity in employment to all persons as provided in the equal employment opportunity policy. The University of Memphis hereby emphasizes its commitment to equal opportunities for applicants and employees with disabilities, including disabled veterans, and veterans of the Vietnam era and provides a program of affirmative action to ensure equal employment opportunity for such persons. It is the policy of The University of Memphis to make reasonable accommodations to the physically and mentally disabled applicants and employees throughout the personnel process. The extent of reasonable accommodation will be determined by consideration of efficient operation of the organization and feasible financial costs, as well as the needs of a disabled employee or prospective employee. This policy applies to all phases of the personnel process including recruitment, hiring, placement, promotion, demotion, transfer, training, compensation, all other employment terms, conditions and benefits, discipline and separation. The policy applies to all locations within the University and to the use of all of its facilities. To implement the declaration of policy herein, the University has provided an opportunity for presently employed disabled persons, including disabled veterans, to so identify themselves. Applicants for employment are advised of the University's affirmative action policy and are invited to identify disability conditions. Veterans of the Vietnam era are identified by reference to military service dates on the University's New Employee Self-Identification forms. Additionally, each year, employees have the opportunity to identify disability, disabled or Vietnam veteran status. The policy will be widely disseminated both inside and outside the University. Further through designated grievance procedures, the University will consider the complaints of any person who feels that he or she has been discriminated against on the basis of disability or Vietnam/disabled veteran status. EOAA Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Policy Training OIE sponsors several online training modules, available in Learning Curve. Contact Us OIE provides a range of services that support equal opportunity and nondiscrimination. How to File a Complaint File a complaint of discrimination, harassment, sexual misconduct or retaliation. Sexual Misconduct General information and resources Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .