#http://www.memphis.edu/cristal/stem_opportunities/k12students.php
K-12 Students - CRISTAL - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Center for Research and Innovation in STEM Teaching and Learning (CRISTAL) About Membership STEM Opportunities Active Grants STEM Hub STEM Opportunities UofM Students UofM Faculty K-12 Students Teachers Useful Links Home CRISTAL STEM Opportunities K-12 Students Getting Younger Students Wrapped up in STEM Unique k-12 Opportunities A number of camps, competitions and campus days are available for students to participate in at the University of Memphis. Offerings include general science, computer science, STEM and engineering. We are constantly looking for new opportunities for students K-12 that are being offered on the campus so this site changes frequently. If you have an opportunity you would like us to share in STEM, pleas contact Dr. Cathy Wilson ( ctwlson2@memphis.edu ). Please be aware that these activity links are maintained and updated by the professors/departments in charge of the respective program. CRISTAL posts their links but is not responsible for content. Links are typically updated in March and April each year. Please check this page often! For more information, please contact Erica Boyce via email: emboyce@memphis.edu or via phone: 901.678.1303. Thank you! K-12 Academic Year Activities (Fall and Spring). See Summer Activities in the Section Below. Title of Activity Type of Activity Length of Activity Dates Held (See Links for current posted dates) Faculty/Staff Coordinator Sponsor Website/ Registration Target Group “E Day” Competitions Competition 1 day Oct. Dr. Paul Palazolo HCOE Grades 6-12 North American Computational Linguistics Olympiad Competition for Linguistics 1 day Jan. Dr. Vasile Rus Computer Sciences &amp; IIS cs.me mphis.edu/~vrus/ naclo/NACLO-14.pdf Grades 9-12 Canstruction Competition to benefit the local food bank 1 day March Dr. Stephanie Ivey HCOE, AIA memphiscanstructionjr.org Grades 6-12 Statewide HS Mathematics Contest Competition to stimulate interest in mathematics 1 day April Dr. Alistair Windsor TN Mathematics Teacher Association (TMTA) tmta.wildapricot.org Grades 7-12 K-12 Summer Activities 100 Girls of Code One day workshops to teach girls how to code ! day (several throughout the summer). Summer - Starting in May Kriangsiri ("Top") Malasri Computer Science 100girlsofcode.com/memphis-tn.html Grades 5-12 Creative Video Game Design Using creative storytelling to learn video game design and programming 1 week Usually the first week in June Kriangsiri ("Top") Malasri Computer Science eventbrite.com/e/creative-video-game-design-camp-at-the-university-of-memphis-tickets-15774611287 Grades 9-12 Shelby Scholars Summer Institute Summer Camp to inspire interest in STEM 2 weeks June Dedric McGhee, SCS SCS &amp; UofM shelbyscholars.org/ Grades 6-8 Girls Experiencing Engineering Summer camp to encourage an interest in engineering 1 week Site will be updated March 15 June Dr. Stephanie Ivey Women’s Foundation of Greater Memphis memphis.edu/herff/gee/index.php Grades 6-12 (Girls) Memphis CRESH Research experience at the college level for students in HS to acquire first hand experience as a scientist 6-7 weeks Updated for 2015 June-July Dr. Firouzeh Sabri Arts and Sciences memphis.edu/cresh/ Grades 10-12 Summer STEM Academy Summer Camp to explore STEM fields 2 weeks (residential) June Dr. Angie Powell UofM &amp; TN Board of Regents memphis.edu/mediaroom/releases/mar15/stem.htm Grades 9-12 TRansportation Engineering Careers (TREC) Summer camp designed to introduce transportation engineering career opportunities 1 week Site will be updated March 15 June Dr. Stephanie Ivey HCOE memphis.edu/herff/trec/ Grades 9-12 (Boys) Summer Online Learning Experience (SOLE) Virtual Summer Math Experience 8 weeks Registration opens April 30 June-August Dr. Xiangen Hu Psychology / Electrical Eng. memphis challenge.org Grades 3-12 PreEngineering Enrichment Project (PEEP) Enrichment Program 7 weeks July Dr. Larry Houk Chemistry chem.memphis.edu/people/faculty/Houk/programs.htm#peep Grades 9-12 (Students majoring in Science &amp; Math from East HS) STEM Opportunities UofM Students UofM Faculty K-12 Students Teachers Useful Links Give to CRISTAL Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .