#http://www.memphis.edu/msci/research/deam.php
Differential Equations and Applied Mathematics - Math Sciences - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Mathematical Sciences About People Undergraduate Graduate Research News Research Applied Statistics CLION Combinatorics Computational Analysis Differential Equations Ergodic Theory Functional Analysis Math Education Home Math Sciences Research Differential Equations and Applied Mathematics Differential Equations and Applied Mathematics Main Focus of Research Interests Qualitative and Quantitative Theory of Ordinary, Functional and Partial Differential Equations, and systems of coupled differential equations arising in mathematical physics, engineering and applied sciences. These encompass both linear and nonlinear models of heat conduction, wave phenomena, material science, mathematical finance, electron density theory, quantum chemistry, suspension flows, nonlinear mechanics and elasticity, fluid dynamics, thermo-elasticity, viscoelasticity, etc; Control Theory as directed to the above models, to include optimal control theory; differential game theory; stabilization and controllability theories, in particular long time behavior and some aspects of dynamical systems; inverse problems. Weekly Seminars The group holds weekly research seminars with presentations from faculty and graduate students. The aim is to introduce graduate students to active research areas and guide them to a dissertation topic. Past seminars can be found on Events Calendar page. Recommended Courses In order to carry research in these areas, foundational courses need to be mastered as well as core areas. The particular track is tailored to fit the student's interests under the advisor's guidance. PhD students are encouraged to submit their work to research-oriented journals. Foundational Courses Math 6391 - Partial Diffrntl Equation I Math 7350 - Real Variables I Math 7351 - Real Variables II Math 7/8355 - Functional Analysis I Math 7361 - Complex Analysis Core Courses Math 7375 - Methods Math Physics I Math 7376 - Mthds Math Physics II Math 7/8393 - Differl Equatns/App Math 7/8395 - Theory Diff Equatns Math 7/8501 - Nonlinear Wave Phenomena Math 7/8504 - Partial Differential Equations For more information on course descriptions see the graduate catalog . Research Conferences PhD students are encouraged to attend various conferences in their research areas. This is in addition to the conferences and seminars frequently hosted by the Department. Job Placement PhD students of the advisors in the group have secured academic tenured positions in top rated research universities such as UC Berkeley, Northwestern University, Univ of Vanderbilt, North Carolina State, University of Nebraska, Clemson University, Texas Tech; postdocs positions at MIT, Univ. of Minnesota, UCLA, USC, Oregon State, Tapper School of Business at Carnegie Mellon, Mittag Leffler, NSF, AFOSR, and Army Fellowships; as well as high tech jobs in the private sector and at federal institutions such as: Martin Lockeed, NSA, Northrop Grumman, financial institutions (WellFargo, Suntrust); and also postdoc and regular positions abroad at INRIA (Paris), Companie General Geophysique (Paris), L'Ecole Central (Paris). The highlight is Daniel Tataru, presently Professor at UC Berkeley, receipient of AMS Bocher prize in 2002, invited speaker at ICM in Beijing and most recently elevated to membership in the American Academy of Art and Sciences. Placement of former PhD students advised by the faculty in this group include academic jobs at research universities as well as at high-tech industrial, financial and research companies both in US and abroad. Summer Funding Summer funding may be available for some advanced PhD students. Editorial Activities Several faculty members serve with no less than 30 cumulative appointments on Editorial Boards of main stream journals in the area of Applied Analysis, Applied Mathematics, Differential Equations and Control Theory, to include also the position as editor-in chief. Members Below are reseach interest and two representative or recent publications from each member. Hongqiu Chen , Associate Professor Research Interests: Partial differential equations and fluid mechanics Conservative discontinuous Galerkin methods for the generalized Korteweg-de-Vries equation (with J.L. Bona, O.A. Karakashian and Y. Xing), Mathematics of Computation 82 (2013) pp. 1401-1432. Periodic traveling-wave solutions of nonlinear dispersive evolution equations (with J. L. Bona), Discrete and Continuous Dynamical Systems 33 (2013) pp. 4841-4873. Gisèle Goldstein , Professor Research Interests: Mathematical physics, continuum mechanics, financial mathematics, quantum mechanical density functional theory, applied analysis and partial differential equations A Cahn-Hillard model in a domain with non-permeable walls, /Physica D: Nonlinear Phenomena /240 (2011), 754-766 (with A. Miranville and G. Schimperna) Chaotic solutions for the Black-Scholes equation, /Proceedings of the Amaerican Mathematical Society/, 140 (2012), 2043-2052 (with H. Emamirad and J.A. Goldstein) Jerome Goldstein , Professor Research Interests: Linear and nonlinear PDE, operator theory, stochastic processes, mathematical physics, classical analysis, applied analysis, financial mathematics Abstract wave equations and associated Dirac-type operators (with F.Gesztesy, H. Holden and G. Teschl), Ann. Mat. Pura Appl. (4) 191 (2012),631-676 . Asymptotic parabolicity for strongly damped wave equations (with G.Fragnelli, G. R. Goldstein and S. Romanelli), in Spectral Analysis,Differential Equations and Mathematical Physics, A Festschrift in Honor of Fritz Gesztesy's 60th Birthday, Proceedings of Symposia in Pure Mathematics, Vol. 87, Amer. Math. Soc. (2013), 119-131. John Haddock , Professor Research Interests: Ordinary and functional differential equations, STEM Education Parallel theories of integral equations (with T.A. Burton), Nonlinear Studies, 17 (2010), 177-197 The effectiveness of blended instruction in core postsecondary mathematics courses, (with A. Bargagliotti-Lead, F. Botelho, J. Gleason, and A. Windsor), The International Journal for Technology in Mathematics Education, 19, no. 3 (2012), 83-94 Thomas Hagen , Professor Research Interests: Applied analysis, partial differential equations, fluid mechanics Viscoelastic sink flow in a wedge for the UCM and Oldroyd-B models (with J.D. Evans), J. Non-Newtonian Fluid Mech. 154 (2008), 39-46. "Non-failure of filaments and global existence for the equations of fiber spinning" (with M. Renardy), IMA J. Appl. Math. 76 (2011), 834-846. Irena Lasiecka , Distinguished University Professor; Chair Research Interests: Applied Mathematics. Evolutionary linear and nonlinear partial differential equations. Mathematical control theory and optimization theory. Long time behavior and theory of attractors. Boundary stabilization, boundary controllability problems for linear and nonlinear parabolic and hyperbolic PDE's, as well as for coupled systems of PDE's equations arising in structural acoustic, thermoelastic systems, fluid structure and flow structure interactions with an interface. Long-time Behavior of Second Order Evolution Equations with Nonlinear Damping (with I. Chueshov ), Memoires of AMS, 2008, vol 195., 183 pp On Well-Posedness and Small Data Global Existence for an Interface Damped Free Boundary Fluid-Structure Model (with M. Ignatova, I. Kukavica, and A. Tuffaha), to appear in Nonlinearity , 2014. Roberto Triggiani , Distinguished University Professor Research Interests: Control Theory, Partial Differential Equations Backward uniqueness of the C_0-semigroup associated with a parabolic-hyperbolic coupled Stokes-Lame PDE system (with G.Avalos), Trans.Amer.Math.Soc. Vol 88(9) (2009), 1357-1396. Boundary control and boundary inverse theory for non-homogeneous second order hyperbolic equations: a common Carleman estimates approach (with S.Liu), HCDTE Lectures Notes. Part I. Nonlinear Hyperbolic PDEs, Dispersive and Transport Equations, AIMS on Applied Mathematics Vol 6, (2013), pp 227-339, American Institute of Mathematical Sciences Research Applied Statistics CLION Combinatorics Computational Analysis Differential Equations Ergodic Theory Functional Analysis Math Education Contact Us How to contact us, and whom to contact about what. Student FAQ Student resources for advising, tutoring, and registering for classes. ALEKS Information on the ALEKS computerized placement test. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .