#http://www.memphis.edu/architecture/resources.php
Resources - Department of Architecture - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Architecture About Programs Community Engagement Faculty + Staff Alumni Home Department of Architecture Resources Resources Department of Architecture Honor Code The Honor Code of the University of Memphis Department of Architecture states: "I will not lie, cheat, or steal nor tolerate those who do." Students must also abide fully by the policies, rules, and regulations set forth in the Department of Architecture Student Policies Manual and the applicable documents of the University of Memphis. Among these are the Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities . Additional information may be obtained from the University of Memphis Office of Student Conduct . BFA Entrance Evaluation Portfolio (details) All students intending to pursue the Bachelor of Fine Arts degree within the Department of Architecture must complete the Entrance Evaluation. This is in addition to the admission requirements of the University of Memphis. The Evaluation consists of an application form, a writing element, and a portfolio of representative work. Submissions are reviewed by faculty and applicants are accepted on the basis of potential in the study of architecture or interior design. Transfer students seeking advanced standing should submit a portfolio representing previously completed architecture or interior design studio work as well as detailed professional/technical course information. The review committee will determine if the work is equivalent to comparable courses at the University of Memphis. Placement in the degree program is dependent upon the review. Even if admitted with advanced standing, the student may be required to remedy previous course deficiencies. For more information, please contact the Department of Architecture. BFA Candidacy Review Portfolio (details) A Candidacy Review Portfolio must be submitted after completion of the BFA core with a grade of C or better in all courses. This occurs at the end of the third semester of study. Representative work from all the architecture and interior design core courses must be included in the Portfolio. Admission to the University of Memphis and completion of the core courses do not guarantee placement in the BFA in Architecture or BFA in Interior Design program. Admission is selective and is based on an evaluation of the Portfolio and course work reflecting professional standards and expectations of the Department of Architecture. After review, the candidate is notified of one of the following: (1) full acceptance into the BFA degree program, (2) one semester acceptance into the program on a probationary basis, (3) recommendation to correct the deficiencies and reapply, (4) recommendation to pursue studies in another major within the College of Communication and Fine Arts, or (5) denial of admission into the Program. Permission to enroll in any 3000-4000 level course within the Department of Architecture is based upon this review. Consultation with a faculty advisor is strongly recommended before or during preparation of the Candidacy Review Portfolio. Department of Architecture Studio Culture Policy (details) The Department of Architecture focuses on fostering a studio environment that provides high quality educational experiences while pursuing new knowledge through research, artistic expression, and interdisciplinary and engaged scholarship. By creating and maintaining an environment that is both positive and respectful, the creative process is much more likely to emerge and succeed. The Studio Culture Policy was developed by the University of Memphis Chapter of the American Institute of Architecture Students in partnership with the faculty of the Department of Architecture. It is reviewed and updated periodically. Scholarships (details) Several scholarships are available to architecture and interior design students through the Department of Architecture. These are: Looney Ricks Kiss Architects Endowed Scholarship Van Walton Memorial Scholarship Dempsie Morrison, Jr. CSI Memphis Memorial Scholarship AIA Scholarship James Weaver Memorial Endowed Scholarship in Interior Design Interior Design Alumni Scholarship In addition, the University of Memphis and the College of Communication and Fine Arts offer academic and other scholarships at various levels in a number of different categories. Awards and Special Recognition The Department of Architecture offers several special awards either through the Department or in partnership with professional and academic organizations. These are: AIA Henry Adams Medal AIA Henry Adams Certificate Alpha Rho Chi Bronze Medal Architectural Research Centers Consortium (ARCC) Jonathan King Student Medal Tau Sigma Delta National Architecture Honor Society Bronze Medal Department of Architecture Graduate Achievement Award Department of Architecture Creative Achievement Award (undergraduate) Department of Architecture Academic Achievement Award Student Organizations The Department of Architecture is home to five registered student organizations. These are the American Institute of Architecture Students (AIAS), the Construction Specifications Institute Student Affiliate (CSI-S), the International Interior Design Association Campus Center (IIDA-CC), the National Organization of Minority Architecture Students (NOMAS), and Tau Sigma Delta (TSD), the national architecture and design honor society. These organizations sponsor various events throughout the academic year including workshops, special lectures, and site visits to architecture and design offices and built and under construction projects. They offer an opportunity to meet other students and practicing professionals through participation in professional, educational, and social activities. Membership in AIAS, CSI-S, IIDA-CC, and NOMAS is open to any student in architecture, interior design, or a related area of study. Students may join at any time. Membership in TSD is based upon academic excellence demonstrated by students who have completed at least five semesters in architecture or interior design Advising All architecture and interior design students must meet with a Department of Architecture advisor prior to being permitted to enroll in courses offered by the Department. In addition to general advising sessions, students may schedule an appointment to meet individually with an advisor. Professor Sherry Bryan, winner of the University of Memphis Distinguished Advisor Award for Faculty, serves as advising coordinator for the Department of Architecture. Professional Registration Becoming a Registered Architect Becoming an Interior Designer Resources Portfolio Requirements, Policies and Procedures, Scholarships, Awards, Students Organizations, Advising, Professional Registration News + Events Gallery Accreditation Architecture, Interior Design, Links, Reports Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .