#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/fir/2015FFIR7911001.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus FIR 4911 & FIR 7911 Fall 2015 3 Credit Hours Instructor: Mr. Leslie Mathis, MS, MBA, MIM, CFA Phone : 678 - 4642 E - mail: lmathis@memphis.edu O ffice: FAB 446 Office Hours: MW 11:00 am - 12:30 pm & TR 10:00 am - 11:15 am Class Times & Locati on: MW 12:40 - 2:05 pm in FCB 369 Course Overview Internship in a business organization to gain on - the - job experience in a real - life environment. The course requires a paper go be approved and supervised by a department faculty member. Credit allowed only after acceptance of the report. Prerequisites: FIR 3410 , 15 hours of upper division core, and 2.75 overall GPA. Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : None Course Objectives : -- Students must advance their learning of finance through on - the - job training and supervision by an experienced professional in the field. -- Students are expected to follow the highest level of ethical standards that are prevalent in the field. -- Students should understand how their internship relates to coursework taken in the Finance major at the University of Memphis. They should also develop ideas while in the internship to anticipate future career prospects. -- S tudents must write an end - of - semester reflective paper on what they accomplished in the internship. In doing so, they provide a written report of the internship experience and get a chance to demonstrate their written communications skills. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your BBA Degree h s/BBADegreeLearningOutcomes.pdf Grading and Evaluation Criteria Final grades will be based on a reflective paper to be submitted near the end of the semester and a work evaluation form provided by the work supervisor. Paper instructions will be sent out to all students registered for the course in early November. There will be no exams in the internship course. The paper should follow the highest st andards for an academic paper with good organization, perfect grammar, and original content expected. In order to get FIR 4911 credit, students must work a minimum of 150 hours in the internship during the semester. The work must be centered on an area in cluded in the finance discipline. There must be a significant amount of learning taking place while the internship takes place. This learning may take place through formal training sessions, mentoring instruction by supervisors, by taking on new projects , etc. Course Policies Attendance: Students should follow all university and FCBE policies on academic integrity. For further information, refer to . Plus or Minus Grades I plan to use plus or minus grades for the overall grades in this course.