#http://www.memphis.edu/professional/programs/professionalism_first.php
Professionalism First! - PDC - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center Welcome Programs Internships Career Coaching Success Stories Events FCBE Community Partners Media Suits For Success Complete Professional Program Dining Etiquette Fogelman Fit Fogelman Serves Professionalism First! Toastmasters Other Programs Accounting Careers of Tomorrow Against All Odds Luncheon Futures in Finance Moving into Management Technology Careers In Business Women in Action Students 4Cs Lecture Series General Information Know Good—Do Good—Thrive Peer Power Success Stories Career Planning Contact Us Home PDC Programs Professionalism First! Professionalism First! Professionalism First! is a free, non-credit professional development program that aims to provide business students with the career development guidance for success in today’s dynamic business world. The program was designed and is delivered by the Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center in conjunction with its strategic partner, First Tennessee Bank. Register Now Professionalism First! promotes life-long career readiness and teaches business students how to improve their professional presence and image through real-world, employer-driven workshop presentations. Amber Long from First Tennessee Bank coordinates HR professionals from FTB to provide engaging and specialized training in valuable career development sessions. This industry-led program comprises three two-hour modules: Emotional Intelligence &amp; Career Strategy Interviewing &amp; Resume Writing Office Etiquette and Networking This program is open to second semester sophomore, junior, and senior business majors who are in good academic standing. The modules are taught at the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics at Thursdays, 4:00-6:00 and Fridays, 1:30-3:30 during the Fall semester. Students who successfully complete all three modules of the program are awarded a certificate from First Tennessee Bank denoting completion. At the conclusion of the program, students who successfully complete the program are invited to a networking reception with First Tennessee executives. Congratulations to our Fall 2015 Program Graduates! Professionalism First! Videos The University of Memphis Minute February 14, 2014 featuring Professionalism First! The University of Memphis Minute September 27, 2013 featuring Professionalism First! Registration for Fall 2015 will begin in mid-August. Dates for the Fall semester are: September 17, September 24, October 1: 4:00 - 6:00 pm September 18, September 25, October 2: 1:30 - 3:30 pm To receive credit toward The Complete Professional Program, students must attend all three sessions. For more information, contact the Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center, or email us . Community Partners Media Suits For Success Complete Professional Program Dining Etiquette Fogelman Fit Fogelman Serves Professionalism First! Toastmasters Other Programs Accounting Careers of Tomorrow Against All Odds Luncheon Futures in Finance Moving into Management Technology Careers In Business Women in Action Students 4Cs Lecture Series General Information Know Good—Do Good—Thrive Peer Power Success Stories Career Planning Contact Us Community Partners For employers looking to hire professional and polished interns, information on Professional Development, and Suits for Success Student Engagement For students looking to get invovled in Peer Power, The Complete Professional Program, and Student Organizations Student Success Stories Learn more about your peers and their successes with our program! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/17/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .