#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/pdfs/ummeet-student-guide.pdf
UMmeet Online Classroom Higher and Adult Education UMmeet URLs - Click (or copy and paste into your Internet browser) on the URL for your instructor to enter the classroom. Name URL for Classroom Brooks Calhoun Medley Misawa Mullins Nelson Mumiukha Rayfield Sc hneider Selbe Wilson HIAD Multipurpose Room Sign in as a guest with your first and last name a few minutes prior to the assigned date and class time. Log In Screen Log In As Guest & Enter Your First & Last Name Screen Overview #1. This is your meeting menu. The Audio Setup Wizard will make sure your audio is working properly. Once completed you only have to repeat this step if you use a different computer. #2. This is the microphone icon. It should show green to show that your microphone is active and on. Click the downward pointing arrow for microphone settings. #3. Audience Drop down menu to display feedback with icons #4. Allows the presenter to display screen, document, or whiteboard to entire meeting. meeting participants to see. #6. Lists meeting participants. User Icons will appear next to participants names. #7. Allows all meeting participants to hold a discussion or ask questions. this box appears. 1 4 5 6 7 2 3 UMmeet Special Instructions All participants will need to complete the computer test prior to logging in to UMmeet. It is highly recommended to complete this test days in advance in the event that there is a problem. Computer Test : Test your computer for compatibility with Adobe Connect . In order to participate in the session, all participants will need a webcam and a microphone headset. The built - in microphones have feedback issues. Headset microphones are inexpensive (under $20) and can be found in most electronic retailers. There are two options for sharing documents in class. Option 1 in #4 and select the document to upload from your computer or jump drive. I would recommend uploading any documents you plan to use during class ahead of time in the event it takes a few minutes. Option 2 NOTE: if you plan on using web videos and clips, I would recommend using option 2. My contact information: Courtney Orians Browning 311 6 78 - 5229 (Office) 268 - 1289 (Cell) cckelly@memphi s.edu