#https://offcampushousing.memphis.edu/auth/help-cookies
University of Memphis | Off Campus Housing Search Skip to main University of Memphis Off-Campus Housing Menu Home Housing Roommates Message Boards Resources Help Sign Up Log In How to Enable Third-Party Cookies To sign in or register, your browser must be configured to accept third-party cookies. Please follow the browser-specific instructions below to enable third-party cookies. Table of Contents Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox 3.x (PC) 2.x (PC) 1.x (PC) Mac Safari Google Chrome Microsoft Internet Explorer To enable cookies in IE 7: Click Start &gt; Control Panel . (Note: with Windows XP Classic View, click the Windows Start button &gt; Settings &gt; Control Panel ). Double-click the Internet Options icon. Click the Privacy tab. Click the Advanced button. Select the option 'Override automatic cookie handling' under the Cookies section in the Advanced Privacy Settings window. Select the 'Accept' or 'Prompt' option under 'First-party Cookies.' Select the 'Accept' or 'Prompt' option under 'Third-party Cookies.' (Note: if you select the 'Prompt' option, you'll be prompted to click OK every time a website attempts to send you a cookie.) In the Internet Options window, click OK to exit. Mozilla Firefox To enable cookies in Mozilla Firefox 3.x (PC): Click Tools &gt; Options . Click Privacy in the top panel. Select the checkbox labeled 'Accept cookies from sites.' Select the checkbox labeled 'Accept third-party cookies.' Click OK . To enable cookies in Mozilla Firefox 2.x (PC): Click Tools &gt; Options . Click Privacy in the top panel. Select the checkbox labeled 'Accept cookies from sites.' Click OK . To enable cookies in Mozilla Firefox 1.x (PC): Click Tools &gt; Options . Click Privacy in the top panel. Click the Cookies tab. Select the checkbox labeled 'Allow sites to set cookies.' Click OK . To enable cookies in Mozilla Firefox (Mac): Go to the Firefox drop-down menu. Select Preferences . Click Privacy . Under Cookies, select the option 'Accept cookies from sites.' Safari To enable cookies in Safari: Go to the Safari drop-down menu. Select Preferences. Click Privacy in the top panel. Under 'Block cookies' select the option 'Never.' For increased security, once you have finished using the site, please change the Privacy setting back to Always. Google Chrome To enable cookies in Google Chrome (Mac): Open Chrome preferences click on Settings, then Show Advanced Settings. Under Privacy, click on Content Settings. Make sure "Block third-party cookies and site data" is not checked If your browser is not listed above, please refer to your browser's help pages. You may need to restart your browser to proceed. Privacy Policy Disclaimer Contact Us Copyright &copy; 2015 Off Campus Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.