#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/cas/engl.php
English - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions English English (ENGL) ENGLISH Joshua Phillips, Ph.D., Chair Room 467, Patterson Hall All candidates for graduation at the University of Memphis are required to complete ENGL 1010 and 1020 or their equivalents, with a minimum grade of “C.” Before enrolling in ENGL 1010, a student must have either: (1) an ACT English subscore of 18 or above, or (2) an SAT verbal score of 450 or above, or (3) a satisfactory score on a placement exam administered by the University of Memphis Testing Center. Those who do not meet the requirements above, must successfully complete DSPW 0800 with a minimum grade of "C" before proceeding to ENGL 1010. ENGL 1010 and 1020 must be taken in sequence; no credit will be allowed for ENGL 1020 until 1010 has been completed successfully. After completing ENGL 1010 and 1020 with a minimum grade of “C,” all students must take ENGL 2201 or 2202. ENGL 1010, 1020, 2201 or 2202 or equivalents with a minimum grade of "C" are prerequisites for all upper-division courses in the Department of English. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: ENGL 3100-19. Special Topics in Literature. (1-3). Topics are varied and noted in online class listings. ENGL 4101-10. Special Topics in English. (3). Topics are varied and noted in online class listings. ENGL 4540-4550. Special Topics in Language and Linguistics. (3). Topics are varied and noted in online class listings. ENGL 4606-15. Topics in Advanced Technical Writing. (3). Theories, contexts, and practices of writing in the world of technology; topics vary; extensive practice in writing, editing, and preparing technical publications. ENGL 1010 - English Composition (3) Practice in expository writing with emphasis on content, organization, and style (levels of usage and sentence structure) for different purposes and audiences. PREREQUISITE: DSPW 0800 with a minimum grade of "C," or ACT English sub-score of 18 or above, or SAT verbal score of 450 or above, or satisfactory completion of placement essay. [G] ENGL 1020 - English Comp/Analysis (3) Practice in expository writing that synthesizes ideas from various readings. Includes library work and production of documented papers. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 1010 with a minimum grade of "C," or equivalent. [G] ENGL 2201 - Literary Heritage (3) Major texts of literary heritage; modes of literary expression and cultural context; emphasis on works as products of their historical contexts and as processes shaping human consciousness; composition and critical thinking beyond levels expected of freshmen. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 1010 and 1020, with a minimum grade of "C," or their equivalent. [G] ENGL 2202 - Lit Heritage: African-American (3) Consideration of major texts of literary heritage with emphasis on African-American culture; modes of literary expression and cultural context; emphasis on work as products of historical contexts and as processes shaping human consciousness; composition and critical thinking beyond levels expected of freshmen. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 1010 and 1020, with a minimum grade of "C," or their equivalent. [G] ENGL 3210 - British Lit to 1750 (3) Survey of major authors, themes, and movements from the medieval period through the 18th century. ENGL 3212 - 16th Century British Lit (3) Study of the prose, poetry, and drama of 16th century England. ENGL 3213 - 17th Century British Lit (3) Study of the prose, poetry, and drama of 17th century England. ENGL 3214 - 18th Century British Lit (3) Study of the drama, fiction, poetry, and essays from Restoration and 18th century Britain. ENGL 3215 - Shakespeare I (3) Background in the study of Shakespeare and discussion of selected works. ENGL 3220 - British Lit since 1750 (3) Survey of major authors, themes, and movements from the Romantic period through the present. ENGL 3221 - British Lit Romantic Age (3) Survey of major authors, themes, and movements in British Romantic literature. ENGL 3222 - British Lit/Victorian Era (3) Study of important writers of poetry, prose, fiction, and drama in the context of the historical and social circumstances of the Victorian period. ENGL 3224 - 20th Century British Lit (3) Study of important works of poetry, prose, fiction, and drama written between 1890 and 2000. ENGL 3325 - Af/Am Lit thru Harlem Ren (3) Examination of works by black authors starting with the Colonial Enlightenment, continuing with slave narratives, and ending with the rise of the black novel. ENGL 3326 - Af/Am Lit since Harlem Ren (3) Examination of African American literary tradition from the Harlem Renaissance to the present; Chicago writers, integrationist aesthetics of the 1950's; black aesthetics of the 1960's. ENGL 3327 - American Literature to 1865 (3) Survey of major authors, themes, and movements in American literature from the colonial period through 1865. ENGL 3328 - American Literature since 1865 (3) Study of American literature and literary movements from 1865 to the present. ENGL 3329 - Major Authors in American Lit (3) Study of several major American authors that represent a literary movement, genre, or shared/contrasting thematic focus within their works. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit with change in course content. ENGL 3330 - Place/Time in American Lit (3) Study of American literary works focused on particular geographic spaces and historical periods. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit with a change in course content. ENGL 3401 - Children's Literature (3) Study of children's literature through reading, discussion, and writing about history, characteristics, and authors of its major genres. ENGL 3402 - Science Fiction and Fantasy (3) Study of the history, conventions, and themes of science fiction and fantasy literature. ENGL 3403 - Mythic Backgrounds in Lit (3) Study of Middle Eastern and Greek mythology and their development from Homer, Plato, and Ovid and continuing through Milton; extensive practice in critical thinking, written exposition, methods for source study, and mythic, literary, and cultural analysis. ENGL 3404 - Studies/Popular Texts (3-6) Selected genres of popular texts, such as science fiction, fantasy, crime, mystery, or biography. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit with a change in course content. ENGL 3500 - Practical English Grammar (3) Extended study of the fundamentals of English grammar, sentence structure, usage, diction, punctuation, and spelling. Does not apply to the English major or minor. ENGL 3501 - Modern English Grammar (3) Introduction to current grammatical theory; description of sounds, word structures, syntax, and semantics of English within theoretical frameworks. ENGL 3511 - Intro to Linguistics (3) Introduction to the nature and functions of human language, to its structural principles, and to its place in culture and society; emphasis on language diversity and change through history and contact; discussion of language and thought, origin of language, and other topics. ENGL 3521 - The American Language (3) Changing nature and variety of American English, especially in vocabulary and usage, its range, formal, informal, written, colloquial, and standard and dialectal variations; shifting standards of usage especially reflected in dictionaries; appropriateness dependent upon context; and language as both reflector and shaper of thought. ENGL 3601 - Technical and Profess Writing (3) Introduction to rhetoric and style of documents written by scientists, engineers, technical writers, and other professionals; extensive practice in writing reports, proposals, manuals, and correspondence. ENGL 3602 - Professional Editing (3) Workshop in techniques of editing effectively in academic, industry, government, literary, and research settings; developing practical genre familiarity for printed and online formats within those areas. ENGL 3603 - Engineering Communications (3) Form and contexts of written and oral communications in engineering professions; extensive practice in oral reporting, written reports, manuals, and proposals. Does not apply to the English major or minor. ENGL 3604 - Persuasive Writing (3) Study and practice of writing essays and reports with emphasis on persuasion; introduction to empirical and library research, application of rhetorical principles, and nature of evidence, including numerical; academic and professional writing, editing, and revision. ENGL 3606 - Poetry Writing (3) Exploration of the creative process within the forms and traditions of poetry. Emphasis on student's own work. ENGL 3607 - Fiction Writing (3) Exploration of the creative process within the forms and traditions of fiction. Emphasis on the student's own work. ENGL 3608 - Creative Nonfiction Writing (3) Introduction to various forms and traditions of creative nonfiction, including memoir, literary journalism, and personal essay. ENGL 3701 - Lit Criticism/Theory (3) Study of contemporary approached to literary criticism, its premises, and applications. ENGL 4001 - Senior Honor Seminar I (3) Intensive study of a problem in language or literature. Enrollment limited to English honors students. ENGL 4230 - Chaucer/Medieval World (3) Study of works by Chaucer and his contemporaries in their cultural context. ENGL 4234 - Milton (3) Study of the poetic works of John Milton. ENGL 4237 - Shakespeare II (3) Analysis of selected plays and study of various approaches to Shakespeare. ENGL 4243 - Studies in British Literature (3) Selected literature from a variety of periods in British literary history. ENGL 4244 - Cultural Ideas in British Lit (3) Detailed study of selected cultural ideas as they reflect on and are reflected by British literature. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hour credit with change in course content. ENGL 4323 - Southern Literature (3) Study of selected texts from and about the U.S. South. ENGL 4324 - Early American Literature (3) An advanced seminar on authors, movements, and genres from early American literature. ENGL 4325 - 19th Century Amer Literature (3) Detailed study of a body of texts, literary movements, themes, and authors in 19th century American literature. ENGL 4326 - 20th Century Amer Literature (3) Detailed study of a body of texts, literary movements, themes and authors in 20th century American literature. ENGL 4346 - Cultural Ideas in Amer Lit (3) Detailed study of selected cultural ideas as they reflect on and are reflected by American literature. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit with change in course content. ENGL 4372 - Af/Am Author/Harlem Ren (3) In-depth study of two or three authors prior to 1930, focusing on relationships among them and comparing their aesthetics. May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours credit with change in course content. ENGL 4373 - Af/Am Author since Harlem Ren (3) In-depth study of two or three authors since 1930, focusing on relationships among them and comparing their aesthetics. May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours credit with change in course content. ENGL 4374 - African-Amer Lit Movements (3) A focused study of African-American literary movements, such as the Harlem Renaissance, Black Arts Movement, or the Black Feminist Movement. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit with change in course content. ENGL 4430 - Graphic Novel (3) Close study of the nature and cultural significance of the graphic novel genre, characterized by interplay between verbal and visual. ENGL 4431 - Contemporary Literature (3) Close study of selected literature from 1960 to present. ENGL 4442 - Studies in World Literature (3) Study of literary texts from a variety of national traditions in languages other than English. Readings will be in English. ENGL 4451 - Studies/Women and Literature (3) Literature and criticism by and about women. ENGL 4452 - Modern Drama (3) American, British, and European drama from Ibsen to 1950. ENGL 4453 - Contemporary Drama (3) American, British, and European drama from 1950 to the present. ENGL 4454 - Literary Movements (3) A focused study of specific literary movements, such as modernism, surrealism, or magical realism. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit with change in course content. ENGL 4455 - Literature and the Arts (3) An examination of the interplay between literature and other art forms. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit with change in course content. ENGL 4456 - Reading in Literary Nonfiction (3) A close study and critical analysis of the nonfictional literary genres, including but not limited to autobiography, biography, essay, and travel literature. ENGL 4457 - Poetry and Poetics (3) A study of poetry concentrating on critical analysis of poetic structure and theories. ENGL 4461 - Bible as Literature (3) Survey of both Old and New Testaments. ENGL 4501 - History of English Lang (3) Development of English from a minor Germanic dialect to a major international language. ENGL 4511 - Language and Literature (3) How linguistics can illuminate the analysis of literature, the nature of literary language, and the linguistic options open to a writer. ENGL 4521 - Language and Society (3) Place of language in society and how it creates and reflects social relationships; geographical and social dialects, male/female differences, and language of various subgroups within our culture; intensive examination of implications of language differences. ENGL 4522 - Gender and Language (3) Study of gender as a variable as it intersects with language use in a variety of contexts, including professional, legal, medical, and academic settings. ENGL 4530 - Practicum in ESL (3-6) Experience in observing and teaching, peer teaching, and work with an ESL specialist. Repeatable for a maximum of 6 hours. (S/U). ENGL 4531 - Methods and Techniques ESL (3) Methods and techniques of teaching English as a Second Language in various settings. ENGL 4532 - Skills/App/Assess ESL (3) Approaches to evaluation and means of assessment of language skills, with special emphasis on English as a Second Language. ENGL 4533 - Issues/Tech/Eng Foreign Lang (3) Skills, background, and approaches needed for teaching English outside the United States. ENGL 4599 - Forms of Creative Nonfiction (3) Study of various types of creative nonfiction and the techniques appropriate to each. ENGL 4600 - Creative Nonfiction Workshop (3) Nature of nonfiction, critical approaches to the genre; practical experience in writing and revising text. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit with permission of instructor. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 3607 or ENGL 3608. ENGL 4601 - Poetry Workshop (3) The nature of poetry, critical approaches to the poem, and practical experience in writing and revising text. May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours credit with permission of instructor. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 3606. ENGL 4602 - Adv Composition (3) Principles involved in writing clear expository prose; emphasis on application of these principles; analysis of readings and of student's writing. ENGL 4603 - Fiction Workshop (3) Nature of short story and longer forms of fiction, critical approaches to fiction, and practical experience in writing and revising text. May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours credit with permission of instructor. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 3607 or ENGL 3608. ENGL 4604 - Forms of Poetry (3) A study of metrics, forms, and types of poetry in English with attention to the principal traditions and critical ideas associated with the writing of verse in English. ENGL 4605 - Forms of Fiction (3) A study of how fiction works through analyzing the short story, the novella, and the novel with attention to technical developments. ENGL 4610 - Creative Writing/Translation (3) Study and practice in translating poetry, fiction, or non-fiction; use of creative writing as tool in teaching of foreign language. May be repeated for credit with change of topic or genre. PREREQUISITE: 3000-level creative writing workshop in the same genre (fiction, poetry, or creative non-fiction), and permission of instructor. ENGL 4611 - English Studies/Internl Locale (3-6) Blended course of on-campus and national or international study and research in specific areas related to topic culminating in an integrative experience through individual and/or group projects. Varied topics may require studies of relationships of culture to text and language, history, analysis, documentation, and/or production of text and language. Course may be repeated, but only 6 credit hours may be earned towards a degree. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. ENGL 4616 - The Publishing Process (3) Steps in the publishing process from writing a manuscript to printing it, including the publishing of various genres throughout the world. ENGL 4618 - Document Design (3) Theories of visual and written communication, focusing on the interrelationship between visual and verbal elements; practice in effective design using layout and graphics software; working on client projects in a collaborative setting. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 3601 or permission of instructor. ENGL 4619 - Web Design/Online Writing (3) Principles and techniques of creating online user help for software and usable web sites; emphasis on needs of technical writers in professional development environment; task analysis, information architecture, content management, single sourcing, visual rhetoric, navigation, usability testing; technology tools intensive. Students who have received credit for ENGL 4617 cannot take this course for credit. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 3601 or permission of instructor. ENGL 4630 - Intern Profsnl Writing (3) Experience in technical, scientific, legal, government, or business writing with a professional in the field. Dependent upon availability. PREREQUISITE: 3601 and 3602 and permission of instructor. ENGL 4711 - Author/Text/Reader/World (3) Methodological reflection upon theory and practice of reading linguistic, literary, and rhetorical models. PREREQUISITE: 15 hours of English. ENGL 4900 - Independent Study (1-3) A selected topic or problem in the field of literature, language, or writing. Topic must not duplicate existing University courses. May be repeated for maximum of 3 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. ENGL 4996 - Honors Thesis (3) CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .