#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mis/2015FMIS4310M50.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus FCBE MIS 4310 M50 Global Information Technology Fall Semester, 2015 3.0 Credit Hours Meeting Online, via Desire2Learn web hosting Professor : Tom Stafford Phone : 901.678.4628 E - mail: tstaffor@memphis.edu Office: FCBE 324 Office Hours: 12:00 2:00 pm Tuesday/Thursday Office Hours by appointment : If you should need to meet at other times, I am always happy to make an appointment to meet whenever convenient. Course Overview : Global Information Technology is an undergraduate Information Systems course designed to expose students to the issues of doing global business in a technological world. There will be a general focus on the use of technology to facilitate the practice of global business in the enterprise. A key outcome of the course should be an understanding of the uses of systems and tech nology to gain and sustain competitive advantage for global companies. Assessment: This course replies to the AACSB assessment objective of Global Understanding , for which the assessment objective is: Goal 4: Student will be knowledgeable about the global environment of business. The rubrics for this include 1) demonstrating an awareness of the economic, social and cultural environments within which international businesses operate, and 2) demonstrating an awareness of the political and technological environments within which international businesses operate . E xemplary performance for rubrics 1 & 2 is indicated by students readily identifying environmental issues in an internationa l business situation, u nderstanding relevant actions, and predicting responses. A third rubric is demonstrating an awareness of the legal, institutional and financial types of international transactions that are components of global business operations, for which exemplary perf ormance is demonstrated by students identifying types of p. 2 transactions involved in a stated international business context and demonstrating an ability to solve problems based on this knowledge Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: There are no course pre - requisite s to enrolling in this course , and so we welcome students from most any academic major. After all, the use of technology to facilitate the activities of the firm in global contexts is something that would span most business practices. However, in order to keep up with discussion, a basic knowledge of Wide Area Networking, in the form of Internet, proprietary leased - line, and common carrier wireline and wireless connectivity as well as Local Area Networking would be useful. This class is more about the manag ing of technology than the development of technology, so non - technologists should catch on quickly. Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : I have learned over the 14 years that I have taug ht this course that there is no perfect text th at adequately compiles the material I want you to absorb in a single volume. I could, perhaps, require you to buy three different books and use parts of each, and this would cover the range of material necessary. I could also compile the portions useful from each of the three books into a course pack. What I have learned through time and experience (and, also, through the process of splitting this course between in class an d online sections) is that course packs are profitably expensive even more so than requiring you to buy the three books from which I excerpt. To that end, I have concluded that the best possible route forward for source support materials is to place several copies of the relevant chapters I will be lecturing from in the University Library on course re serve, and this is the choice I have made for this section. Your materials are all on library reserve. You are not required to access those; I place them there for the interested student who wishes to read up and has ready access to the campus library. Recommended Texts (and Related Materials) : The texts from which I lecture , and from which selected chapters are placed in the library on two - hour reserve in support of the course are as follows, in the event you wish to obtain personal copies for your grow ing business library , at your option : Palvia, P., Palvia, S., & Harris, A. (2007). Managing Global information Technology: Strategies and Challenges , Marietta, GA: Ivy league Publishing. Palvia, P., Palvia, S., & Roche, E. (2002). Global Information Technology and Electronic Commerce: Issues for the New Millennium. Marietta, GA: Ivy League Publishing, Ltd. Palvia, P., Palvia, S, & Roche, E. (1996). Global Information Technology and Systems Management: Key Issues and Trends. Ma rietta GA: Ivy League Publishing. Palvia, P., Palvia, S, & Roche, E. (1994). Global Information Technology and Systems Management, Nashua, NH: Ivy League Publishing. Popkin, J., & Iyengar, P. (2007). IT and the East: How China and India are Altering the Future of Technology in Innovation. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Business School Press. p. 3 Tan, F. (2002). Global Perspectives of Information Technology, Hershey, PA: IRM Press. Png, Ivan PL, Bernard CY Tan, and Khai - Ling Wee. "Dimensions of national culture and corporate adoption of IT infrastructure." Engineering Management, IEEE Transactions on 48.1 (2001): 36 - 45. Porter, M.E. (1986). Competition in Global Industries. Boston: Harvard Business School Press. Porter, M.E. (1990). The Competitive Adva ntage of Nations, New York: Free Press. It is recommended that students have access to news media and publications about the nature of business in the global stage. We will engage in discussions of global business routinely, what I characterize in your - and - tell of global technology issues of the day that you will develop from your regular reading of the global business news sources . Typical sources can include Yahoo, CNN, BBC, CNBC, New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Economist, Business Week, The Times of India, Xinhua, Moscow Times and Al Jazeera. Environmental Scan Project Read the news daily , and be prepared to contribute your views on the events of the day that might influence the course of global business and management. This is one of the key skills of the course, as it responds to two of the three key assessment rubrics for AACSB accredit ation. I will grade you on this. And, by news I mean news of business and geopolitics, not what happened in Hollywood yesterday, or current events, unless they have some bearing on the course of business (and sometimes they do). I am wanting succinct and i nformative reports on what the current state of business is, and about key events that could impact the course of business, which you will upload to the decision areas of the course page. You will find links for w eek 1, 2, 3 and 4 scan reports Course Objec tives : Global Information Technology is an undergraduate Information Systems course designed to expose students to the issues of doing global business in a technological world. There will be a general focus on the use of technology to facilitate the practice of global business in the enterprise. A key outcome of the course should be an understanding of the uses of systems and technology to gain and sustain competitive advantage for global companies. I will constantly ask Learning goals of this course include: Comprehension of the competitive nature of global business Comprehension of the applications of technology in global enterprise Comprehension of the cultural and political aspects of global enterprise Awar eness of the current trends and events in global management and technology p. 4 Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree Our mission is to offer business education for a diverse student population by teaching a rigorous and relevant business curriculum, supported and strengthened by research and community outreach. Our degree programs serve the workforce needs of the Mid - South region a nd beyond. Specifically, in order of emphasis, We prepare students for leadership roles in a technology - driven and globally competitive marketplace. technology - driven and globa lly competitive marketplace and for future graduate studies. This course is designed in accordance with th e overall learning objectives of the BBA program : Course Methodology This course uses a lecture and discussion pedagogy. I use PowerPoint presentations prepared from the assigned reading material to guide my exposition of technological topics in global contexts. Because I am talkative, well - schooled and highly informed on the topics of information technology in a global context, I will talk quite a bit. This does not mean you only sit and listen. I expect interaction, contribution, thoughtful discussion. Thinking like a CIO means sharing your knowledge as a thought leader. Learn to cultivate this perspective as a course success strategy. Pr of Students : Log on regularly to take part and participate in online discussions , do your own work, and post your environmental scan activities regularly , rather than all at the end of the semester. D That about covers what I need from you. Student's Expectations of the Professor : My job is to make the process of learning how technology works in a global context fun and enriching. I will endeavor to answer emails within two (2) business days, and provide feedba ck on all work submi tted within 7 - 10 calendar days. p. 5 Grading and Evaluation Criteria Over the semester, you will have a variety of opportunities to earn points towards your final (overall) letter grade in this course. This section of the syllabus describes the assessed work you will be doing and how overall (final) letter grades will be computed. Summary of Graded Activities Points earned on the assessed activities will be distributed as follows: Deliverable Total Percentage D iscussion, including online Environmental Scan reports to eLearn Discussion Group pages 2 0 Term Paper 30 Midterm Exam 25 Final Exam 25 Total 1 00 % Grading scale for the course: A = 90 - 100% B = 80 - 89% C = 70 - 79% D = 60 - 69% F = below 60% No +/ - grades are given in this course All submitted materials are screened for academic integrity. Do your own work! p. 6 Course Topics : The course orients around two general sections: 1) Technology Diffusion in Emerging and Developing Economies. a. Global Commerce and Competiti on b. The Singapore Model c. Emerging Markets d. Technology Diffusion by Government Mandate 2) Managing the Global Firm: Strategy, Managerial Theory and Outsourcing. a. Managing the Global Firm b. Outsourcing c. India/China Final Exam Schedule The final exam for this class will be scheduled according to the website . Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all o fficial course correspondence at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not re gularly checking your email, responsibility. Attendance: Since this is an online course, your attendance is your own pace and responsibility. However, I note that the students who are more active w ith the elearn resource and whom post regularly tend Adding / Dropping : If you have questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to this page on the . Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. Note that using a Solutions Manual is considered c heating. Should your professor have evidence that using a Solutions Manual has occurred, he/she may take steps Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questions p. 7 about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Participation: To be successful in this course as a student, you must stay active and involved throughout the entire semester , and that takes place in the online discussion spaces of the elearn site . Students are expected participate in all interactive aspects of the course . You should also regularly communicate with the instructor as part of your overall learning experience, check into the course frequently for announcements (usually on the course home page), and actively participate in online class discussions. All participants in the course should be considerate of the other course participants and treat them (as well as their opinions) with respect. The class will operate under the assumption that any and all feedback offered is positive in nature and that the intentions of the person(s) providing feedback are strictly honorable. Insensitivity in this area will not be tolerated. Late Assignments: Assignments and projects may be submitted anytime up to and including the date due. Please due dates for formally assessed work. If your work is not submitted on time, the instructor reserves the opti on to deduct up to 20% of the grade value for tardiness depending upon the circumstances and appropriate communication between the student and the instructor. Extra Credit: There is no extra credit offered in this course. Your final grade will be computed based on your work on the formal/assessed activities previously described in this syllabus. Reporting Illness or Absence: Due dates and deadlines have been established for each graded assignment. In this course, deadlines are taken very seriously. Please do not wait until the last day to submit assignments or to take quizzes and exams. If an emergency should arise, it is the contact the instructor prior to the deadline to discuss the matter. A deadline extension will be considered only if all of the following conditions are met: (1) Extreme emergency and (2) Instructor contacted prior to the due date . Inclement Weather: In the event that inclement weather requires the cancellation of classes at T he University of Memphis, local radio and television media will be immedi ately notified. Additionally, T he University of Memphis has established an I nclement Weather Hotline at 678 - 0888 as well as TigerText , an emergency alert text messaging service to students, faculty and staff. This optional service is used in the event of an on - campus eme rgency, an unscheduled university closing, or a delay or cancellation of classes due to, for instance, inclement weather . Click Here for information on TigerText. I do not expect this to impact o ur online course, but one never knows p. 8 Syllabus Changes: The instructor reserves the right to make changes as necessary to this syllabus. If changes are necessitated during the term of the course, the instructor will immediately notify students of such changes both by individual email communication and posting both notification and nature of change(s) on the course bulletin board. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services pa ge for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance