#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/ccfa/thea.php
Theatre and Dance - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Theatre and Dance Theatre and Dance HOLLY C. LAU, MFA Chair Room 144, Theatre Building 901.678.2523 JANICE BENNING LACEK, MFA Coordinator of Graduate Studies 901.678.3188 E-Mail: kshupe@memphis.edu Web: I. The Department of Theatre and Dance offers graduate programs leading to the Master of Fine Arts degree in Theatre. Within the MFA degree in Theatre, training is available in directing and in design and technical production. The University of Memphis is an accredited institutional member of the National Association of Schools of Theatre. Program objectives are: (1) understanding of the theatre arts and crafts at a sufficient level to communicate with other artists in collaborative process and to make critical judgments; (2) knowledge of objectives and methods of play analysis, awareness of aesthetics, psychology, and socio-historical context, and ability to integrate advanced play analysis skills into the development of an artistic concept for a stage production; (3) comprehensive knowledge of body of plays in various periods of dramatic literature and specific scripts; (4) cultivation of interpersonal skills to communicate productively with artistic collaborators; (5) development of interpersonal skills to effectively handle budgets, contract negotiations, professional ethics, legal responsibilities, and public relations; and (6) awareness of standards and expectations of theatre practice according to professional models. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MFA Degree Program A. Program Admission Admission to the program is competitive and is not automatic upon meeting minimum admission requirements. Students are selected from the pool of qualified applicants; the number of students admitted yearly depends on the availability of program resources required to maintain a high level of student/faculty contact and professional training. Procedures include: Admission to the Graduate School. Note that the Department of Theatre and Dance requires a grade point average of at least 2.5 from an accredited undergraduate institution. As well, the department will require evidence of suitable academic preparation, typically demonstrated by performance in course work in the undergraduate major and/or a writing sample. Submission of a separate departmental application identifying prior theatre education and experience and professional goals. Departmental applications are available from the Department of Theatre and Dance. An interview with appropriate program faculty either at the university or at a regional or national conference. B. Degree Requirements Successful completion of a minimum of 60 semester hours of graduate credit approved by the student’s Graduate Advisory Committee. A minimum of 70% (42 hours) of the total required hours must be 7000 level courses. A minimum GPA of 3.0 is required for graduation. All students in the program must take the following core courses: THEA 7564, Studio in Theatrical Collaboration and Style; THEA 7581, Seminar in Dramatic Theory and Criticism; THEA 7582, Analysis of Dramatic Literature; THEA 7600, Internship; and THEA 7995, Production Practicum. All students with a specialization in Directing must take the following courses: THEA 7521 Stage Direction; THEA 7526 Directing Studio (1st Year Project); THEA 7526 Directing Studio (2nd Year Project); THEA 7553 Styles of Directing; THEA 7554 Seminar in Directing; THEA 6554 Visual History I; THEA 6558 Visual History II; and one of the History / Literature courses: THEA 6549 Theatre History; THEA 6548 Musical Theatre History; THEA 6551 Dramatic Literature I (Classical); or THEA 6552 Dramatic Literature II (Modern). All students with a specialization in Design and Technical Production must take an additional thirty-nine hours of courses determined in consultation with their advisor. Satisfactory completion of a comprehensive examination. C. Graduate Advisory Committee Each student will have a Graduate Advisory Committee. The functions of the committee shall be: To approve the three-year Plan of Study (which may include remedial work). T o monitor academic and artistic progress. To monitor quality and quantity of participation in the theatre production program. To approve and evaluate production projects, the Production Practicum Project, the internship, and the comprehensive examination. D. Annual Progress Review Progress in the MFA program involves more than the successful completion of academic course work. Artistic progress and engagement in the theatre production program of the department are also required. MFA Portfolio Review: Each year all design students will meet with the design faculty and all directing students with the directing faculty for Portfolio Review. At that time, the student’s competencies, artistic progress, and professional presentational skills will be evaluated. Graduate Review: Following each semester's Graduate Advisory Committee meeting with the student, the full faculty will meet to review the status and progress of each student. Possible outcomes of the evaluation process include: continuance in the program without condition; continuance in the program with conditions; or non-continuance in the program. Note: A more detailed discussion of program requirements may be found in the Department of Theatre and Dance Graduate Handbook available from the department office. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .