#http://www.memphis.edu/cristal/stem_opportunities/teachers.php
Teachers - CRISTAL - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Center for Research and Innovation in STEM Teaching and Learning (CRISTAL) About Membership STEM Opportunities Active Grants STEM Hub STEM Opportunities UofM Students UofM Faculty K-12 Students Teachers Useful Links Home CRISTAL STEM Opportunities Teachers Wonderful Resources for K-12 Teachers! For a wide variety of additional resources, please see the Useful Links Tab or click here to be taken to the tab immediately. ARE You a UofM Alum? Check out Tiger Link! The TigerLink system provides current students and graduates of the University with access to job and internship listings, career fair information, on-campus interview schedules, resume and cover letter examples, online practice interviews, and the ability to schedule career advising appointments through an online calendar system. Students will be able to access the system with the same user name and password used for other University resources such as MyMemphis. Graduates of the University may create a TigerLink account by contacting the Career Services office at careerservices@memphis.edu To access these services, use the following links: U of M Student and Alumni Login Page: Employer Login Page: Rhode Island School of Design (RISD) STEAM Lessons Need some great lessons with STEAM in mind for K-12? Check out the link below: St. Jude Cancer Education for Children Program The St. Jude Cancer Education for Children Program ("Cure4Kids for Kids") aims to become the leading source of cancer education for students in Kindergarten thru 12th grades. This multilingual program helps school children, their parents and teachers understand the basic science and treatment of cancer. Through the use of age-appropriate content, the program focuses on three main objectives: 1) educating students, parents, teachers and communities about cancer and dispelling common misconceptions; 2) promoting healthy lifestyle choices in children that can help them reduce the risk of developing cancer as adults; and 3) increasing interest in science and scientific careers. Three children's books, each written at a grade 3-5 reading level, are the foundation of the Cure4Kids for Kids curriculum. With a combination of cartoon-like graphics and real photographs, What Are Cells? , What Is Cancer? , and What Is Healthy Living? explain that cells, the basic units of life, grow and divide in a controlled way to replace old cells and help things grow. Cancer then can be understood as a disease of unhealthy cells that grow out of control. Healthy living and cancer prevention are discussed as healthy behaviors than can help prevent and protect cells from damage that would cause them to become unhealthy cancer cells. An interactive website extends the experience beyond the classroom so students can continue to learn about cancer and healthy living wherever they go ( Cure4Kids.org/kids ). For teacher resources for this program visit St. Jude Cure4Kids for Teachers ( cure4kids.org/teachers ). The TI Robotics Scholarship Do you help mentor or coach a Robotics Team? Do you know a high school student involved with robotics competitions - BEST, FIRST, and/or VEX? Now announcing: The TI Robotics Scholarship, in partnership with the REC Foundation! For more information please visit ti.com/robotics and roboticseducation.org/for-participants/scholarships/ The Texas Instruments scholarship is offering two (2) $5,000 non-renewable scholaships to two (2) high school seniors intent on pursing a degree related to science, technology, engineering or mathematics in college. The second link provided will list 111 additional opportunities available worth a combined total of 2,118,000.00! Dates vary for submission so be watching the websites for updates! Teacher Opportunities: Scholarships What: Aerospace Education Basic and Advanced: Basic-ICL 4761(undergraduate), ICL 6761 (graduate); Advanced ICL 4762 (undergraduate)/6762 (graduate). Who is Eligible: West TN teachers, librarians and administrators, all grade levels K-12, all subject areas. When: This is typically held the first three weeks of June from 9:00am- 3:00pm, M-F Ball Hall, Room 309, UofM Scholarship includes: In-state tuition for course(3 Credit hours),$100 stipend, 2 hours of flight instruction (if unable to participate in flight instruction, do not apply) Fieldtrip to Huntsville, AL Contact: Ms. Bonnie Cummings, Director, Aerospace Education Workshop, 420 C Ball Hall, ICL Department, College of Education, The University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152. Phone: 901.678.5356, Fax: 901.678.3881, Email: bjcmmngs@memphis.edu Grants STEMfinity: This is a great comprehensive list of STEM grants from federal sites and corporations with links to each. Lots of K-12 opportunities are listed. stemfinity.com/STEM-Education-Grants STEM Web Resources for Teachers (Be sure to look at the Useful Links Page for a variety of different sources by STEM subject area) STEM Resources.com Cyber Learning Community: stemresources.com National Science Foundation Classroom Resources: nsf.gov/news/classroom/ PBS STEM: pbs.org/teachers/stem/ National Geographic Learning: ngsp.com/tabid/1774/Default.aspx American Society for Engineering Education asee.org/conferences-and-events/outreach/egfi-program PBS Design Squad pbskids.org/designsquad/?campaign=noflash_designsquad PBS RISD Lessons Computer Science Resources computerscienceonline.org/degree-programs/ Next Generation Science Standards by Grade and Topic standards.nsta.org/AccessStandardsByTopic.aspx Tennessee State Curriculum Standards tn.gov/education/standards/index.shtml STEM Opportunities UofM Students UofM Faculty K-12 Students Teachers Useful Links Give to CRISTAL Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .