#http://www.memphis.edu/police/incidents/alerts.php
Personal Safety Alerts - Police Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Police Services Staff Directory About Incidents Tiger Escort Safety Info Lambuth Incident Reporting Daily Incident Log Personal Safety Alerts Silent Witness Report Reporting Sex Offenses Home Police Services Incident Reporting Personal Safety Alerts Personal Safety Alerts October 30, 2015 The University and Police Services are issuing this message in a continuing effort to communicate safety information to our students, faculty, staff, and visitors. The Memphis Police Department (MPD) is investigating an off-campus robbery that was reported to the MPD around 12:30 AM today, Friday, October 30, 2015. The incident was reported to have occurred inside an apartment in the 3500 block of Southern near Minor Road. Four (4) men carrying firearms entered an apartment and demanded personal items and cash. The four men left in a gray SUV, possibly driving south toward Spottswood Avenue. According to the MPD, all four men were described as African-American, 5’8”-5’10”, medium build, 25-30 years old. Preliminary clothing descriptions were: (1) All black clothing with a green belt; (2) white, “True Religion” hooded sweatshirt and jean shorts; (3) red jacket and blue jeans; and (4) unknown clothing description. The University Police Department is working with the Memphis Police Department to investigate this incident. The Memphis Police Department can be contacted at 901-545-2677 (545-COPS). The university police can be contacted at 901-678-4357 (678-HELP). Please program our number into your cell phone's "speed dial." The university police can also be contacted at police@memphis.edu or anonymously at . Additionally, you can contact the Tiger Escort Program, which provides on-campus escorts from dusk until dawn, by calling 901-678-4663/HOME. Students at the Law School can request an escort at the security desk. You can sign up to receive TigerText emergency alert messages at . September 17, 2015 The University and Police Services are issuing this message in a continuing effort to communicate safety information to our students, faculty, staff, and visitors. A robbery was reported to Police Services at approximately 7:45 PM, which occurred on Goodman near Southern. A man got out of a dark SUV and punched another man who was crossing the street. The suspect took the man's wallet and cell phone and got back in the SUV, which was last seen driving east on Southern from Goodman. The suspect was described as a male African-American, 25 years old, approximately 5’8”-5’10”, wearing a yellow shirt, dark zip up jacket, dark sweat pants, and a beanie or stocking cap. He may have had dreadlocks tucked into the cap. The only description of the driver of the SUV was a male African-American in his twenties. No weapon was involved. The University Police Department is working with the Memphis Police Department to investigate this incident. The Memphis Police Department can be contacted at 901-545-2677 (545-COPS). The university police can be contacted at 901-678-4357 (678-HELP). Please program our number into your cell phone's "speed dial." The university police can also be contacted at police@memphis.edu or anonymously at . Additionally, you can contact the Tiger Escort Program, which provides on-campus escorts from dusk until dawn, by calling 901-678-4663/HOME. Students at the Law School can request an escort at the security desk. You can sign up to receive TigerText emergency alert messages at . August 25, 2015 The University and Police Services are issuing this message in a continuing effort to communicate safety information to our students, faculty, staff, and visitors. This morning (Tuesday, August 25, 2015), at 11:36 AM, university police officers responded to the report of an off-campus robbery at Patterson and Cowden. A man, armed with a silver handgun, reportedly approached two men and demanded money and personal items. The three men had arranged to meet via the Internet to sell/buy a vehicle. No one was injured. The man responsible was described as being African-American, 25-35 years old, approximately 5'4”, 130 lbs., light complexion, wearing a light blue baseball cap, a short-sleeve shirt with horizontal green and white stripes, and light-colored pants. The man was last seen running northbound on Patterson toward Poplar. The University Police Department is working with the Memphis Police Department to investigate this incident. The Memphis Police Department can be contacted at 901-545-2677 (545-COPS). The university police can be contacted at 901-678-4357 (678-HELP). Please program our number into your cell phone's "speed dial." The university police can also be contacted at police@memphis.edu or anonymously at . Additionally, you can contact the Tiger Escort Program, which provides on-campus escorts from dusk until dawn, by calling 901-678-4663/HOME. Students at the Law School can request an escort at the security desk. You can sign up to receive TigerText emergency alert messages at . August 2, 2015 The University and Police Services are issuing this message in a continuing effort to communicate safety information to our students, faculty, staff, and visitors. A robbery was reported to Police Services at approximately 11:00 PM that occurred in the 3500 block of Walker. Two men were reported to have approached a man as he got out of his vehicle near Walker and Brister. One of the men was armed with a handgun and demanded personal property. The two men were last seen running West on Walker toward Brister. The victim was not injured. The men responsible were described as African-American, in their early 20’s. Both were wearing black tee shirts and dark jeans. The man with the weapon was approximately 5’9” and the other 6’ tall. The University Police Department is working with the Memphis Police Department to investigate this incident. The Memphis Police Department can be contacted at 901-545-2677 (545-COPS). The university police can be contacted at 901-678-4357 (678-HELP). Please program our number into your cell phone's "speed dial." The university police can also be contacted at police@memphis.edu or anonymously at . Additionally, you can contact the Tiger Escort Program, which provides on-campus escorts from dusk until dawn, by calling 901-678-4663/HOME. Students at the Law School can request an escort at the security desk. You can sign up to receive TigerText emergency alert messages at . July 13, 2015 The University and Police Services are issuing this message in a continuing effort to communicate safety information to our students, faculty, staff, and visitors. Police Services became aware this morning that a robbery was reported to the Memphis Police Department on Saturday, July 11th, 2015, around 2:52 AM. Three men were reported to have approached two people walking on Spottswood near Goodman (off campus). One of the men was armed with a handgun and demanded personal property, including cell phones, from the two people. The men responsible were described as African-American, in their late teens to early 20's. All three had slim builds and were wearing dark clothing. The man with the weapon was wearing a Chicago Bulls cap. The three men were last seen driving east on Spottswood in a brown, four door sedan, possibly a Toyota Camry. The University Police Department is working with the Memphis Police Department to investigate this incident. The Memphis Police Department can be contacted at 901-545-2677 (545-COPS). The university police can be contacted at 901-678-4357 (678-HELP). Please program our number into your cell phone's "speed dial." The university police can also be contacted at police@memphis.edu or anonymously at . Additionally, you can contact the Tiger Escort Program, which provides on-campus escorts from dusk until dawn, by calling 901-678-4663/HOME. Students at the Law School can request an escort at the security desk. You can sign up to receive TigerText emergency alert messages at . UPDATE FROM 05/22/2015: The University and Police Services are issuing this message as a follow-up to the safety alert issued on Tuesday, May 19, 2015, and to provide updated safety information to our students, faculty, staff, and visitors. The two men who were reported to have approached a man outside of Wilder Tower around 2:20 Tuesday afternoon and demanded money and threatened him, have been identified. Arrest warrants for both men were issued yesterday through General Sessions Criminal Court. Neither of the men have a connection to the UofM. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the campus community for the information we received in response to our TigerText and email, which helped lead to both men being identified. I would also like to thank UofM police officers Captain Kevin Langellier and Detective Sammie Ballard for their prompt, thorough, and diligent work in this case. --Bruce Harber May 19, 2015 The University and Police Services are issuing this message in a continuing effort to communicate safety information to our students, faculty, staff, and visitors. This afternoon (Tuesday, May 19, 2015) at approximately 3:30 PM, a man reported to Police Services that at around 2:20 PM today, he left Wilder Tower by way of the east doors (toward Clement Hall) and was approached by two men who demanded money and threatened him. The man yelled at the two men to leave him alone, which drew the attention of passersby. The two men left the area, walking westbound towards Patterson Hall. No vehicle was seen. No weapon was seen or indicted, and the victim was not harmed. The two men were described as: An African-American man, 18-25 years old, 5'7"-5'9", slim build, approximately 150 lbs., short curly hair, dark complexion, wearing a white T-shirt and dark shorts An African-American man, 18-25 years old, 6'0" -6'2", muscular build, approximately 200 lbs., very short haircut, dark complexion wearing a white T-white, and white shorts The photos included at the end of this message show the two men identified by the victim as the two who approached him today. Police Services is requesting that anyone who has any information about this incident or these two men to contact Police Services immediately at 901-678-4357 (678-HELP). The University Police Department is working with the Memphis Police Department to investigate this incident. The Memphis Police Department can be contacted at 901-545-2677 (545-COPS). Please program Police Services' emergency number (901-678-4357) into your cell phone's "speed dial." The university police can also be contacted at police@memphis.edu or anonymously at . Additionally, you can contact the Tiger Escort Program, which provides escorts from dusk until dawn, by calling 901-678-4663/HOME. You can sign up to receive TigerText emergency alert messages at . Incident Reporting Daily Incident Log Personal Safety Alerts Silent Witness Report Reporting Sex Offenses Campus Security &amp; Fire Safety Report This report is published annually Daily Incident Log Log covers the most recent 60-day period Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/2/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .