#http://www.memphis.edu/cris/about/faqs.php
Frequently Asked Questions - CRIS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Campus Recreation Intramural Services About Membership Classes/Programs Aquatics Intramurals/Club Sports Facilities About News History Staff Contact Us Hours of Operation Calendar Employment Opportunities Frequently Asked Questions Home CRIS About Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Membership If I am not a Faculty/ Staff or Student at the University of Memphis, may I have a membership at the SRFC facilities? Yes, you may become an individual or household Degreed Alumni or Community Member of the facility for a fee: Includes full facility use and limited guest access. I'm a UofM Alumnus. Can I use the Recreation Center? Yes, you can pay a minimum donation ($35 per year) to the Alumni Association by calling 678-ALUM, then pay $5 per visit, or you can buy a Degreed Alumni or Community membership. How do I obtain a Membership Application to the Student Recreation and Fitness Center? Come to the Recreation Center located at 620 Echles, Monday through Friday 8 am – 4:30 pm, and you can get basic information from the supervisor on duty to start your membership paperwork at the entry counter. Membership appointments are available by calling 90.678.3459. Parking Where can I park? Monthly and daily parking passes can be purchased through the Parking Office. Free street parking is available on Echles Street and Spottswood Road (limited spaces). The Parking Office is located on Zach Curlin Street to the left of the parking garage. Bikes can be parked at the racks provided. Call 901.678.2212 or visit When dropping off or picking up users, please use the adjacent parking lot. Bikes must be placed in bike racks and cannot be placed in facilities or on stair hand rails. Programs What programs come with membership? Browse this website and look under Programs and Services to learn more about what's offered and rates. identifiation cards Why doesn't my ID work when scanned at the Recreation Center? Reasons could include: Your ID is expired or you're no longer a member. Student fees need to be paid. You have a Household Membership but your child is now over 21 years old. You are a faculty or staff member with no membership (faculty/staff can use the facility without membership by paying $5 per visit with valid ID; identify your status at the entry). You're a part-time (less than 6 hrs) student (P/T students pay $3 per visit at the Recreation Center; identify yourself as part-time at the entry. You have a University Guest ID card. You don't have recreation privileges. You are a current Southwest student or IEI student. You need to pay Activity Fees at the Bursar's Office to access the Recreation Center. You're a UofM faculty or staff and going to class as a UM student at the University. You may have dual status. Faculty/staff status has priority over student status, causing the ID to not scan correctly. Identify yourself as dual status at the entry and talk to supervisor to gain access. How many guests may I bring? You can only bring one guest per valid UofM ID. You must sign for them at the front entry. You are liable for their actions and must stay with them throughout your visit. You could lose recreation privilege if this rule is violated. Do I need my ID to go to class in the Recreation Center? Yes, the first time you forget your ID, you will be asked to sign in and be escorted to your instructor. The next time you forget your ID, we charge a fee of $5. Help! I lost my ID! Items found are kept for 24 hours, then logged in and sent to the Bursar's Office or Student Conduct, depending on the situation. If your old ID was replaced, it will no longer work if a new one is made. We confiscate duplicate IDs and all non-working IDs. About News History Staff Contact Us Hours of Operation Calendar Employment Opportunities Frequently Asked Questions Updates on New Student Recreation Center Keep up with news on our New Student Recreation Center Apply for a Job Explore job opportunities at the Recreation Center Join an Intramurals/Club Sports Team Participate in competitive play in selected sport events! Sign up for a Fitness Program Interested in staying in shape? Checkout our fitness programs. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .