#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/future_students/
Future Students - Graduate School - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate School Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Programs Events Resources Future Students Admissions for International Students Apply to Graduate School Degree Program Contacts Disability Resources for Students Graduate School Contact Information English Conditional Admission for International Students Federal Assistance Opportunities Financial Aid Office Graduate Admissions Office Revised GRE ETS Workshop Information GRE Fee Reduction Request Search for Off-Campus Housing Tennessee Eligibility Verification for Entitlements Act Test Score Information University Fees &amp; Tuition Home Graduate School Future Students Welcome Prospective Students! This site offers links to resources of interest for students who may be interested in becoming graduate students at the University of Memphis. If information you seek is not provided on this page, you may contact your program of interest directly or review the Graduate Catalog. Prospective students must apply directly to the Graduate School; however, many academic units have separate departmental applications, different application deadlines and/or additional requirements for admission. Refer to program descriptions in the Graduate Catalog for more information on requirements. Applications are available for on-line submission at banssbprod.memphis.edu/pls/PROD/bwskalog.P_DispLoginNon . A non-refundable application and processing fee of thirty-five dollars U.S. (U.S. $35.00) is required of every applicant. If the program to which you are applying requires letters of recommendation, have them sent directly to the department. Some departments may also require other material such a statement of professional goals. Be sure to check with them. Advisors for graduate students are typically department based. Often, departments will assign advisors to students upon admission based on areas of interest. After students have matriculated and enrolled in coursework under various faculty members, students may select a different advisor. To inquire about your academic advisor, please contact the office of the graduate coordinator or department chair for your program. Master's Degree Programs The following Graduate School admissions requirements are minimum standards that identify the pool of masters level applicants from which each academic unit makes its selection. For admission to a degree program, applicants should allow a reasonable amount of time for necessary documents to be processed by the appropriate department and Graduate Admissions (approximately three to six weeks). Baccalaureate Degree: Applicants must provide an official transcript showing that a bachelor's degree has been awarded by an accredited college or university. In addition, transcripts from any other college or university attended must be requested. (Students who received bachelor's degrees from The University of Memphis may disregard this requirement.) Only transcripts received directly from an issuing institution are considered official. For domestic students, signed and sealed transcripts that have been in the applicant's possession can be used for admission purposes; however, official transcripts must later be requested. Personal copies marked "Issued to Student" are not acceptable as official documents. Entrance Examinations: New applicants (except for the MALS program) must have taken an appropriate entrance examination within five years of the application date. Contact the appropriate program for information on which tests and what scores are acceptable. Scores on MAT exams written in less than 2 month intervals are not acceptable. Test scores must be sent directly to Graduate Admissions from the testing agency.The University of Memphis institution code number for reporting ETS scores is R-1459. See program descriptions for more information on requirements. Some programs may waive the entrance examination requirement for applicants with exceptional credentials, extensive professional experience, or a prior graduate degree from an accredited institution. These waivers are at the discretion of the academic program. Check individual program descriptions for details. EDUCATION SPECIALIST (ED.S.) PROGRAM The Education Specialist degree is designed for the educator-practitioner who desires post-masters training but who does not wish to earn a doctorate. This program is administered by the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences; please refer to the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences section of the Graduate Catalog for a more complete description or contact the dean's office in the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences for additional details. DOCTORAL DEGREE PROGRAMS The following Graduate School admissions requirements are minimum standards that identify the pool of doctoral level applicants from which each academic unit makes its selection. Some academic units may have separate departmental applications and/or additional requirements, such as portfolios, proficiency examinations, auditions, etc. Refer to the appropriate program description in the Graduate Catalog for details. A Baccalaureate or Master's Degree as specified by the program: Applicants must provide an official transcript showing an earned bachelor's or master's degree, depending on program requirements. (Students who received bachelor's degrees from The University of Memphis may disregard this requirement.)The degree must have been awarded by an accredited college or university. Only transcripts received directly from an issuing institution are considered official. For domestic students, signed and sealed transcripts that have been in the applicant's possession can be used for admission purposes; however, official transcripts may later be requested. Personal copies marked as "Issued to Student" are not acceptable as official documents. Entrance Examinations: New applications to the Graduate School require submission of an appropriate entrance examination test score that is not more than five years old. Contact your program for information on which tests and what scores are acceptable. Test scores must be sent directly to Graduate Admissions by the testing agency.The University of Memphis institution code number for reporting ETS scores is R-1459. Some programs may waive the entrance examination requirement for applicants with exceptional credentials, extensive professional experience, or a prior doctoral degree from an accredited institution. See individual program descriptions for details. ADMISSION TO NON-DEGREE STATUS Graduate Non-Degree The Graduate Non-Degree classification is for domestic students who wish to enroll in graduate courses but who do not wish to pursue a graduate degree at the University or whose applications are incomplete. Graduate non-degree applicants must show proof of having earned a baccalaureate degree at the time the application. At the end of the first semester of course work, the Graduate Non-Degree student may be required to furnish an official transcript showing at minimum a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university. Before registering for a second semester of graduate level coursework, the non-degree student is required to sign a release form agreeing that additional coursework will not apply to degree programs. Academic areas may restrict non-degree students to designated courses only. Graduate Non-Degree students who later decide to matriculate for a degree must submit a new admissions application to The Graduate School and must meet all admissions requirements. Master's students in programs requiring 36 hours or fewer are limited to 12 credit hours while in non-degree status. Students in degree programs requiring more than 36 hours must take at least 2/3 of the credit hours required in that program after acceptance into the program. Doctoral students must take at least 2/3 of the credit hours required in a degree program after acceptance into the program. Students should also note that some academic units count course work toward a degree only after admission or have more restrictive policies regarding the number of non-degree hours that count toward the degree. Graduate non-degree students are responsible for being thoroughly familiar with the rules, regulations, and degree requirements of the Graduate School and of the academic units, as well as with the Code of Student Conduct. Non-degree students must also maintain a 3.00 GPA in graduate courses in order to re-enroll and are not eligible for graduate assistantships. Combination Senior An undergraduate senior student at The University of Memphis may earn up to 12 hours of graduate credit while enrolled on a Combination Senior/Graduate Non-Degree basis. The student must have a total cumulative GPA of at least 3.0 and must have filed with his or her graduation analyst a plan for completing the bachelor's degree within two semesters. Eligible students must apply for admissions to Graduate School and may enroll concurrently in undergraduate and select graduate courses. Approval to register for graduate credit does not imply approval for admission into a graduate program at the University or that the credit earned will be accepted towards a graduate degree. After the bachelors degree is awarded, a Combination Senior/Graduate Non-Degree student must make formal application in order to be admitted to a graduate degree program. Courses taken for graduate credit may not be used for both the baccalaureate and graduate degree. Combination Seniors are not eligible for graduate assistantships. READMISSION Once accepted into a degree program, a student is expected to enroll every semester thereafter (excluding summer sessions) and make satisfactory progress toward the degree. A student who does not enroll for a fall or spring semester must apply for readmission. Submission of a readmission application does not ensure acceptance. An application for readmission may be rejected or additional requirements may be imposed on the student. A readmitted student must follow the rules, prerequisites, and degree requirements listed in the Graduate Catalog. Students writing a thesis or dissertation or engaged in a culminating project must enroll on a continuous basis (fall and spring) until the thesis, dissertation, or project is complete. If, however, a student completes a thesis, dissertation, or project during a summer session, they must be enrolled in the applicable credit during the summer. ACADEMIC COMMON MARKET The Academic Common Market is designed to allow students from southern states to pay in-state tuition while attending The University of Memphis. This arrangement is available only for students whose home states do not offer the designated program. The participating states are Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and West Virginia. A list of available programs can be obtained from the state coordinator in a students home state or from the office of the Vice Provost for Graduate Programs. There are two requirements: (1) Students must be fully admitted to a degree-seeking program that has been approved as an Academic Common Market program (non-degree and conditional students are ineligible); and (2) Students must obtain a letter certifying residency from their home states Academic Common Market coordinator. Future Students Admissions for International Students Apply to Graduate School Degree Program Contacts Disability Resources for Students Graduate School Contact Information English Conditional Admission for International Students Federal Assistance Opportunities Financial Aid Office Graduate Admissions Office Revised GRE ETS Workshop Information GRE Fee Reduction Request Search for Off-Campus Housing Tennessee Eligibility Verification for Entitlements Act Test Score Information University Fees &amp; Tuition Get More Information Request information about a specific program of interest. Graduate Catalog Learn more about our programs. Apply Now Submit your application today. Support Graduate Education Your gifts make a difference! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .