#http://www.memphis.edu/dualenrollment/faq.php
Frequently Asked Questions - Dual Enrollment - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Dual Enrollment High School Based Campus Based Home Schooled Counselors Teachers Home Dual Enrollment Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions 1. What is Dual Enrollment? An opportunity for high school students to earn college credit while meeting the requirements for high school graduation. 2. What are the benefits of Dual Enrollment? Getting a head start on college by earning college credit while meeting high school graduation requirements. 3. What is the difference in School Based and Camp us Based Dual Enrollment? The high school based initiative is a special program offered at several area high schools. The campus based "concurrent enrollment" program refers to courses taken on the main campus or satellite campuses. Concurrent enrollment has different admissions standards. 4. How many courses can a student take per term? The high school based program will allow two per semester. The main campus program allows one per semester. 5. Can I use these courses toward high school graduation? Yes, with the approval of your high school. 6. Do you have specific courses offered for Dual Enrollment? Consult your high school guidance counselor for the course offerings at your school. Common courses offered in this program include English Composition, U.S. History, College Algebra, Elementary Calculus, and Biology. Some schools are offering other courses. 7. Will Dual Enrollment courses transfer to other colleges and universities? It has been our experience that in most cases the courses transfer without a problem. However, I would consult the school(s) you are planning to attend after high school graduation to be sure. 8. If I leave the school mid-semester, may I continue my Dual Enrollment class at my new school? Students who transfer from one school to another may continue the same Dual Enrollment class only at the new school’s discretion. It is the student’s responsibility to see that already completed work and grades are transferred from one school to the other. If the new school does not offer the same course for Dual Enrollment, or if Dual Enrollment is provided by an institution other than the University of Memphis, the student cannot continue in the UofM program. 9. One of my parents is a state employee or works at the University of Memphis. Will I receive an additional discount for my Dual Enrollment class? Because the cost of the high school based Dual Enrollment courses has been considerably discounted already, no additional discounts will be applied to this program. 10. What if I do not have a test score, am I eligible to take a course? Students must have taken the ACT, SAT, PSAT, PLAN or ASPIRE prior to entering the program. The PSAT, PLAN, or ASPIRE can only be used is the student has not taken the ACT or SAT. 11. If I do not meet the requirements, can I get an exception? Exceptions are not typically granted for this program. 12. Where can I get an application for Dual Enrollment? The dual enrollment online application link can be found on the dual enrollment home page. 13. What is the deadline to apply for Campus Based Dual Enrollment? Application should be submitted by July 1 for the fall term and December 1 for the spring term. 14. What is the contact information to find out more about Dual Enrollment at your institution? 15. How can I obtain a UUID and password that will enable me to use university library resources? The information you need is on your acceptance letter from the University. If you lose that piece of paper, you can call tech support (678-8888) and identify yourself as a Dual Enrollment student and request a User Name and Temporary Password. You must be prepared to give the technician either a Social Security number or your student U number (individual student U numbers are listed on the class rosters sent to teachers early in the semester). 16. If I apply to the University of Memphis for admission as a college freshman, how should I respond to questions on the application having to do with previous college experience? Since you didn't pay an application fee when you applied for Dual Enrollment classes, you will need to pay the $25 application fee for your college application. 17. Are there specific courses offered for Dual Enrollment at your institution for the Campus Based program? There are no specific courses that are offered just for Dual Enrollment students. Once a student decides what subject they are interested in the student will need to contact that department on campus for approval to register for the specific class. 18. Is financial aid available for Dual Enrollment? The dual enrollment grant can be used for all dual enrollment programs if the student is eligible. 19. What is the Dual Enrollment Grant and how much does it cover for each course? There are changes in the funding for this program beginning the fall 2015 term. Refer to the link below for details. 20. Where can I find the Dual Enrollment online grant application? 21. Can I take a course in the Summer and still use the Dual Enrollment Grant? The dual enrollment grant may be available in the summer if you haven't already used up your eligibility. 22. What are the fees for one course? Consult your high school advisor for cost information for the high school based program. 23. I received a letter / phone call saying that I will be dropped from the class for nonpayment of fees. What do I do? If you have paid your fees to your high school, you will not be dropped. The computer has generated a response that does not apply to Dual Enrollment students. Contact your high school counselor. 24. If I am home schooled, am I still eligible to take a course? Home School students may qualify for the "concurrent enrollment" option and we offer courses at our Collierville Center for Home School students. 25. If I decide to withdraw from the course, what do I do? Contact your counselor immediately. 26. How do I order a transcript to be sent to other colleges or universities to which I am applying? To order a transcript, go to the UofM homepage and locate Transcripts from the A-Z list. All of the information you need will be there. You may ask that the transcript be sent immediately or request that it not be sent until the term is complete. 27. How do I obtain textbooks and other required materials for my class? Consult your high school counselor regarding textbooks for your dual enrollment course. 2015-2016 Changes See important changes to Dual Enrollment. Frequently Asked Questions Frequently asked questions about Dual Enrollment Admissions Visit the Office of Admissions Contact Us Contact us about Dual Enrollment Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .