#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/pdfs/weebly-guide.pdf
Weebly.com First Steps Weebly is the easiest way to build your own website. The first thing you need to do is go to to create an account. Then you will begin with the next steps. The Site Title Every site needs to have a title, which is why it's the first thing we ask for when you create a new site. too much about it here. The Web Address Every site must also have an address (like y.com for example) so that your visitors can find it. You have three options for choosing an address, and the address, like the title, can be very easily changed at any time: Option 1: Use a Subdomain of Weebly.com - This is an address like yoursite.weebly .com. Completely free to use. With these first steps done, your new site should look very simila r to the picture below: You're now ready to start building your site. In the process of building your site (and reading this guide) you'll be working with: Elements Elements are the basic building blocks of your site. All of your site content, be it tex t, pictures, videos or what have you, is added via an element. Pages Your site can have as many pages and sub - pages as you want, since there are no page limits for either free or paid site in this guide. Themes / Design You can select from any one of a number of themes and switch to a different theme at any time. This affects the look of your site. All of switch themes and take a close look at the theme options (like changing fonts) towards the end of the guide. With the basics done, the next step is to learn how to Add Your First Elements to a site . First Elements: Add Text Your Site As noted on the previous page, elements are the building blocks of your site. All of your content (aside from a few of these elements and add them to the first page of our example site. Text Elements Adding an element to a site is as simple as clicking on that element and dragging it to the content area of a page. Let's drag the most basic element -- the paragraph elem ent -- to this sample site. The paragraph element is exactly what it sounds like -- an element for writing text. You can write a word, a sentence or multiple paragraphs in a single element. Just click within the element to start editing. As you write your text, take notice of the blue toolbar at the top of the editor. Every element has its own toolbar with functions specific to that element. The text toolbar enables you to (from left to right) Bold , Italicize , Underline , change the colo r, increase the size and decrease the size of selected text. Beyond that you can align all the text in an element to the left, center or right, create both bulleted lists and numbered lists, and also undo / redo changes. One thing you may notice you can't do is change fonts. That's because the font is controlled through the site's theme and not within individual elements. Let's add some text to our example site: To add more text we could keep writing in this same element, add another paragraph element to the page, or use one of the three other text elements: Title - Used for adding titles / headers to a page. Paragraph w/ Title - A paragraph e lement with a spot for title already built in. Paragraph w/ Picture - A paragraph element with a spot for both a title and an image built in. Each of these elements use the same text editing toolbar we looked at above and you can stack as many of them as you want on a page. First Elements: Add Pictures Your Site . There are four elements th at can be used to add images to a site: The above mentioned paragraph with picture element. The picture element -- upload one image per element. The picture gallery element -- upload as many pictures as you like to create a gallery of clickable images. The slideshow element -- upload as many pictures as you like to create a slideshow of images. Adding any image element to your site works the same way as adding a text element - just drag it to the page. Uploading an image to a picture element is as sim ple as clicking the big blue Sample Image. This opens a dialog box where you select how you want to upload your image. You can: Upload an image from your computer. Select one from Flickr's free, searchable library of creative commons licensed images. Us ing this option will add a small copyright attribution to the footer of your site linking to the photographer who took the image. Enter the address of an image from out on the internet. You should only use this third option if you already own the image yo u're embedding. There are a number of different ways to change and edit an upload ed image. Th e first you'll notice is the little pop - over menu that appears above the image when you scroll over it. Using this you can: Link the image to site, page, email address or file. Add a caption to the image. Remove the image. The second is the blue toolbar that appears at the top of the screen when you click directly on the image. Use this toolbar (from left - to - right) to: Replace the current image with a new one. Set a border size (or no border at all). Select a gray or black border Posi tion the image to the left / center / right of the element (you can also drag the image within the element to do this). Use the Advanced option to set the margins around the image and enter Alt Text if needed (if you don't know what Alt Text is then don't worry about using it). The third is the Edit button that appears in the upper left of the image when you roll over it. This brings up our ImagePerfect editor. You can use this to crop, rotate and add effects to the image. You can also add more images to this picture element, but this is much more limiting than using our Slideshow or Gallery options. Re - size images by clicking and dragging the box found on the lower - right - corner of each. Our site now looks like this: Alter the Layout of a Page with the 2 Column Element By default, the content area of a page allows you only to stack elements one on top of another. No matter how many times you try to drag an element alongside an other element, it will always end up above or below that element. This works great, unless you want to line up some of your elements side - by - side in multiple columns. That's where the Two Column Layout comes in. The Two Column Layout Element works like any other element: just drag it to a page. It will stack above or beneath any other elements you've already placed on that page . This blue bar can be clicked and dragged to the right or left to increase / decrease the size of a column. Note that this bar does not appear on your published site, so your beautiful content will not be marred by a blue bar running down the middle. Moving an element is as simple clicking and then dragging on the blue bar at the top of the element. The text and image content we uploaded earlier has now been placed into the two column element. A column can contain more than just one element -- you can put as many elements as you like in each column. You can also place other elements above or below the two - column layout. Give it a try! Now that we've setup a basic home page, let's make some changes to our theme . Switch Themes and Edit Fonts Now that our site is coming along, this seems like a good time to decide which theme to use for the design. A theme can be selected at any time (whether at the b eginning, middle or end of the process of creating the site) and selecting a new theme does not delete or alter the content of your site. To change your theme, go to the Design tab: If you go to the All Themes section of the the Design tab, you'll see all the themes. These can be viewed as one big group or by looking through different categories like Busi ness or Wedding. Don't feel constrained by the categories - any theme can be used by any person or business to create a nice looking site. When you see a theme you like, scroll over it and click the Preview button to see how your own site looks with this theme. Click Use Theme to use the theme for your site, click Favorite to add it to your Favorites list or click Cancel to look through more themes. After you select a the me, use the Design Options section to set the default fonts for that theme. You can alter the fonts for your Site Title, Paragraph Titles, Paragraph Text (this is most of the text on your site) and for your Links. We have roughly one hundred different fonts to choose from. Let's use Josefin Sans Std for this site. With a new theme and font chosen, let's look at how to Edit a Theme's Header Image . Edit the Header A lot of our themes include an ar ea for a header image (you'll know your theme includes this if there's a default image at the top of theme). As it's doubtful you'll want to use the default image on any of your pages, we've built an easy to use header creation tool called ImagePerfect so you can make your own header. Note that if your theme does not have a default header image, you won't be able to use this feature unless you select another theme. To get started, scroll over the header image and click the Edit Image button: After you do this, you'll probably want to go ahead and delete the default image. Click the image and then click the red X in the corner to do so. To add an image to the header, click the Add Image button in the upper right. This gives you the option to select your own image... Or to choose a Creative Commons licensed photo from Flickr. You can use the provided field to search for an appropriate image for your site. Once you upload or select an image, you can edit it. This image is too big for the header of the page. Images can be re - sized using the little bubbles at each corner and side of the image. And an image can be dragged by clicking anywhere on it and dr agging it. Use the provided tools at the top of the page to edit and add text / effects to the image as needed. When you're happy with an image, select the Save button to Save it. You can use the arrow to the right of the Save button to choose whethe r to save the image to every page of the site, just this page or to select only certain pages to save it to. In that way you can have different headers on different pages if you want. And here's how the page looks with the Saved image. You can scroll ba ck over a Saved header to edit it some more. Keep in mind that multiple images can be added to the same header just by continuing to add images using the Add Image button. With this done, let's move on and Add More Pages to the site . Create More Pages for Your Site Whether you're a free user or a subscriber to our Pro service, your site can have as many pages and sub - pages as needed. We place no limits whatsoever on the number of pages that can be added to a site. Creating a new page is as simple as going to the Pages tab and clicking the Add Page button. There is an option to Add a Page or Add a Blog. For now let's focus on just creating New Pages. Clicking the Add Page button adds a new p age to your list. Working from top - to - bottom you can: Edit the Page (which will take you back to the elements area of the editor that we've previously been looking at) Copy the Page to use as the basis for a new page Delete the Page Change the Page's name Hide the Page from the Navigation Menu . If this is unchecked the page is accessible via the site's navigation. If the box is checked then the page is hidden from the navigation (though you can easily create your own links to hidden pages) Password Pr otect this Page, which requires a subscription to our Pro service Link Page to an External Site (creating a navigation link that leads to another site entirely). Adjust the Advanced Settings. The Advanced Settings for each page are useful for improving your site's Search Engine Optimization. If you don't know what this is, just ignore it for now. You can learn more about SEO via the appropriate section of our help site (once you're more f amiliar with putting a site together). Let's add several new pages to the example site (clicking Add Page again will add another page and save the changes to the page you were working on): a page for Sweet baked goods, a page for Savory bakes, an about O ur Chefs a page, a Write Us page for a contact form, a Visit Our Shop page to provide the address, directions and a map. You can re - arrange the order of the pages by clicking and dragging them up and down the list. Dragging a page to the top of the list will make that page your Home, which is indicated by the house icon to the far right of the page name. The Home page can have whatever name you want it to have -- the name for this site's Home has been changed to Welcome. Let's create a sub - page by dragg ing the Write Us page underneath and to the right of the Visit Our Shop page. Sub - pages appear in the site navigation menu as part of a drop - down menu for whatever page they're connected to (well see how this looks in a moment). To create a sub - pages, just drag one page underneath another page and then drag it to the right until you see each one connected to the main page via a dotted line. You can have as many sub - pages of a main page as you want. Now the navigation menu for our sample site (which pre viously just showed a link to Home) includes links to all the pages we created. And if we scroll over the Portfolio link with the mouse pointer, a drop - down menu appears with a link to each of the sub - pages we created. To edit the content of a page ju st click on its link from the navigation menu or go to the Pages tab, select the page from the list and click the Edit Page button. Now let's take a look at how to Add a Blog to a site . Start a New B log To create a blog, go to the Pages tab of the editor and click the New Blog button. This will add the blog to your list of pages. Give the blog a name and then click Edit Page to start adding content. A new blog starts with a sample post (that you can either edit or delete) and a sidebar with some default content that you can easily change. To create a new post for your blog, use the New Post button at the top of the blog itself. Your blog post has a title and a content area. The title should generally be short - no more than a sentence long or so. The content area includes a basic paragraph element which you can either edit or delete. Adding content to a blog post works the sam e way as adding content to a regular page - just drag elements into the post and edit them to add content. Once you've added your content you can categorize the post - these categories will appear on your sidebar, making it easier for visitors to your b log to find posts that cover certain topics. Categories can be whatever you like and it isn't necessary to use them. Now you can Publish the post to your live site (which will make it instantly available) or Save to Drafts to edit / publish i t later. I f you save the post as a draft, it'll be accessible to you through a drafts area at the top of the blog page from within the editor (along with any other drafts you've saved). Just click the link to the post from this drafts area to edit it further a nd Sav e / Publish. Every new post you Publish will appear at the very top of the page, pushing older posts further down the page. After you've added seven or eight posts to the page, older posts will be moved off the main page to still accessible archive page s. The YouTube Video Element Our YouTube Video element allows you to share videos from - you guessed it - YouTu be. This element can be found within Multimedia, all the way over on the far right of the element bar. Drag this element to a page to get started. Then click anywhere in the element to br ing up the Toolbar. You need to enter the direct link to the YouTube video in the provided field. To find the direct link, click the Share button beneath the YouTube video. And copy / paste from there. No other link will work, so be sure to use the one found here. Once you add the link, the video should show up on your page in less that a minute. If it does not show up then you are not using the direct link - please double check that you are copying the proper link using the option noted above. Once the link is in place, you can determine the size of th e video player and how you want to position it on the page. Publish Your Site and Next Steps Now that you've added some basic content to your site, this is a good time Publish it. To do so, just use the Publish button in the upper right corner of the editor. This will bring up a verification box, letting you know your site has been Published. You can click the Published address to view your site (you can also give this address out so th at other people can use it to visit your site), use the Facebook and Twitter buttons to link your friends and followers at either provider to your site, and click the "x" in the corner of the box to close the box and continue editing your site. Of cours e, you are probably not done with your site at this point, and that's OK. You can continue to add content through the editor whenever you like and then click the Publish button to push that content to your live site. You can also unpublish your site (if ne eds be) by going to Settings > Unpublish.