#http://www.memphis.edu/drs/policies/
Disability Policies - Disability Resources for Students - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Disability Resources for Students About Access Accommodations Technology Policies Career Programs Faculty Disability Policies Overview Student Responsibilities Student Disability Grievances University Disability Access Policy Attendance Policies Reduced Course Load Home Disability Resources for Students Disability Policies Disability Policies Under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act, qualified students with disabilities are entitled to equal access and opportunity to participate in all University programs, services and activities. A qualified student with a disability is one who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of the major life activities and who, with or without reasonable accommodation, meets the essential eligibility requirements for the programs, services and activities offered by the University. Following is a summary of the primary provisions relative to qualified students with disabilities under the aforementioned federal regulations: Discrimination is prohibited against qualified persons with disabilities in the areas of recruitment, admission and treatment after admission. All programs, services and activities must be available to students with disabilities in the most integrated setting possible. This requirement includes academic programs, field trips, practicums, internships, research, campus employment, graduate assistantships and all student services and student life activities. No student may be excluded from any course or any course of study solely on the basis of disability. When necessary, reasonable modification of course or degree requirements must be made for students with disabilities unless the requirements can be demonstrated as essential to the program or unless modification would fundamentally alter the nature of the program. Prohibitive rules may not be imposed on qualified students with disabilities, such as banning audio recorders, service animals or other necessary equipment or aids in the classroom. The institution must provide appropriate auxiliary aids to qualified students with disabilities when necessary for full educational access. Auxiliary aids include interpreters, note takers, readers, books in alternate format, adaptive equipment, captioned films/videos, etc. Teaching techniques, as well as special equipment and devices used in the classroom, should be adapted in individual cases, when necessary, to ensure equal access. Educational materials must be provided in an alternate format that is effective for the student, when necessary, to ensure access to educational information. Alternate testing and evaluation methods must be used, when necessary, to ensure the student's achievement is being measured rather than his or her impaired sensory, manual or speaking skill, except where such skills are the factors that the test purports to measure. Classes must be relocated, when necessary, to permit access for students with mobility impairments. It is discriminatory to counsel students with disabilities toward more restrictive career objectives than other students with similar interests and abilities. Communications with persons with disabilities must be as effective as communications with others and sometimes must be accomplished by the use of auxiliary aids such as interpreters, telephone relay service for the deaf, the use of a computer, or alternate format materials such as large print, audio recording, etext or Braille for persons with visual impairments. A student with a disability cannot be required to accept an accommodation, aid, service, opportunity or benefit. It is unlawful to retaliate, coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any individual who exercises his/her rights under ADA, or who aids or assists others in doing so. Disability information is confidential and should not be disclosed without individual consent. Disability Policies Overview Student Responsibilities Student Disability Grievances University Disability Access Policy Attendance Policies Reduced Course Load Contact DRS DRS Announcements Student and Faculty Awards Thanks to Our Volunteer Note-takers! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .