#http://www.memphis.edu/commencement/diplomas/
Reorder Diplomas - Commencement Office - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Commencement Office Apply to Graduate Graduates Accommodations Diplomas Guests Faculty Diplomas Reorder Diplomas Diploma Mailing Schedule Request pickup or send designee Diploma Corrections Apostile/Notary of Diploma Diploma Framing Home Commencement Office Diplomas Reorder Diplomas This process is for diploma Reorders/Duplicates ONLY. If you have not received your original diploma and it has been more than three months since your commencement, please contact the Commencement Office at 901.678.5547. There is a $20 fee for diploma reorders. Once you complete the form you will have the option to pay on-line or print the form and send in a check payment. Please do not send cash. Once we receive your reorder request, it will take approximately two weeks for our vendor to process your diploma. When we receive your diploma from our vendor we will mail it to you as you specify below (standard or expedited shipping (once the diploma returns to the office from the vendor)), or you are welcome to pick it up at our office. If you are picking up your diploma in person, please make sure you bring a photo ID. If you would like to specify another individual to pick up your diploma, you must provide documentation to the Commencement Office by emailing us at commencement@memphis.edu . International diploma reorders will be mailed standard shipping only. FedEx overnight shipping is available to USA residences only (excludes Hawaii, Alaska and international) for an extra $18.00 and is non-refundable. If you live outside of the USA, the fast way to receive your diploma may be to indicate "Pick up" on your order form, ask someone who lives in the Memphis area to pick it up for you, then have that person mail it to you expedited mail. In order for us to release your diploma to someone else, we require an authorization email from you granting us permission and the name of the person who will be picking it up. If your name has changed or you would like to order an additional (duplicate) copy of your diploma because of a change in name, former name, etc., please understand that we follow Name Change practices and you may be required to do an official name change with the University. Before placing your order, you may want to contact our office to ensure your diploma will be ordered with the name you prefer and if not, how to go about changing your name. Instructions to order duplicate copy diploma Visit the Diploma Reorder Form Pay $20.00 online using credit card on a secure website or mail-in payment (make checks payable to the University of Memphis) Fill out one form per degree (for example, BA and MA) (Please disable pop-up blocker if applicable. Form will open in a new window) Important : Please note that a returned check or credit card service fee is $30. This fee applies to each check/draft or credit card returned unpaid by your financial institution. This fee will be assessed if a keying error on your part results in your financial institution's failure to honor the draft. Diplomas are considered state documents and must be provided to the graduate or a designee by the graduate (see above). Diplomas are not submitted electronically to any party. Lambuth campus diploma inquiries We are sorry, but there is no way to provide a copy or duplicate of a Lambuth University diploma, since the University is now closed. However, the current University of Memphis Lambuth campus does keep Lambuth academic records and you can request proof of graduation by obtaining a transcript, very easily. The transcript request form found online at and fax it to (731) 425-1916 or you can speak with Ann Childs at (731) 425-1988. Diplomas Reorder Diplomas Diploma Mailing Schedule Request pickup or send designee Diploma Corrections Apostile/Notary of Diploma Diploma Framing Contact Us Got questions? Let us know how we may assist you. Commencement Attendance Form Will you be attending Commencement? Inform us! News Keep up with Commencement related information. Commencement Live Can't attend Commencement? Watch it live! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .