#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/hiad/portfolio_req.php
Portfolio Requirements - LEAD - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Department of Leadership HIAD LDPS Faculty HIAD Menu Online Degree Resources Home LEAD HIAD Portfolio Requirements Portfolio Requirements College of Education Department of Leadership M.S. Leadership and Policy Studies Leadership &amp; Student Personnel Concentrations The portfolio is to be based on the compilation of objectives in the student's program of studies and the program competencies delineated in the Portfolio Matrix . In planning the portfolio, students should Meet with program advisor to review portfolio contents Meet with program advisor to review portfolio in progress Submit completed portfolio to advisor: Prior to the committee receiving the link to your portfolio, your committee chair must review and approve the content. Please give your chair adequate time for this review process. Once approved, the portfolio must be submitted to the committee at least two weeks prior to your defense date. Meet with program advisor to select one of the scheduled dates for your defense. The program advisor will put you on the schedule. Portfolio dates will be posted each semester on the HIAD web site. You should be prepared to defend your portfolio around mid-term of the semester you plan to graduate. (fall or spring semesters) Email announcement of portfolio defense to all HIAD faculty members. Defend approved portfolio at meeting of faculty committee. Students outside Memphis may conduct their portfolio defense via UMmeet Web Conferencing. Examples of items that could be included in the portfolio are: 1. Evidence of classroom experience papers projects summaries of activities annotated bibliography 2. Applications of program learning in a work related experience curriculum/ training materials workshops planned and/or attended programs planned committee work These items must appear in every portfolio: 1. An up-to-date resume 2. An approved program of studies 3. Table (matrix) that indicates the courses and competencies 4. An artifact (paper, project report, video, photograph) documenting each competency. If possible, use the graded paper (including faculty comments). If you have a revised or updated version, you may include both. In addition: Each item included in your portfolio must be dated If the item submitted as evidence is course related, the course number must be included and the graded version must be submitted Time, place, and nature of the activity from which the artifact derives must be clear Submit the artifact that is best evidence. For example, a committee report listing you as a member is better than an internship log page claiming participation A written reflection should be prepared to accompany each artifact. The student must show in the reflection the relationship that exists between the artifact and the competency. In the reflection you may give examples from up to three courses to demonstrate you have met the compentency. In the reflection, compare and contrast your experience with theories you studied in your masters classes. At your portfolio defense, prepare to talk about the following: 1. Look back across the materials in your portfolio and reflect on the process and progress you have made towards becoming a competent educational leader. Take a holistic look at your growth. What successes can you describe? Where did you miss the mark? What did you learn? How has your experience resulted in the improvement of your leadership skills? 2. During the final presentation of your portfolio to the faculty, you will be asked to reflect on your professional growth. Focus on what you have accomplished and how you know you have expanded your abilities in these areas. Develop a strategy for your future to continue to hone your leadership skills. Electronic Portfolio Guide/Tutorial The portfolio must be submitted in an electronic format. We recommend a program called Weebly. This is a free website builder that can be accessed with your browser at /. Additionally, the links below provide a tutorial to assist in developing your portfolio. Within the tutorial you will find a sample portfolio from a former student who used Weebly. Weebly Tutorial Handout Weebly Video Tutorial HIAD Menu Online Degree Resources Apply Now Graduate Catalog Need Help? Contact Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .