#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mis/2015FMIS4800001.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus MIS 4800 001 Strategy, Management, and Acquisition Fall 2015 3 Credit Hours Instructor: Dr. Judith C. Simon, Professor Phone: (901) 678 - 5932 E - mail: [ Your primary email address ] E - mail2: jsimon@memphis.edu Office: Fogelman Admin Building Room 308 Office Hours: Wednesdays 2:15 5:15 and other days by appointment Course Overview Explores the acquisition, development, and implementation of plans and policies to achieve efficient and effective information systems; investigates the issues and approaches in managing the IS function and how the IS function supports and enables organizational capabilities and strategies. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: isites. Most of the course for the MIS degree program. The prerequisites focus predominantly on various skills and technologies needed for business information system s, while MIS 4800 focuses on the managerial issues that occur because of those skills and technologies as well as the management issues regarding the people and procedures involved. Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : No textbook Location of Course Mat erials : Online sources will be widely used for content and assignments; some materials may be provided through eCourseware, handouts in class, etc. Co urse Objectives : This course focuses on the issues and techniques involved with the effective management of the IS function. The course takes a broad perspective by examining the internal, external, and strategic planning issues involved in IS management. Internal IS issues include the management of IS professionals, project teams, and the acquis ition of hardware, software, and agent in managing the development and implementation of computer based information systems and in managing the evolving IS organiza tion. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree BBA pdf Course Methodology All course activities will have specific directions that must be followed to earn full credit. Most activities may be based on announced topics being studied each week, although additional topics are often added that are current IS issues that may need fu rther study. Some course activities will come from instructor information, while others will involve searching for new information online and providing reports. Assignments will be provided each week. Some will be done in class in the same class period where they are assigned (attendance required for these assignments). Some assignments will involve doing some topic research online and summarizing the findings, perhaps presenting or discussing results in class. Team activities may be included for some assignments. The number of points possible for a course assignment varies somewhat depending on the level and type of work involved. The points possible will be shown with each assignment. Most instructions and due dates will b e provi ded within the eCourseware site for this course, usually in a Discussion Forum or a Dropbox. Some instructions may be provided in class. Each deadline for access, you can still submit the assignme nt by email to jsimon@memphis.edu . Points will be subtracted based on how late your submission is. However, you also have an option of earning bonus points on some assignments. For example, if an assignment aske d you to locate and summarize finding s from three published articles, you could get additional points by doing more than the assigned number of articles. Keep in mind that quality of work is a major part of the decision as to points earned, not just the n umber of articles in assignments of this type. Plagiarism will also negatively affect the points earned on an assignment. Note: You must earn any bonus points as part of your submission by the assigned due date . You cannot get credit for extra work or late assignments during the last week of the semester. Student's Expectations: Students should plan to contact the instructor with any questions they have regarding assignment instructions. If there is not time during class to ask those questions, send them in an email message (use the UofM standard email system). Your instructor will reply as quickly as possible. Sometimes professor schedules include numerous meetings and other activities such as work with students or other faculty on projects, service activities, etc., but email message are encouraged any time you have questions. Grading and Evaluation Criteria Final Course Grades Grading will be based on the percentage of points earned out of the total points possible during the course. The points will come from the assignments and tests for the course. Points possible will continue to accumulate throughout the course, so you can easily calculate your current average by dividing your points earned so far by the assignment points possib le so far. The standard grading plan is used: A = 90% minimum; B = 80% minimum; C = 70% minimum; D = 60% minimum. Schedule of Activities The detailed schedule is provided in a separate file. The schedule is considered tentative so that topics of study can be changed during the course if some new and relevant topic needs to be included. Final Exam Schedule No final exam will be given. Several tests may occur during the course. The points on these tests will be higher than for regular assignments. All the accumulated points during the course will be used as the final grade. Course Policies E - MAIL: Use your University of Memphis email address ( username@memphis.edu ) when sending email messages to your instructor. DO NOT USE THE eLearn EMAIL OR AN EXTERNAL PROVIDER. Attendance: In - class activities include various discussions on topics being studie d. These disc ussions cann ot be replaced if you are not in class and participating. Only written activities can be replaced. However, you have the option of earnin g bonus points throughout the course that can rep lace any points missed by being absent from a class. (See information abo ve about bonus points.) Keep in mind that attendance physically is not enough you are expected to participate actively in discussions and team meeting s . Otherwise, you will not get the learning value intended that may be included as discussion questions on a test. Academic Integrity: Refer to the FCBE page regarding academic integrity. Scroll down to find this site: Cheating, plagiarizing, and other acts of dishonesty do not contribute to learning. They are, rather, attempts to avoid learning that defeat the very purpose of education. See below for our standards for academic integrity. Academic Integrity Netiquette Guide for Online Courses Understanding Plagiarism The Fogelman Student Code of Professionalism Should your professor have Office of Student Conduct website . ] Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance