#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/getinvolved/constituent/umar.php
University of Memphis Association of Retirees - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About Get Involved Academic Chapters Arts &amp; Sciences School of Law CEHHS Communication Sciences &amp; Disorders FCBE Engineering International MBA Journalism Kemmons Wilson School School of Nursing Masters of Public Administration Music Professional MBA University College Constituent Groups Band Frosh Camp Half Century Hispanic Alumni Lambuth Luther C. McClellan Memphis Pom UMAR Young Alumni Out of Town Atlanta Chicago Dallas Denver Houston Indianapolis Minneapolis Nashville New England New Orleans New York Orlando/Tampa San Francisco St. Louis Washington, DC Student Groups Future Alumni of Memphis Student Ambassador Board Scholarships Pouncer's Pals Home UMAA Get Involved University of Memphis Association of Retirees University of Memphis Association of Retirees For more information about UMAR , contact semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043. Parking Pass Update: Parking Services is extending the expiration on all Section 5 parking tags through the end of the year. Those with expired hangtags in this area will not be ticketed. If you have moved within the past year, Parking Services has requested an updated mailing address. Please send any updated addresses to alumniassociation@memphis.edu . Community News Children's books were donated by UMAR’s Book Club to the Family Resource Center at St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, which houses a library so children and their families can check out books during their extended stay at the facility. If you missed the opportunity to give, you may still do so by contacting Ms. Barbara Joyner at 901.595.4639 to schedule a time to drop-off the books or to retrieve an address to mail them to. UMAR's very own, Sheryl Maxwell, was featured in July's AROHE newsletter. Click here to view the newsletter. Get Involved! The University of Memphis Association of Retirees (UMAR) is an active organization or retired professors, administrators and staff. Its mission, consistent with that of the national organization in higher education, is “to advocate, to educate, and to serve.” UMAR conducts a variety of activities focused on meeting the social and networking needs of its members through special event luncheons, dinners, tours and trips, as well as helping to coordinate various volunteer activities within the University. With support from the Alumni Association, UMAR hopes to pursue programming that will provide educational opportunities for its members, support for the University and opportunities to be heard on major community issues. UMAR is a constituent organization of the University of Memphis Alumni Association, and members are entitled to the same benefits and privileges as all Alumni Association members. C lick here to view all benefits and services and click here to join online . Watch this video by President Virginia Reed, recorded at Vision Forum 2014, to learn more about UMAR and how you can get involved! UMAR Newsletter Click here to read the Fall 2015 Newsletter. Additional UMAR updates: UofM Parking Hangtags : If you need to renew your parking hangtag, contact Parking Services at 678-2122. They can mail the hangtag to you. TRACES Award Each year UMAR presents the Traces Award to a University retiree chosen by the three most recent winners for exemplifying the concept of remaining active in scholarly and/or civic pursuits into retirement. The award metaphorically refers to “remaining in the traces,” a concept dating to farm days. On behalf of the entire Alumni Association and UMAR, we would like to congratulate the TRACES Award winner for 2014, Jim Dorman. UMAR Scholarship The deadline for 2015 UMAR scholarships has passed. UMAR annually presents a one-time award of $1,000 for the academic year to a full-time undergraduate enrolled at the University that has completed at least two full years of study with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.25. Learn more about the scholarship here . The UMAR Scholarship has reached endowment status! Our new goal is to increase the amount of the scholarship given, so we must continue to raise money. Please help make this possible by making a donation to the fund. Complete this form and remit with your donation. For further information about the UMAR Scholarship, please contact Bob Boone, UMAR Scholarship Coordinator, at 901/757-5733. UMAR announced at its 2014 Holiday Brunch &amp; Silent Auction that it will now assist graduate students with financial need through its new Graduate Scholarship. This is a $1,000 non-endowed scholarship and, therefore, will only be offered so long as enough money resides in the account. For more information, or to donate, please contact alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.2586. Congratulations to Michael Maxey , recipient of the UMAR Memorial Scholarship, and Kimberlee Tucker , recipient of the UMAR Graduate Scholarship. Coffee &amp; Conversation UMAR hosted its annual Coffee &amp; Conversation brunch featuring special guests, President M. David Rudd and the 2015 recipient of the Willard R. Sparks Eminent Faculty Award. View Photos Holiday Brunch &amp; Silent Auction Tuesday, December 8, 2015 Silent Auction: 9:00 am - 10:30 am | Brunch: 10:00 am - 12:00 noon University Center River Room Join UMAR for a holiday brunch and silent auction. The TRACES Award Recipient will be honored. Cost: $20 per person. Parking will be available in the Zach Curlin Garage. Please RSVP by December 2. For more information or to RSVP, contact semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043. Spring Picnic UMAR met at Delta Blues Winery in May 2015 for its annual spring picnic featuring a wine tasting. In support of the Memphis Child Advocacy Center Teddy Bear Drive, guests brought teddy bears to donate. View Photos AROHE &amp; THERA UMAR is a member of both AROHE (Association of Retirement Organizations in Higher Education) and THERA (Tennessee Higher Education Retiree's Association.) AROHE is a nonprofit association that develops, enhances and advances campus-based retiree organizations and programs. By sharing research, innovative ideas and successful practices, AROHE emphasizes service to retired faculty and staff as they continue to make valuable contributions to their academic institutions. Click here to learn more. Officers and Board Members, 2014-15 Executive Committee President: Ginny Reed, vreed@memphis.edu President Elect: David Ciscel, davidciscel@gmail.com Treasurer: Nancy Hurley (BA '67), abhurley@memphis.edu Secretary: Nancy Matthews, nmatthws@memphis.edu Immediate Past President: Sheryl Maxwell, smaxwell@memphis.edu Members-at-Large Faculty: Bob R. Marchini, rmarchin@memphis.edu Coy Jones, ajones@memphis.edu Staff: Nancy Matthews , nmatthws@memphis.edu Ann Harbor Standing Committee Chairpersons Caring: Mary Haddock, mhaddock@memphis.edu Membership: Kathy Atkinson (BA '92, MA '96) , katkinsn@memphis.edu Newsletter: Janell Rudolph (BA '70, MA '72) , nrudolph@memphis.edu Program: Bill Crump (ME '71) Scholarship: Bob Boone, pboone@memphis.edu Get Involved Academic Chapters Arts &amp; Sciences School of Law CEHHS Communication Sciences &amp; Disorders FCBE Engineering International MBA Journalism Kemmons Wilson School School of Nursing Masters of Public Administration Music Professional MBA University College Constituent Groups Band Frosh Camp Half Century Hispanic Alumni Lambuth Luther C. McClellan Memphis Pom UMAR Young Alumni Out of Town Atlanta Chicago Dallas Denver Houston Indianapolis Minneapolis Nashville New England New Orleans New York Orlando/Tampa San Francisco St. Louis Washington, DC Student Groups Future Alumni of Memphis Student Ambassador Board Scholarships Pouncer's Pals Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .