#http://www.memphis.edu/cristal/stem_opportunities/links.php
Useful Links - CRISTAL - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Center for Research and Innovation in STEM Teaching and Learning (CRISTAL) About Membership STEM Opportunities Active Grants STEM Hub STEM Opportunities UofM Students UofM Faculty K-12 Students Teachers Useful Links Home CRISTAL STEM Opportunities Useful Links Useful Links Below are useful links for university faculty and students, parents, and K-12 teachers and students Click here for more information on ESP Tutoring. University of Memphis Libraries STEM Guides libguides.memphis.edu/STEM_Ed University of Memphis Technology Sandbox The technology sandbox is a pilot program located in the Libraries' Learning Commons designed to give students a hands-on opportunity to explore new technologies on campus. All students are welcome to use the space. memphis.edu/libraries/technology/sandbox.php The UofM Library has specialized librarians to assist you! Cody Behles MIS, CS, All Herff COE (ECE, ET, ME, CE) cbehles@memphis.edu 901.678.4558 Gail Barton Physics gpbarton@memphis.edu 901.678.8223 Pam Dennis Chemistry, ICL pdennis@memphis.edu 901.678.4566 Joyce McKibben Earth Science mckibben@memphis.edu 901.678.8213 Bess Robinson Biology, Mathematics merobnsn@memphis.edu 901.678.8206 Dorcas Davis Lambuth Library Director djcarhee@memphis.edu 901.678.1983 Need Additional Support? Try "Ask a Librarian" This chat room provides instant access to help @ A list of STEM related links by discipline are listed below in alpha order. Creativity Imagine it Project! Engineering Interview and Resume Information for Engineering Students by Anthony Fasano engineeringcareercoach.com/2014/04/24/questions-answers-engineering-students-resumes-interviews/ American Society for Engineering Education ASEE American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Minorities and Women / ASME Engineering-Go For it! egfi-k12.org eGFI IEEE Memphis IEEE IEEE Solutionists solutionists.ieee.org/ Lego Mindstorms Robotics Kits mindstorms.lego.com Lego Robotics League (Elementary Schools) Memphis FIRST Robotics Teams memphisfirstteams.org National Academy of Engineering NAE National Engineering Week Foundation Teach Engineering Try Computing! TryNano US First Robotics Programs for Youth Women in Engineering Proactive Network WEPAN K-12 Grant STEM Education Grants InvenTeams (Sponsored by MIT) web.mit.edu/ Legislation STEM Education Caucus stemedcaucus2.org SEC Mathematics American Mathematical Society AMS American Statistical Association ASA Memphis Area Council of Teachers of Mathematics phillip.stalls@musowls.org MAC-O-TOM Math Teacher Mathematics Teacher of Tennessee – Northwest math/mttnw/ MT2-NW National Council of Teachers of Mathematics NCTM Tennessee Association of Mathematics Teacher Educators sites.google.com/site/ tamteorg/ TAMTE Tennessee Mathematics Association for Two Year Colleges TMATYC University of Waterloo (Canada) Center for Education in Mathematics and Computing cemc.math.uwaterloo.ca/ contests/contests.html Policy Battelle Center for Science and Technology Policy BCSTP Science American Assocition of Physics Teachers AAPT American Chemical Society portal.acs.org ACS American Institute of Biological Sciences AIBS American Physical Society APS Association for Women in Science AWIS Biomedical Engineering Society bmes.org BMES National Aeronautics and Space Administration foreducators/best/ NASA National Center for Earth and Space Science Education ncesse.org/ NCESSE National Science Foundation NSF National Science Teachers Association NSTA Professional Organizations in Physics Worldwide The National Academies of Science NAS St. Jude Cure4Kids St Jude Cure4Kids for Teachers Taking Science to School books.nap.edu/catalog.php? record_id=11625 STEM Change the Equation changetheequation.org CSTEM Teacher and Student Support Services CSTEM STEM Education Coalition Teaching Institure for Excellence in STEM TIES Tennessee STEM Connector state-by-state/tennessee TSTEMC Tennessee STEM Innovation Network thetsin.org TSIN Technology CODE code.org/ Computing Research Association CRA Computer Science Education Week Cyber Patriot International Society for Technology in Education ISTE International Technology and Engineering Educators Association ITEEA Technology Student Association TSA The Imagine Cup Try Computing! STEM Opportunities UofM Students UofM Faculty K-12 Students Teachers Useful Links Give to CRISTAL Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .