#http://www.memphis.edu/presweb/leadership/
President's Council - Office of the President - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Office of the President About Mission and Plan Communications Leadership Contact Leadership Team President's Council Key Administrators Board of Visitors Alumni Association Board of Directors President's Staff Related Offices Home Office of the President University Leadership Team President's Council View Operating Principles of the President's Council Karen Weddle-West Provost Phone: 901.678.2119 Fax: 901.678.3643 E-mail: kweddle@memphis.edu Office: 360 Administration Building Office of the Provost Dr. Karen Weddle-West is the chief academic officer of the University. She has comprehensive responsibility for developing and implementing academic policies and priorities and has responsibility for ensuring that the University's teaching, research, and service missions are successfully implemented. She works closely with the deans and directors of the academic areas to ensure that the University recruits and retains high-quality faculty who offer optimal student experiences. Rosie Phillips Bingham Vice President for Student Affairs Phone: 901.678.2114 Fax: 901.678.5206 E-mail: rbingham@memphis.edu Office: 235 Administration Building Division of Student Affairs Dr. Bingham leads the Division of Student Affairs. The division is comprised of Student Development and Student Life. The division's mission, "Students Learning Through Engagement and Involvement," drives the programs and activities that build on the University's academic base. Student Affairs strives to consider all aspects of a student's life at the University, always mindful of the "whole person" and the role the University can play in a student's development as an individual. Tammy Hedges Vice President for External Relations and Executive Director of the UofM Alumni Association Phone: 901.678.2843 Fax: 901.678.3607 E-mail: thedges @memphis.edu Office: 303 Administration Building Alumni Association Communications, Public Relations &amp; Marketing Government Relations Ms. Hedges has responsibility for three departments, including: the Office of Alumni and Constituent Relations, the Office of Communications, Public Relations and Marketing, and the Office of Government Relations. Alumni and Constituent Relations maintains the connection between the University and its alumni and friends, fostering lifelong relationships and involvement through the UofM Alumni Association. Communications, Public Relations and Marketing is responsible for expanding the public's general knowledge and understanding of the University, communicating news and publicizing activities taking place at, or under the auspices of, the UofM. The department is also responsible for the UofM's social media engagement, website maintenance, institutional branding and many of the University's major events. Government Relations maintains relationships with city, county, state and federal legislators for the betterment of the University community through public policy formation, education and engagement. Andy Meyers Interim Vice President for Research Phone: 901.678.2590 Fax: 901.678.4409 E-mail: ameyers@memphis.edu Office: 308 Administration Building Web Andy Meyers is currently Interim Vice President for Research and Executive Director of the UofM Research Foundation. He joined the Department of Psychology here in 1976 and served as Director of the Center for Applied Psychological Research (1985 to 1990) and department chairman (1990 to 2002) before becoming Vice Provost for Research (2003-2013). Dr. Meyers' primary research interests are the assessment, prevention and treatment of problem gambling behavior. He was the winner of the 1995-96 University of Memphis, College of Arts and Sciences Distinguished Research Award and in 2003 was named the college's Meritorious Faculty Award winner. Dr. Meyers has been a Fellow of the American Psychological Association and the Association for Applied Sport Psychology, where he served as President (1998-2001). David Zettergren Vice President for Business and Finance Phone: 901.678.2121 Fax: 901.678.5128 E-mail: dzttrgrn@memphis.edu Office: 367 Administration Building Division of Business and Finance Mr. Zettergren has responsibility for the University's fiscal, human, and plant resources. He ensures that the University's fiscal resources are managed responsibly and appropriately, that the University has a knowledgeable and helpful workforce, and that our faculty, staff and students enjoy facilities that are safe and conducive to learning. He oversees an annual operating budget of more than $300 million and a plant of 202 buildings located on 1170 acres. Bobby Prince Chief Development Officer Phone: 901.678.3951 Fax: 901.678.1699 E-mail: baprince@memphis.edu Office: 323 Administration Building Development Mr. Prince leads the Development Office, which works to advance the mission of the University and enrich its future by securing philanthropic support for academic initiatives university-wide. This is accomplished by fostering donor-centered relationships with alumni, friends, and organizations. The Development Office includes annual giving, major giving, planned giving, corporate and foundation relations, donor relations, and advancement services. Ellen Watson Vice Provost for Information Technology and Chief Information Officer Phone: 901.678.5650 Fax: 901.678.5656 E-mail: eiwatson@memphis.edu Office: 377 Administration Building Information Technology Services Ms. Watson serves as the University's Chief Information Officer and Vice Provost for Information Technology. She has management and leadership responsibilities for academic and administrative computing, networks, and telecommunications. She is responsible for overseeing institution-wide policy decisions governing IT, serves as the institutional data security officer, and leads the development of the annual Strategic Plan for Information Technology. Dr. Jasbir Dhaliwal Vice Provost for Academic Affairs, Chief Innovation Officer and Interim Dean of the Graduate School Phone: 901.678.4653 or 901.678.1596 Fax: 901.678.0378 E-mail: jdhaliwl@memphis.edu FedEx Institute of Technology Graduate School As Chief Innovation Officer of the University , Dr. Dhaliwal leads strategic innovation priorities for the President's Office to modernize the university's academic and research culture. This includes serving as the Executive Director of the FedEx Institute of Technology which, as the front door to the university's research capabilities and infrastructure, promotes interdisciplinary research clusters, corporate engagement and technology commercialization. On the academic side, Dr. Dhaliwal has strategic responsibility for all aspects of the university's portfolio of 114 graduate programs that enroll about 4000 graduate students in studies at the doctoral, masters and graduate certificate levels. As Vice Provost for Academic Affairs he supports the Office of the Provost on key priorities to advance the university's academic mission. Melanie Murry University Counsel Phone: 901.678.2155 Fax: 901.678.3489 E-mail: mmurry@memphis.edu Office: 201 Administration Building Office of Legal Counsel Ms. Murry is responsible for the legal work of the University, which includes a broad array of issues from contracts to employment matters to intellectual property. She is assisted by the employees of the Office of Legal Counsel, which she manages. The mission of the office is to provide timely and competent legal assistance to all areas of the University and to assist the University in accomplishing its mission. Tom Bowen Athletic Director Phone: 901.678.2335 Fax: 901.678.5078 E-mail: tbowen1@memphis.edu Office: 001 Athletic Office Building UofM Athletics Mr. Bowen has the responsibility for oversight of all intercollegiate sports associated with the University. He has responsibility for all on-campus intercollegiate athletic facilities and works with the Liberty Bowl and FedEx Forum. In addition, he has responsibility for negotiating contracts and fund-raising for the division. Charles Burkett Advisor Phone: 901.678.2234 Fax: 901.678.5065 E-mail: cgbrkett@memphis.edu Office: 341 Administration Building Office of the President Charles Burkett earned a Bachelor's of Business Administration from the University of Memphis in 1973. He worked for First Tennessee Bank for 41 years and retired from his position as Head of Banking in December, 2011. Currently, Charles is Chairman of the First Tennessee Foundation. He is a former Chairman of the University of Memphis Board of Visitors and is a current member of the BOV. Charles and his wife Judy chaired the very successful Empowering the Dream Capital Campaign for the University of Memphis. Charles also serves as a board member for the Shelby Farms Park Conservancy and the Mid-South Minority Business Council. He is past Chairman of the Memphis Regional Chamber of Commerce, United Way of the Mid-South and the American Heart Association. R. Brad Martin Special Advisor Martin, retired chairman and CEO of Saks Incorporated, currently chairs his private investment firm RBM Venture Company. A graduate of the university in 1976, Martin served as Student Government President and as a member of the Student Ambassador Board. He has served as Interim President at the UofM, chaired the Board of Visitors and the UofM Foundation Board of Trustees, received the Distinguished Alumni Award, and taught a UofM class in state and local politics. Martin also earned an MBA degree from the Owen Graduate School of Management at Vanderbilt University. He holds the distinction of being the youngest person elected to the Tennessee General Assembly, where he served five terms in the House of Representatives. Today he participates on a variety of corporate, civic and charitable boards, including FedEx, First Horizon National Corporation, Dillard's, and Chesapeake Energy. Leadership Team President's Council Key Administrators Board of Visitors Alumni Association Board of Directors President's Staff Related Offices Dashboard UofM steps towards success Year of Service Initiative Learn how your service hours can provide scholarships for students! President's Blog News, stories, videos and more Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .