#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mis/2015FMIS7160001.pdf
1 Course Syllabus MIS - 7160 - 001 Computer Hardware and System Software Fall 2015 3 Credit Hours (Last updated: 8/22 /2015) Instructor: Dr. Chen Zhang, Associate Professor Time and Room : 5:30 PM - 6:55 P M Monday and Wednesday, FCB 37 3 Phone : 901 - 678 - 5671 E - mail: czhang12@memphis.edu Office: FAB 301 Office Hours: 1 0 :00 A M 11 :00 A M Tuesday 1 : 3 0 P M 3 : 3 0 P M Thursday Course Overview Introduction to the technology of computing; processor operation inc luding fetch/execute, input/output, instruction types, interrupt handling, addressing schemes and multiprocessing; business systems software including operating systems from single - user single - task to multi - user multitask; major current operating systems; enterprise architecture. Pre - Requisite : None Required Texts and Related M aterials : Textbook: The Architecture of Computer Hardware, Systems Software, & Networking: An Information Technology Approach, 4th Edition Irv Englander Publisher: John Wiley & Sons, Inc. ISBN: 9780471715429 Location of Course Materials : Course materials are available online by logging onto eCourseWare at elearn.memphi s.edu. They include lecture slides, handouts, assignments, grades and related links. Course materials are organized into modules based on the topic. 2 Course Objectives : After successfully completing this course, students will be able to: Identify, use, and translate basic number systems Un der stand and explain basic types of data formats Describe the components of a CPU and the fetch - execute instruction cycle Describe how computer memory works Understand and explain how various input and output devices work Describe the f unctions of an op erating system a nd compare various types of operating system Understand the components of mobile operating systems Become familiar with the current tr ends in computer hardware and system software in organizations Understand and evaluate the impact of these trends on organizational performance and society Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overa ll learning objectives for the MS BA degree offered by the Fogelman College ( ent.net/LearningOutcomes/MSBADegreeLearningOutcomes.pdf ) The overa ll learning objectives for the MS BA degree include: Course Methodology Combination of lecture s, in - class hands - on activities, in - class discussions, and case studies. 3 Students are expected to attend classes, actively participate in class discussions and activities, review the course content after class, and complete assignments on - time. Students are str ongly encouraged to contact me to discuss any concerns about this course or seek any additional help with course materials if needed. Student's Expectations: Course materials will be well - organized and you will be engaged in an active and supporting learning environment. I will respond to your emails within 2 business days if not sooner. Submissions will be graded within 4 to 5 business days and your up - to - date grade will be posted on elearn throughout the semester. Grading and Evaluation Criteria Final Course Grades based on participation, pop quizzes, exercises, assignments, exams, and group project. Class performance will be weighted as follows: Component Percent of final grade Participation 10 % P op Q uizzes 10% Ignite Talk 5% Assignments 1 0 % Exam 1 2 5 % Exam 2 2 0 % Group Project 20 % Grades will be assigned using the following percentages: Grade Percent A 90% and above B 80% to 89% C 70% to 79% D 60% to 69% F Below 60% Course Topics Fundamentals of systems architecture Number systems Data formats CPU and memory In - memory computing Input/output Peripheral devices Operating systems Mobile operating systems 4 Server virtualization and c loud computing Internet of T hings List of Formal Assessed Activities Participation You are expected to attend all classes and participate in class discussions/exercises. You are responsible for the material we cover in class if you miss a class. Lecture slides will be posted on the course website. Please note that office hours are not a substitute for class attendance. Participation will be evaluated using the following categories: Good ( 8 % - 10 % o f final grade) Attends every class; participates in class discussions; asks meaningful questions; frequent communication with the instructor Fair ( 5 % 7 % of final grade) Attends most classes, but rarely participates in class discussions or distracts oth ers during class; infrequent communication with the instructor Poor ( 4 % and below of final grade) Attendance is spotty; rarely participates in class discussions or distracts others during class; little communication with the instructor Pop Q uizzes Several un announced quizzes will be given throughout the semester to test yo ur understanding of the topics covered in the le ctures and discussions. When computing the average of your quiz scores, your lowest one will be dr opped. Ignite Talk Given the diverse background , interest, opinion, and experience that students bring into our classroom , each st udent will give one Ignite t alk ( five - minute talk accompanied by 20 slides. Each slide is displayed for 15 seconds, and slides are automatically advanced ) sharing his/her knowledge, expertise, experience , or opinion about a topic related to computer hardware, software, informati on, and information technology . Assignments There will be two assignments. Each assignment carries the same weight and your fi nal assignment score w ill be based on the average of 2 assignments. A ssignments will be submitted through the course website unless specified otherwise. Assignments are to be done individually. Due dates for all assignments will be strictly observed and no la te submission will be accepte d. Turnitin and other tools will be used to de tect plagiarisms . Exams There will be one mid - term exam and one final exam for this course. It will cover lecture material, class discussion, case studies , and textbook reading materials. The exam consists of multiple choice and essay questions . Please see the schedu le for the date s of the exam s . If you know in advance that you will be absent the day of the scheduled exam, you need to make arrangements with me as soon as possible. If you miss an exam because of illness or other unforeseeable emergency (proper documentation required) , you must contact me by email or phone within three days of the scheduled exam date to make arrangement for a makeup exam. Failure to do so will result in a grade of zero for the exam. 5 Projects Groups will consist of 3 - 4 individuals. Each group will identify a topic related to computer hardware and system software s lectures and assigned reading materials. Project deliverables include a presentation and a report at the end of the semester. Detailed requirement will be provided in h andouts. Students are not allowed to use projects done for other classes for this class. Schedule of Activities See course schedule on course website. Final Exam Schedule The final exam for this class will be in the form of a group project presentat ion that will take place on the scheduled exam date as noted on the website . Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email A ccount on a regular basis . You will receive all official course correspondence at this email ac count. It is your responsibility to make sure you are able to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion. If you prefer using your alterna te email address (gmail, yahoo, etc.), you should inform me in an email during the first week of class. Attendance and Participation : This is a standard classroom course. It is important that you consistently attend classes throughout the semester and stay active and engaged in the classroom . Your full engagement in the class begins on th e first day of the semester an d shou ld be maintained until the end of the semester . For students r eceiving federal student loans, any lack of engagement in the course may be treated as non - attendance and potentially impact access to student loans in the future. Students are expected participate in all interactive aspects of the course. You should also regularly communicate with the instructor as part of your overall learning experience, check the course website and email frequently for announcements , and act ively participate in classrooms discussions (both formal and informal). Note that class attendance and participation will contribute to your overall grade in the semester as noted under earlier in this syllabus. Adding/Dropping : If you have questions abo ut adding or dropping classes, please refer to this page on the Registrar's website . Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. Please refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. 6 Note IS considered cheating. Should your professor have evidence that using a Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academ ic Integrity . Note that Turnitin will be used extensively on submitted work, especially research and associated writing. Strong evidence of plagiarism will result in a zero on the submitted assignment. Classroom Behavior: All participants in the course should be considerate of the other particip ants and treat them and their opinions with respect. Use of cell phones or engaging in activities unrelated to class is not allowed in class. Extra Credit: There is no extra credit offered in this course. Your final grade will be com puted based on your work on the assessed activities previously described in this syllabus. Reporting Illness or Absence: Due dates and deadlines have been established and will be followed for each graded course component. act the instructor prior to the deadline to discuss the matter. A deadline extension will be con sidered only if both of the following conditions are met : (1) Extreme and unforeseeable emergency and (2) Instructor contacted prior to the due date. Inclement Weather: In the event that inclement weather requires the cancellation of classes at T he University of Memphis, local radio and television media will be immediately notified. Additionally , The University of Memphis has established an Inclement Weather Hotline at 678 - 0888 as well as Tiger Text (New Window), an emergency alert text messaging s ervice to students, faculty and staff. This optional service is u sed in the event of an on - campus emergency, an unscheduled university closing, or a delay or canc ellation of classes due to, for instance, inclement weather . Syllabus Changes: The instructor reserves the right to make changes as necessary to this syllab us. If changes are necessitated during the semester , the instructor will immediately notify s tudents of such changes both by class email communication and posting both notification and nature o f c hange(s) on the course website . Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance