#http://www.memphis.edu/univcoll/online/startrodponline.php
RODP Online Courses - University College - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University College About Undergraduate Graduate Resources Online Home University College Online RODP Online Courses RODP Online Courses The Regents Online Degree Program (RODP) is a collaborative partnership among all Tennessee Board of Regents (TBR) institutions. This partnership allows institutions to share resources and personnel needed to deliver quality online instruction. When you enroll in RODP courses, you will remain a University of Memphis student and your courses will appear on your transcript as University of Memphis courses. Your class may be instructed by a professor from one of the other partner institutions and you may have classmates enrolled at other partner institutions. Several undergraduate and graduate degree programs are offered through RODP. These fully accredited programs are designed with asynchronous classes so you can complete course work based on deadlines, not assigned class meetings. You may choose to complete your degree entirely online or, with your academic advisor's approval, you may complete some of your courses on-campus. How do I register for an RODP online course? Do I need a permit for an RODP online course? I registered for an RODP online course. Where do I get textbooks? Where and when do I access the RODP online course site? My RODP online course exams require a proctor. How do I take a proctored exam? I have an issue with an RODP online course. What should I do? I would like to dispute/appeal my RODP online course final grade. What should I do? How do I register for an RODP online course? The University of Memphis offers over 500 online courses which can be easily identified by the section number and instructional method in the course schedule. Registration for all online courses is completed through the same process as any other course. Access your my.memphis account and use the student tab to complete registration functions . RODP courses are sections R01, R25, and R50. Ex. BIOL 2010-R01 RODP Instructional Methods Do I need a permit for an RODP online course? First, attempt to register for your courses. You should o nly submit a permit request if you have already tried to register for an RODP online course and received an error message. Our office issues permits for RODP online courses except for graduate level Nursing (NURS), and Education (ASTL, TEAE, or TELC) courses. For contact information to request permits for those courses, please go to the registrar's website. - Request a permit for an RODP course. - Request a permit for COMM 7110 or a PRST course. I registered for an RODP online course. Where do I get textbooks? RODP books can only be purchased through the RODP Virtual Bookstore. At the website, place your cursor over the "Books" link and c lick on the Textbooks &amp; Course Materials link. Then use the the various drop down menus to find your courses and view the required and suggested textbooks. Please be sure to read the return policy and other important notices. The University of Memphis bookstore does not sell RODP books. - Order RODP Books Where and when do I access the RODP online course site? New students should read and complete all sections of the RODP Orientation for Online Students . Then try our RODP Online Readiness Course using the user name and password below. Username: guest Password: guest You will not be able to access courses until the first day of the semester, and be aware some delays may occur. Students adding courses during the late registration period will not be able to access their courses for an additional 24-48 hours after their registration is complete. To access RODP courses (course sections R01, R25, and R50) go to elearn.rodp.org and f ollow the instructions to form your user name and password. You will not use the same username and password that you use at the University of Memphis! If you have technical difficulties accessing your course (logging in, timing out, using your course tools) please call the AskRODP Help Desk at 1-888-223-0023 or go to their website at help.rodp.org (Note: You must be a a registered RODP student to utilize this service.) My RODP online course exams require a proctor. How do I take a proctored exam? Some RODP courses require your midterm and final exam be given to you by a proctor. (someone appointed to supervise students during exams) You are responsible for finding an appropriate proctor, setting an exam appointment, and following all policies at your chosen test location. Only your instructor can approve your choice of proctor. If your RODP course indicates that you will have a proctored midterm and/or final exam, please read our entire proctor policy which includes instructions for scheduling an exam appointment . I have an issue with an RODP online course. What should I do? You should first attempt to resolve course issues by communicating with the instructor. If you are not able to reach a resolution, you can contact us for assistance. Please send an email that includes your full name, U-Number, the course ID (ex. BIOL 1010-R50) the instructors name, and details of the problem you are having. Include information about your attempts to resolve the situation yourself. We will contact you as soon as we have information to share with you. I would like to dispute/appeal my final grade in my RODP online course. What should I do? If you wish to dispute an RODP course final grade, first discuss your concerns with the instructor. If you have unsuccessfully tried to contact the instructor, please send an email that includes your full name, U-Number, the course ID (ex. BIOL 1010-R50) the instructors name, and your reason for contacting the instructor. If you are not able to reach a resolution, and wish to pursue a grade appeal, please review grade appeal procedures for undergraduate students or for graduate students . Appeals must be based on evidence that you performed at a level sufficient to warrant a different grade, not circumstances that would grant a different grade. If you wish to file an appeal and your petition meets the requirements stated in the UofM appeal policies linked above; please send an email that includes your full name, U-Number, the course ID (ex. BIOL 1010-R50) the instructors name, and your formal grade appeal statement. We will contact you as soon as we have information to share with you. Request More Information Complete our online form for additional degree information. Online Appointments Academic Advising is available in-person, by phone and web conference. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .