#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/pdfs/community-certificate.pdf
1 Revised 08/13 /12 Updated 0 8 / 26 /14 Community College Teaching & Leadership Certificate PROGRAM INFORMATION Department of Leadership Higher and Adult Education UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS COLLEGE OF EDUCATION, HEALTH AND HUMAN SCIENCES MEMPHIS, TN 38152 - 6172 PHONE: (901) 678 - 2775 FAX: (901) 678 - 1191 VISIT OUR WEB SITE: - certificate.htm A Tennessee Board of Regents Institution An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action University 2 Revised 08/13 /12 Updated 0 8 / 26 /14 Introduction The Community College Teaching and Leadership certificate is designed for individuals interested in either a teaching or an administrative position at a community college. Consisting of 18 hours of coursework, this program can be applied to or taken simult aneously with a Master of Science degree in Leadership or a Doctor of Education in Higher and Adult Education, or a related field. Students not pursuing a degree should apply for admission to the Graduate School as certificate seeking. Certificate student s must also apply to the department f or acceptance into this program . For students who have earned a graduate degree or who have taken graduate courses, a minimum cumulative graduate grade point average of 3.0 is required for acceptance in to the c ertifica te program . Careers & Employment Opportunities Potential careers are available as teachers or administrators in community college settings. Administrative positions may include: student services, academic affairs, business affairs, admissions, registrar, advising, etc. Teaching positions will depend upon the discipline in which you are qualified to teach (English, Math, Nursing, etc). Course Requirements This certificate requires a minimum of 15 to 18 credit hours, including an internship. The following courses are required for the certificate: HIAD 7411 - 8411 Community Colleges HIAD 7511 - 8511 Administration/Governance in Community Colleges HIAD 7541 - 8541 Issues and Trends in Teaching Adults HIAD 8415 IT Trends and Issues in Higher Education HIAD 7060 - 8060 Internship Higher and Adult Education** LEAD 7500 - 8500 Adult Learning and Leadership **May be waived for those with broad experience in community college teaching or administration. The Department of Leadership as the Source for This Certificate Professors in the Higher and Adult Education program of the Department of L eadership are qualified to teach cou r ses leading to the certificate because they have doctorates in this field of study as well as experience in higher education administration at the institution, state, and system levels. They are active 3 Revised 08/13 /12 Updated 0 8 / 26 /14 researchers and hold leadership roles in state and national organizations. They also work collaboratively with regional community colleges . Additionally, t he Center for the Study of Higher Education (which is associated with the Department of Leadership) administers the Community College Student Experience s Questionnaire (CCSEQ) and mai ntains the data base containing years of research with the instrument. Wha t the Faculty Do for This Certificate Faculty members work with individual students to identify personal interests and career goals as well as providi ng advice on ways of achieving these goals. They supervise the certificate program of each student, provide program leadership, and maintain relationships with key constituents. They are active in formative and summative evaluation processes to guarantee t integrity and currency. Graduate School Admission Procedures To be admitted to the certificate program, each student must be enrolled in a graduate program in Higher and Adult Education or a related field or be admitted by the Graduate School as a certificate seeking student. Students who are already admitted to a graduate degree program should contact Dr. Jeffery Wilson at jlwlson4@memphis.edu or 901 - 678 - 3428 . Non - degree seeking students who are pursuing the certificate only must submit the following to the Graduate School: 1. An application to the Graduate School . Make sure you n ote that you are pursuing the Certificate in Community College Teaching and Leadership on your application. 2. The GRE is not required for certificate students who are only seeking the certificate. However, if you have taken the GRE, please submit your sc ores. 3. Official transcripts of any prior undergraduate and graduate courses. Department of Leadership Admission Procedures HIAD faculty review applications three times a year; a complete application packet must be submitted by June 1 (for the fall term), November 1 (for the spring term), and April 1 ( for the summer and fall terms) to be considered for admission. The following items must be submitted to the departme nt by the stated deadlines (in addition to the documents submitted to Graduate Admissions) : 4 Revised 08/13 /12 Updated 0 8 / 26 /14 1. Thre e letters of recommendation (at least one letter from a professor regarding your academic ability) . 2. A current resume. 3. A statement of goals describi ng your reasons for wishing to pursue the graduate certificate in Community College Teaching and Leadership and how the program corresponds with prior experience and anticipated career plans. Sen d requested d ocuments to : The University of Memphis Department of Leadership - Higher & Adult Education Attention: HIAD Admissions Committee Browning Hall, Room 308 Memphis, TN 38152 OR email: hiad@memphis.edu If you have questions about the program, please contact: Dr. Jeffery Wilson at jlwlson4@memphis.edu or 901 - 678 - 3428 .