#http://www.memphis.edu/drs/career.php
Disability Resources for Students - Disability Resources for Students - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Disability Resources for Students About Access Accommodations Technology Policies Career Programs Faculty Home Disability Resources for Students Disability Resources for Students Career Services Programs Disability Resources for Students (DRS) partners with Career Services to assist students with career development and planning and to equip students with the necessary skills to become successful internship or job search candidates. Career Services is for all University of Memphis students and alumni. Career Services provides assistance with resume writing, interview skills, and searching for internships and jobs. The Career Services office is located at 400 Wilder Tower. Their office hours are Monday through Friday 8:00 am – 4:30 pm. Getting Started : FOCUS 2 Online Career Guidance System FOCUS 2 allows you to complete a Career Self-Assessment Module (Work Interests, Personality, Skills, Values, and Leisure Interest inventories) and utilize many other career planning tools. To create a free FOCUS 2 account, please visit NOTE: To complete your registration, you will need an access code. The access code is the word tiger in all lowercase letters. Career Preparation and Job/Internship Search: TigerLink The TigerLink system provides you with access to many tools to enhance your career preparation. A few of these tools include: Resume and cover letter samples, a resume and cover letter builder, and the ability to request online resume and cover letter Online practice interviews Job and Internship Listings Career Fair Information Online appointment scheduling Currently enrolled students login to TigerLink with their MyMemphis username and password. To login to TigerLink, visit . If you are an alumni, please send an email to careerservices@memphis.edu to request that an alumni TigerLink account be created for you. If you already have an alumni account, visit the alumni login page at . Individual Assistance : Career Advising To schedule an appointment, please call the Career Services main office at 901.678.2239. You may also schedule an appointment via the "Request an Appointment" feature in TigerLink. Available appointment types include: Choosing/Using your Major Developing an Individual Career Plan Resume Assistance Interview Preparation Job Search Strategies Going to Graduate/Professional School DRS Career Programs Career Tracks : A program for sophomores and juniors that seeks to assist students with career planning, career competencies, goal setting and decision making through academic tracking, career assessments and counseling. F irst HIRES (Helping Individuals Recognize Employment Skills) : A jobs program for students with disabilities that have never held a paying job. Developed in collaboration with Residence Life, the First HIRES program will not only provide our students with disabilities with strong transferable skills and enhance their resumes, but also help them get better connected to the University of Memphis. Students in the First HIRES Program work as desk assistants in our on-campus residence halls. This position is customer service-oriented. Desk assistants help residents, answer telephones, and monitor activity in the lobby of the building. They also communicate information to other staff members as necessary. Workforce Recruitment Program (WRP) : A recruitment and referral program that connects federal and private sector employers nationwide with highly motivated junior, senior and recent college graduates with disabilities who are eager to prove their abilities in the workplace through internships and/or jobs. Career Mentoring Program : A program for students interested in gaining more information about what it is like to work "in the real world" with a disability. Students or job seekers who have a disability are paired with a career mentor who also has a disability; the experience could include job shadowing, identifying necessary job skills, and learning about possible internships or employment prospects. Other Career Resources Career Opportunities for Students with Disabilities (COSD) [ ] : An exciting tool for both employers and students. Career Gateway is the first nationwide online job posting and college student resume database system. It is a primary tool for employers to reach this population while students use this as a tool for identifying employment opportunities and employers who are committed to including disability as part of their diversity efforts. For employers, COSD Career Gateway is a vital pipeline for their future workforce. For students, COSD Career Gateway is the closest link with employers specifically seeking them. There is no charge for students to register or for employers to post available jobs, internships and/or co-op opportunities. Contact DRS DRS Announcements Student and Faculty Awards Thanks to Our Volunteer Note-takers! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .