#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT2820M50.pdf
Course Syllabus MGMT 2820 M50 – Intro to Ent repreneurship Fall 2015 Online, 3.0 Credit Hours Last updated: 8/20 /2015 Instructor: Nicole Heckman Phone: 901.277.2885 Email: nheckman@memphis.edu Email2: nicole@littlebirdinnovation.com LinkedIn: URL: Office Hours: As our class is online I will not have set office hours. However, you can always contact me via email using the address above. I will respond within 24 -48 hours unless it is a weekend, in which case it may take longer. Phone/Skype/Google Hangout calls can also be arranged. Send me an email with the topic and your preferred time to meet. Tuesday and Thursday from 6-8pm CT is best. I will confirm the appointment via email. Course Overview: This course provides an overview of the essentials of Ent repreneurship. Pre -Requisites/Co -Requisites: There are no course pre -requisites to enrolling in this course. However, the student should have a good grasp of basic mathematics and applied writing skills. In general, it is assumed that all students who are registering f or Fogelman College classes have successfully completed any pre -requisites or are enrolled currently in any co -requisites associated with this course. Required Texts (and Related Materials): What I Wish I Knew When I Was 20 , by Tina Seelig Running Lean, Iterate From Plan A to a Plan That Works, by Ash Maurya It is recommended (but not required) that students have access (paper or web) to at least one periodical that includes entrepreneur news, such as Entrepreneur or Inc. Magazine. Throughout the course, we will also be viewing a number of case studies and videos for which access information will be provided. Location of Course Materials: All course materials (lectures, discussion topics, news, etc.) are located on the eCourseware website . !! Course Objectives: By successfully completing this course, students will be able to: • Develop your own entrepreneurial venture from concept to launch – focusing on a few key points of the process • Utilize the resources available both wit hin the university and in Memphis to help build and sustain your ventures • Assess your entrepreneurial competencies and identify areas in which further development may be needed • Recognize how to eliminate roadblocks to creativity and effectively challenge and transform the status quo both personally and in organizational structures Course Methodology This is an online course, so all associated course materials (lectures, discussion topics, news, etc.) are locat ed on the eCourseware website. The course will be composed primarily of readings and videos, along with assignment s due at the end of each week. The largest assig nment is a team -based project where students will d evelop a business idea through the course of the semester, culminating in a final pitch. Students are also expected to participate in discussions by submitting journal entries , which are reflections on the topics covered that week. Professor’s Expectations of Students: One of my favorite quotes from Tina Seelig's book, which we will be using for this class, is "never miss an opportunity to be fabulous." We all have the capacity to be fabulous in our own way and this is what I expect from you. At a minimum, this includes creating a positive, supportive environmen t for learning by staying engaged in the course, reading/watching all content materials, actively participating in all online discussions, and giving your best to your team. This is a class where what you get out of it is what you put into it. Student's Ex pectations of Professor: In my role as your instructor, there are certain things you can expect from me including: well -organized and engaging learning experience, response to questions and emails within two (2) business days, and feedback on all work subm itted within 5 calendar days. Grading and Evaluation Criteria Over the semester, you will have a variety of opportunities to earn points towards your final (overall) letter grade in this course. This section of the syllabus describes the assessed work you will be doing and how overall (final) letter grades will be computed. Final Course Grades Point Range Assigned Grade 920-1,000 Points A 840-910 Points B 750-830 Points C 650-740 Points D Under 650 Points F Your overall grade for the semester is based on how well you perform on a mixture of formal activitie s including discussions, assign ments and a group project. A detailed description of each of the assessed activities can be found after the scoring summary table below. Summary of Graded Activities Points earned on the assessed activities will be distributed as follows: Deliverable Total Points Journal/Discussion Entries (15 @ 10 pts each) 150 Written Assignments (2 @ 100 pts each) 200 Interview an Entrepreneur (2@ 50 pts each) 100 Attend an Entrepreneurial Event 50 Customer Discovery / Research 200 Final Group Project & Pitch Presentation 300 Total 1,000 pts Course Format All course materials will be posted under the "Content" tab in ecourseware. 1) Readings/videos/presentations - Each module contains material to watch or read about being an entrepreneur and the Lean Start -up methodology for developing a business idea, as well as things you should consider before starting a business. Given this is an online course; I will primarily use video to make the content as engaging as possible. 2) Journal entries/discussions – Since we do not meet in person, we will use online discussions to further the understanding of course materials. In conjunction with eve ry module, you are expected to post a journal entry reflecting on the materials in that module or to contribute to a discussion. You will need to read or watch all of the materials in a module in order to fully participate. These posts also allow you to c apture your thoughts on how your perspective on entrepreneurship is changing throughout the course. 3) Assignments - A handful of assignments will be given in order to apply learnings from the course materials. This includes interviewing two entrepreneurs and going to an entrepreneurial event. We typically learn the most from what we do, not what we read so these activities are meant to be experiential and allow you to put entrepreneurial principles into practi ce. 3) Group Project – This is the largest si ngle part of the course and entails working with 4 -5 classmates on a new business idea. Again, we learn by doing and this is all about doing! You will submit several assignments along the way to demonstrate your progress and the project will culminate in a pitch presentation. Course Topics Module 1 : What is an Entrepreneur? What are the types? (8/ 24-8/29 ) Learning Objectives: • What is an entrepreneur • What are the most common skills & attributes • What motivates an entrepreneur and why money isn’t the top priority Assignments • Bio & why are you here? Discussions Due 8/29 /15 • $5 Start -Up Discussions Due 9/2 /15 • Two entrepreneur interviews Discussions Due 11/21 /15 • Entre. Event Discussions Due 11/21 /15 Module 2: Don’t Find an Idea, Find a Problem . And Make it a Problem Worth Solving. (8/30 -9/5 ) Learning Objectives: • The importance of solving a real problem • How to find a problem worth solving • What is social entrepreneurship & why is it important • Team: get to know the members of your team for class project • Team: identify problem your team will address with a new solution Assignments • Journal entry Discussions Due 9/05 /15 • Problem your team will solve with assessment of frequency, density & pain Dropbox Due 9/11/15 Module 3: Why Failure is Good, Following your passion & The Lean Start -up Approach (9/6 -9/12 ) Learning Objectives: • Why failure can be a good thing • Personal reflection on failures and risk tolerances • What does it mean to follow your passion • What is Lean Start -up and why do we use it Assignments • Failure resume Dropbox Due 9/12 /15 • Your risk profile Discussions Due 9/12 /15 Module 4: Brainstorming & Types of Businesses (9/13 -9/19 ) Learning Objectives: • How to brainstorm new ideas • Team: brainstorm solution ideas and identify top solution • Different type of enterprises Assignments • Journal entry Discussions Due 9/19 /15 • Brainstorm with team and identify your top solution Dropbox Due 9/ 19/15 Module 5: Business Model Canvas & The Memphis Entrepreneur Ecosystem (9/20 -9/26 ) Learning Objectives: • What is the business model canvas (BMC) and how is it used • Team: create a business model canvas for your idea • What exactly is an accelerator Assignments • Journal entry Discussions Due 9/26 /15 • Entrepreneurial resources available in Memphis • Completed Business Model Canvas (BMC) Dropbox Due 9/26 /15 Module 6: Evaluating Market Forces & Business Model Risk (9/27 -10/3 ) Learning Objectives: • How do you evaluate your canvas and assess risk • Team: add market forces and identify risks with your BMC • Life skills of an effective entrepreneur !Assignments • Journal entry Discussions Due 10/3 /15 • Updated BMC & Assessment Dropbox Due 10/3 /15 Module 7: Preparing to Interview Potential Customers (10/4 -10/10 Fall Break 10/10 -10/13 ) Learning Objectives: • What is customer development and why is it important !• Journal entry Discussions Due 10/ 09/15 • Cust. Dev. Plan Dropbox Due 10/ 09/15 Module 8: Testing the Problem (10/11 -10/17 ) Learning Objectives: • How do you ‘test the problem’ & why is it important • Team: create materials to support customer development • Challenges (and opportunities!) for women and minority entrepreneurs • Journal entry Discussions Due 10/17 /15 • Customer Dev. Materials Dropbox Due 10/17 /15 Module 9: Initial Interviews & Founder Dilemmas (10/18 -10/24 ) Learning Objectives: • Team: conduct your first interviews and identify what you learned • Founder dilemmas – should you have a co -founder • What is an operating agreement and why do you need it • Journal entry Discussions Due 10/24 /15 • First 25 Interviews & Learnings Dropbox Due 10/24 /15 Module 10: Preparing to Test the Solution (10/25 -10/31 ) Learning Objectives: • What does ‘test the solution’ mean and how is it different from ‘testing the problem’ • Team: prepare materials to ‘test the solution’ • Looking ahead – how do you sell your idea and what makes a good pitch • How does venture capital work • Journal entry Discussions Due 10/31 /15 • Materials to Test the Solution Dropbox Due 10/31/ 15 Module 11: Testing the Solution (11/1 -11/7 ) Learning Objectives: • Team: conduct second round of interviews and identify learnings • What is a minimum viable product • What is crowd funding and how does it work • Journal entry Discussions Due 11 /07 /15 • Second 25 Interviews & Learnings Dropbox Due 11/07 /15 Module 12: Customer Acquisition (11/8 -11/14 ) Learning Objectives: • Team: revise Business Model Canvas and begin building pitch • What is customer acquisition • What is Conscious Capitalism, why is it important and how does it fit with social entrepreneurship • Journal entry Discussions Due 11/14 /15 • Revised BMC & Customer Acquisition Plan Dropbox Due 11/14 /15 Module 13: (11/15 -11/21 ) Learning Objectives: • Team: finish initial pitch • When should you incorporate • Understanding the d ifferent entity types • Considerations of for profit versus non profit entities • What is a B Corp • Journal entry Discussions Due 11/21 /15 • Initial Pitch Dropbox Due 11/21 /15 Module 14: (11/22 -11/28 , Thanksgiving Break 11/25 -11/29 ) Learning Objectives: • Team: revise pitch • Knowing what to do yourself and what to delegate or outsource Assignments • Revised Pitch Dropbox Due 12/2/15 Module 15: (11/29 -12/5 ) Learning Objectives: • Team: revise pitch • Journal entry Discussions Due 12/5 /15 Module 16 : (EXAMS ) Learning Objectives: • Team: submit final pitch and peer reviews Assignments • Final Pitch Due! Dropbox 12/10/15 • Team Assessments Dropbox 12/10/15 List of Formal Assessed Activities For a complete description of the assessed activities for the semester, please refer to the List of Assessed Activities page that can be found in the online course area under “Getting Started”. Schedule of Ac tivities For the schedule of readings, activities, and due dates for assignments, please refer to the Schedule of Semester Activities that can be found in the online course area under “Getting Started”. Final Exam Schedule The final exam for this class will be in the form of a group project presentation that must be submitted to Dropbox in ecourseware by 5pm CT on 12/10/15. Course Policies E-MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all official course correspondence at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not regularly checking your email, having a “full mailbox” condition, etc.) is the student’s responsibility. If you prefer getting email from an alternate email address (gmail, yahoo, etc.) and do not check campus email, y ou should make sure all campus email is forwarded to that alternate email address. This can be done via the campus IAM website (New Window) . Attendance: This is an online course so the best measure of attendance is your participation in discussions and journal entries. It is important that you stay active and engaged all semester by watching or reading the posted materials and offering your reflections thr ough the "discussions" tab in ecourseware. You will also need to actively work with your group to complete the group project. Your full engagement in the class begins on the first day of the semester and should be maintained until the last assignment is s ubmitted. For students receiving federal student loans, any lack of engagement in the course may be treated as non -attendance and potentially impact access to student loans in the future. Note that class attendance will contribute to your overall grade i n the semester as noted under “Grading” in this syllabus. Adding / Dropping: If you have questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to this page on the Registrar's website (New Window ). Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. Note that using a “Solutio ns Manual” is considered cheating. Should your professor have evidence that using a “Solutions Manual” has occurred, he/she may take steps as described on the campus’ Office of Student Conduct website (New Window) . If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity (New Window) . Note that Turnitin will be used extensively on submitted work, especially research and associated writing. Strong evidence of plagiarism will result in a zero on the submitted assignment with a potential opportunity to resubmit in a corrected form for partial credit. Participation: To be successful in this course as a student, you must stay active and involved throughout the entire semester. Students are expected participate in all interactive aspects of the course. You should a lso regularly communicate with the instructor as part of your overall learning experience, check into the course frequently for announcements (usually on the course home page), and actively participate in classrooms discussions (both formal and informal). Note that your overall level of participation will contribute to your final grade in the semester as noted under “Grading” in this syllabus. Classroom or Online Behavior: All participants in the course should be considerate of the other course participants and treat them (as well as their opinions) with respect. The class will operate under the assumption that any and all feedback offered is positive in nature and that th e intentions of the person(s) providing feedback are strictly honorable. Insensitivity in this area will not be tolerated. If you have any questions about online communication, you should review the Fogelman College's Netiquette website (New Window) . Late Assi gnments: Assignments and projects may be submitted anytime up to and including the date due. Please review all information in this syllabus and related “Course Activity Summary / Schedule” for all due dates for formally assessed work. If your work is not submitted on time, the instructor reserves the option to deduct up to 20% of the grade value for tardiness depending upon the circumstances and appropriate communication between the student and the instructor. Extra Credit: There is no extra credit offered in this course. Your final grade will be computed based on your work on the formal/assessed activities previously described in this syllabus. Reporting Illness or Absence: Due dates and deadlines have been established for each graded assignment. In this co urse, deadlines are taken very seriously. Please do not wait until the last day to submit assignments . If an emergency should arise, it is the student’s responsibility to contact the instructor prior to the deadline to discuss the matter. A deadline extension will be considered only if all of the followin g conditions are met: (1) Extreme emergency and (2) Instructor contacted prior to the due date. Inclement Weather: In the event that inclement weather requires the cancellation of classes at The Univ ersity of Memphis, local radio and television media will be immediately notified. Additionally, The University of Memphis has established an Inclement Weather Hotline at 678 -0888 as well as TigerText (New Window) , an emergency alert text messaging service to students, faculty and staff. This optional service is used in the event of an on -campus emergency, an unscheduled university closing, or a delay or cancellation of classes due to, for instance, inclement weather. Click Here (New Window) for information on TigerText. Syllabus Changes: The instructor reserves the right to make changes as necessary to this syllab us. If changes are necessitated during the term of the course, the instructor will immediately notify students of such changes both by individual email communication and posting both notification and nature of change(s) on the course bulletin board. Studen t Services Please access the FCBE Student Services (New Window) page for information about: • Students with Disabilities • Tutoring and other Academic Assistance • Advising Services for Fogelman Students • Technical Assistance !