#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mis/2015FMIS7605001.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus MIS 7605 Business Database Systems Fall Semester, 2015 7:10 pm - 8:35 pm (Tuesday, Thursday) 3.0 Credit Hours (Last updated: 7 / 3 0/ 2015) Instructor: Shaji Thomas , MS, MBA Phone1: 901. 832.7099 Phone2: E - mail: skthomas@memphis.edu E - mail2: Office: Twitter: SkypeID: LinkedIn: URL: Office Hours: T he standard means for communicating with the instructor is via email throughout the semester. As we will be meeting two evenings each week, the best way to connect with me for general conversation is before/during/after the standard class time. (I will be happy to stay after class for questions.) . Course Overview : This course is a broad survey of all major topics in the database field, from an applied perspective. The initial emphasis will be on relational database concepts, logical design, physical design, and SQL access. Supporting topics will include the entity - relationship model, database ad ministration, data dictionaries and catalogs, backup and recovery, concurrency control, and database security. Contemporary topics such as distributed database procedures, client/server database environment, data warehousing, and data mining are included i n the course. Procedures for determining and implementing appropriate database design techniques are included in the course. An integral part of this course will include exposure to, and applications relating to, the Oracle DBMS and Microsoft SQL Server in a client - server environment. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: There are no course pre - requisites to enrolling in this course. However, the student should have a good grasp of basic mathematics and applied writing skills. In general, it is assumed that all students who are registering for Fogelman College classes have successfully p. 2 completed any pre - requisites or are enrolled currently in any co - requisites associated with this course. Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : Modern Database Management, 11th Edition, Jeffrey A. Hoffer, V. Ramesh, Heikki Topi ISBN - - 13: 9780132662253, 2013, Prentice Hall Recommended Texts (and Related Materials) : It is recommended (but not required) that students have a cces s to at least one periodical that includes business news ( Commercial Appeal, Wall Street Journal, Bloomberg , etc. ) Location of Course Materials : This is a fully online course and all course materials (lectures, discussion topics, news, etc.) are located on the eCourseware web site . Course Objectives : This course is a broad survey of all major topics in the database field, from an applied perspective. The initial emphasis will be on relational database concepts, logical design, physical design, and SQL access. Supporting topics will include the entity - relationship model, database administration, data dict ionaries and catalogs, backup and recovery, concurrency control, and database security. Contemporary topics such as distributed database procedures, client/server database environment, data warehousing, and data mining are included in the course. Procedure s for determining and implementing appropriate database design techniques are included in the course. An integral part of this course will include exposure to, and applications relating to, the Oracle DBMS and Microsoft SQL Server in a client - server enviro nment. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with th e overall learning objectives as a student in the M S BA program : Course Methodology This is a lecture course and much of the learning will be in the class room lectures, assignments and group project . Th e class will meet at specific times and the students are expected to adjust their schedule to attend the lecture sections. of Students : In general, you should assist the instructor in creating a positive, supportive environment for learning by staying engaged in the course and actively participating in all discussions. You are expected to attend all classes and participate in class discussions/exercises. Class p. 3 attendance can affect participation points. You are responsible for the material we cover in class. If you do have a legitimate and documentable reason for missing class, if possible, please notify me before class. Lecture slides will be posted on the class website, however, you are responsible for acquiring any other notes from classmates. Please note that office hour s are not a substitute for class attendance. Student's Expectations of the Professor : In my role as your instructor, there are certain things you can expect from me including: well - organized and engaging learning experience, r esponse to emails within two ( 2) business days, and feedba ck on all work submitted within 7 - 10 calendar days. Grading and Evaluation Criteria Over the semester, you will have a variety of opportunities to earn points towards your final (overall) letter grade in this course. This secti on of the syllabus describes the assessed work you will be doing and how overall (final) letter grades will be computed. Final Course Grades Final course grades are earned according to the following table : Point Range Assigned Grad e 90% and above A 80% to 89% B 70% to 79% C 60% to 69% D Below 60% F Your overall grade for the semester is based on how well you perform on a mixture of formal activities including assignments, exams, group project and class participation. A det ailed description of each of the assessed activities can be found after the scoring summary table below. p. 4 Summary of Graded Activities Class performance will be evaluated differently if you are enrolled in 7605 or in 8605. Class performance will be evaluated as follows: Component 7605 8605 Assignments 2 00 pts 2 0 0 pts Exam 1 100 pts 100 pts Exam 2 1 5 0 pts 1 5 0 pts Group project 2 00 pts * Participation 5 0 pts 5 0 pts A r ti c le s u mm a ri e s (4) * 1 0 0 pts ( 2 5*4) Presentation and report on emerging tech/issues * 1 5 0 pts Article search * 50 pts Total possible max points 7 00 pts 8 00 pts Assignments There will be about 4 assignments during the semester. Assignments are to be done individually. Feel free to discuss general concepts with each other. However, the specifics of the assignment should not be discussed. Assignments allow me to evaluate your u nderstanding of the concepts we discuss. Assignments are due by the beginning of class on the day that they are due. If an assignment is turned in late, a 20% penalty per calendar day will be assessed. Group Project (7605 Only) A major component of this class is a group project (groups will be 2 - 3 people in size). Please see the project guidelines for more details. p. 5 Participation Participation will be evaluated using the following (rough) categories: Good ( 3 5 - 5 0pts) o Attends class; participates in cla ss discussions; asks meaningful questions Fair ( 2 0 - 3 4 pts) o Attends class, but rarely participates in class discussions or is distracted during class with other material Poor (below 1 9 pts) o Attendance is spotty; mixed participation You are expected to attend all classes and participate in class discussions/exercises. Class attendance can affect participation points. You are responsible for the material we cover in class. If you do have a legitimate and documentable reason for missing class, if possible, please notify me before class. Lecture slides will be posted on the class website, however, you are responsible for acquiring any other notes from classmates. Please note that office hours are not a substitute for class attendance. Exams There are two tests during the semester. Exams will be taken in - class. Due to the nature of the material covered in this class, exams will primarily be short essay questions and/or work - out problems that you provide solutions for. Please see the sch edule for the dates of the exams. Make - up exams are given only under such situations in which you can provide a documentable written justification , but please do not abuse this privilege. No makeup exams or extra credit assignments will be given to increas The final exam will be conducted on the scheduled day during the final week. Please do not plan on or commit to anything for the test day as no make - up or early test will be given. You can check the exact date from the university cal endar based on the class meeting time. "Incomplete" final grades A final grade of "I" will be awarded only in the event of unforeseen, non - preventable circumstances. Personal plans (e.g., weddings, airplane trips) do not constitute "unforeseen, non - preventable" circumstances. Documentation must be provided to substantiate the "I" grade. p. 6 Doctoral Components (8605 Only) There is an additional doctoral component for those who are enrolled in 8605 which includes article summaries, thought papers, and an article search. You will be given a separate reading list and more details about these assignments. Course Topics : Planned topics include: Database environments and the development process Modeling Data in the Organization Entity - Relationship Models Entities, Attributes and Relationships Advanced E - R concepts Database Design Logical Design Relational Model Normalization Overview of physical database design and performance SQL & Advanced SQL DML DDL Overview of Additional Prevalent Topics Database Application Development Data Warehousing Data Quality, Data Integration, Database Administration, Object - relational mapping, Business Intelligence Database Tools: SQL Server List of Formal Assessed Activities For a complete description of the assessed activities for the semester, please refer to the Schedule of Activities For a complete semester schedule of readings, activities, and due dates for assi gnments , please refer to the that can be found in the online course area under Final Exam Schedule The final exam for this class will be scheduled according to the academic calendar website . p. 7 Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all o fficial course correspondence at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not regularly responsibility. Attendance: You are expected to attend all classes and participate in class discussions/exercises. Class attendance can affect participation points. Thus, formal attendance will be taken every day . You are expected to stay active and engaged throughout the academic term and keep up wi th the schedule of activities. Your full engagement in the class begins on the first day of the semester and should be maintained until the final exam . For students recei ving federal student loans, any lack of engagement in the course may be treated as non - attend ance and potentially impact access to student loans in the future. Adding / Dropping : I f you have questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to th is page on the . Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Stud ent Handbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. Note that using a Solutions Manual is considered cheating. Should your professor have evidence that using a Solutions Manual has occurred, he/she may take steps Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Participation: To be successful in this course as a student, you must stay active and involved throughout the entire semester. Students are expected participate in all interactive aspects of the course. You should also regularly communicate with the instructor as part of your overall learning experience, check into the course frequently for announcements (usually on the course home page), and actively participate in threaded discussion events (both formal and informal). You should plan on logging into the course at least three times each week. Classroom or Online Behavior: All participants in the course should be considerate of the other course partici pants and treat them (as well as their opinions) with respect. The class will operate under the assumption that any and all feedback offered is positive in nature and that the intentions of the person(s) providing feedback are strictly honorable. Insensiti vity in this area will not be tolerated. If you have any questions about online communication, you should review the Fogelman College's Netiquette website . p. 8 Late Assignments: A ss ignments and projects may be submitted anytime up to and includi ng the date due. / formally assessed work . If your work is not submitted on time, the instructor reserves the option to deduct up to 20% of the grade value for tardiness depending upon the circumstances and appropriate communication between the student and the instructor. Extra Credit: There is no extra credit offered in this cour se. Your final grade will be computed based on your work on the formal/assessed activities previously described in this syllabus. Reporting Illness or Absence: Due dates and deadlines have been established for each graded assignment. In this course, deadlines are taken very seriously. Please do not wait until the last day to submit assignments or to take quizzes and exams. I responsibility to contact the instructor prior to the deadline to discuss the matter. A deadline extension will be considered only if all of the following conditions are met: (1 ) Extreme emergency and (2) Instructor contacted prior to the due date . Inclement Weather: In the event that inclement weather requires the cancellation of classes at T he University of Memphis, local radio and television media will be immedi ately notified. Additionally, T he Universi ty of Memphis has established an I nclement Weather Hotline at 678 - 0888 as well as TigerText , an emergency alert text messaging service to students, faculty and staff. This optional service is used in the event of an on - campus emergency, an unscheduled university closing, or a delay or cancellation of classes due to, for instance, inclement weather . Click Here for information on TigerT ext. Syllabus Changes: The instructor reserves the right to make changes as necessary to this syllabus. If changes are necessitated during the term of the course, the instructor will immediately notify students of such changes both by individual email comm unication and posting both notification and nature of change(s) on the course bulletin board. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance