#http://www.memphis.edu/academics/
UofM Academics - Academics - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UofM Academics Home Academics Academics Welcome Academic Resources Colleges and Schools Courses / Class Offerings Undergraduate Graduate Honors Program Online Programs Apply Now Degrees Academics Overview What happens when you take students with diverse talents and backgrounds and put them together with internationally known faculty? Something pretty amazing comes together. It's what you find at the University of Memphis. Here, we're recognized the nation over for our academic and research programs. But what matters most to our students are the more than 254 areas of study to explore. Students come here from all over the world to receive bachelor's, master's, professional and doctoral degrees. They come here to do, to create, to learn, to grow. To improve the world. That's what Memphis does. Our beautiful campus is home to the FedEx Institute of Technology , where world renowned researchers solve complex problems affecting society, and the Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management , created by the late founder of Holiday Inns. Pre-professional training is available for students planning to enter dentistry, medicine, optometry, pharmacy, physical therapy or veterinary medicine. The University proudly offers Air Force, Army and Navy ROTC programs. Making our students' lives easier is important, so we offer convenient high caliber degree programs entirely online through our Regents Online Degree Program , including the Bachelor of Professional Studies in information technology or organizational leadership and the Bachelor of Interdisciplinary Studies in general studies, liberal studies or university studies. Honors Program We are home to the largest honors program in the state of Tennessee. Top academic performers with big ambitions find a rich, diverse experience through our Helen Hardin Honors Program . We combine the best of a small liberal arts school with the wide-ranging opportunities of a large, nationally recognized research university. While all of the 1,300 honors students excel academically, they also are part of a dynamic and diverse student body of more than 20,000 students. The program has produced Goldwater Scholars, Truman Scholars and Fulbright Scholars. Many departments within specific academic programs offer their own honors programs, so there are many ways for students to graduate with honors. The UofM also has a well thought of Emerging Leaders Program where students get real world experience to become tomorrow's leaders. Undergraduate Undergraduate College and Degree Programs listing and the Undergraduate Catalog for specific degree requirements. Visit Undergraduate Majors, Minors and Concentrations for details. Graduate Graduate Academic Degree Programs listing and the Graduate Catalog for specific degree requirements. Academics Welcome Academic Resources Colleges and Schools Courses / Class Offerings Undergraduate Graduate Honors Program Online Programs Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/25/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .