#http://www.memphis.edu/architecture/accreditation/
Accreditation - Department of Architecture - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Architecture About Programs Community Engagement Faculty + Staff Alumni accreditation Architecture What is NAAB Accreditation? National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB) National Council of Architectural Registration Boards (NCARB) Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture (ACSA) American Institute of Architects (AIA) American Institute of Architecture Students (AIAS) Program Reports and Documents NAAB 2009 Conditions for Accreditation NAAB 2014 Conditions for Accreditation NAAB 2012 Procedures for Accreditation NAAB Annual Reports NAAB Student Performance Criteria Letter of Continuing Accreditation Letter of Initial Accreditation Memphis 2014 Annual Report Memphis 2013 Annual Report Memphis 2012 Annual Report Memphis 2011 Annual Report Memphis 2011 Annual Report Supplement NAAB Response to 2011 Annual Report Memphis 2010 Annual Report NAAB Response to 2010 Annual Report Memphis 2014 Architecture Program Report (APR) Memphis 2012 Architecture Program Report (APR) Memphis 2009 Architecture Program Report (APR) Memphis 2012 APR Visiting Team Report Memphis 2010 APR Visiting Team Report More Resources AIAS - Toward an Evolution of Studio Culture Department of Architecture Studio Culture Policy ARCHCareers.org The NCARB Handbook for Interns and Architects The Emerging Professional’s Companion Interior Design What is CIDA Accreditation? Council for Interior Design Accreditation (CIDA) CIDA Professional Standards National Council for Interior Design Qualification (NCIDQ) Program Reports and Documents 2013 CIDA Institutional Data Home Department of Architecture Accreditation Architecture Accreditation The University of Memphis, Department of Architecture, offers the professional Master of Architecture (M.Arch) degree based on the national "4+2" model which consists of the pre-professional Bachelor of Fine Arts in Architecture degree and the professional M.Arch degree. The M.Arch degree is fully accredited by the National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB). The BFA in Architecture is a pre-professional degree and is therefore not accredited by the NAAB. Please see below for important information on accreditation. In the United States, most registration boards require a degree from an accredited professional degree program as a prerequisite for licensure. The National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB), which is the sole agency authorized to accredit professional degree programs in architecture offered by institutions with U.S. regional accreditation, recognizes three types of degrees: the Bachelor of Architecture, the Master of Architecture, and the Doctor of Architecture. A program may be granted an eight-year, three-year, or two-year term of accreditation, depending on the extent of its conformance with established educational standards. Doctor of Architecture and Master of Architecture degree programs may require a pre-professional undergraduate degree in architecture for admission. However, the pre-professional degree is not, by itself, recognized as an accredited degree. The University of Memphis, Department of Architecture, offers the following NAAB-accredited degree program: M.Arch. (pre-professional degree + 60 graduate credits). Initial Candidacy: 2008; Continuation of Candidacy: 2010; Initial Accreditation: 2012; Continuing Accreditation Visit: 2015. In order to meet the education requirement set forth by the National Council of Architectural Registration Boards, an applicant for an NCARB Certificate must hold a professional degree in architecture from a program accredited by the NAAB; the degree must have been awarded not more than two years prior to initial accreditation. However, meeting the education requirement for the NCARB Certificate may not be equivalent to meeting the education requirement for registration in a specific jurisdiction. Please contact NCARB for more information. Interior design Accreditation The Department of Architecture offers the four-year professional Bachelor of Fine Arts degree with a major in Interior Design. The degree is fully accredited by the Council for Interior Design Accreditation (CIDA). The program was initially accredited in 2002 and granted continuing accreditation in 2008 and 2015. The next visit will be in 2023. The practice of interior design varies greatly from state to state. In Tennessee, interior design is regulated by a title act, not a practice act. This means only qualified individuals may use the title Registered Interior Designer. For more information, contact the National Council for Interior Design Qualification (NCIDQ). accreditation Architecture What is NAAB Accreditation? National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB) National Council of Architectural Registration Boards (NCARB) Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture (ACSA) American Institute of Architects (AIA) American Institute of Architecture Students (AIAS) Program Reports and Documents NAAB 2009 Conditions for Accreditation NAAB 2014 Conditions for Accreditation NAAB 2012 Procedures for Accreditation NAAB Annual Reports NAAB Student Performance Criteria Letter of Continuing Accreditation Letter of Initial Accreditation Memphis 2014 Annual Report Memphis 2013 Annual Report Memphis 2012 Annual Report Memphis 2011 Annual Report Memphis 2011 Annual Report Supplement NAAB Response to 2011 Annual Report Memphis 2010 Annual Report NAAB Response to 2010 Annual Report Memphis 2014 Architecture Program Report (APR) Memphis 2012 Architecture Program Report (APR) Memphis 2009 Architecture Program Report (APR) Memphis 2012 APR Visiting Team Report Memphis 2010 APR Visiting Team Report More Resources AIAS - Toward an Evolution of Studio Culture Department of Architecture Studio Culture Policy ARCHCareers.org The NCARB Handbook for Interns and Architects The Emerging Professional’s Companion Interior Design What is CIDA Accreditation? Council for Interior Design Accreditation (CIDA) CIDA Professional Standards National Council for Interior Design Qualification (NCIDQ) Program Reports and Documents 2013 CIDA Institutional Data Resources Portfolio Requirements, Policies and Procedures, Scholarships, Awards, Students Organizations, Advising, Professional Registration News + Events Gallery Accreditation Architecture, Interior Design, Links, Reports Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .