#http://www.memphis.edu/studentaffairs/about/mission.php
Mission of Student Affairs - Division of Student Affairs - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Division of Student Affairs About Us Departments For Students For Faculty &amp; Staff For Parents Give Back About Us VP for Student Affairs VP Office Staff Annual Reports Organizational Chart Mission &amp; Goals Home Division of Student Affairs About Us Mission of Student Affairs Mission of Student Affairs Mission The Mission of Student Affairs is to foster student learning and promote student success through engagement and involvement in community, academics, diversity and leadership. Core Values: LEADERS Learning : Establishing and articulating high expectations for student learning Excellence : Modeling excellence in all that we do Assessment : Making decisions on the basis of data. Diversity : Living well together in a diverse world Ethical Leadership: Developing leaders who demonstrate responsibility and integrity Relationships : Building connections within and beyond our community Spirit : Promoting enthusiasm, passion and a sense of belonging that inspires Tiger pride Goals Increase student retention and timely graduation Each department will track retention and graduation rates for a target population. This allows us to establish baseline and projection data for programs, and also demonstrates how Student Affairs contributes to the University Strategic Plan's goal of increased student persistence and timely graduation. Strengthen student connection to the University community Increase the number of students participating in key co-curricular activities and programs including: Student Activities Council Student Government/Freshman Senate Frosh Camp Fraternity and Sorority Life Minority Student Organizations Adult &amp; Commuter Student Services Intramural sports Leadership programs Community Service participants and hours Number of &amp; Students involved in Registered Student Organizations Cultivate a respectful and intellectually stimulating campus environment Measured by EBI Climate Assessment Civility campaign Create a service-oriented campus culture in all units Each department will measure customer satisfaction and/or evaluate processes to ensure a service-orientation Help students to lead lives of purpose Student Affairs Vision for Students Understanding and Managing Self Engaging Others in a Diverse World Succeeding as a Professional Develop and apply knowledge of self, including personality, values, interests and aptitudes Establish a connection to the University of Memphis Apply academic and co-curricular content to real-world contexts through experiential learning Enhance competence to make ethical decisions, think critically, and live with integrity Develop an inclusive and interactive community focusing on understanding and respect of individual and group differences Identify, develop and articulate competencies necessary to succeed in one's chosen field Demonstrate autonomy and personal responsibility Become engaged citizens locally and globally Understand the importance of life-long learning Enhance physical, psychological, interpersonal and spiritual well-being Develop skills to manage and solve problems Demonstrate effective leadership skills Possess appropriate self-efficacy Demonstrate civility Understand the concept of professional identity and develop appropriate professional behaviors About Us VP for Student Affairs VP Office Staff Annual Reports Organizational Chart Mission &amp; Goals Contact us Let us know how we may assist you Organizational Chart Learn about our division's organizational structure Mission and Goals Learn about what drives us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .