#http://www.memphis.edu/oie/title9/sexualmisconduct.php
Sexual Misconduct - OIE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Office for Institutional Equity About EOAA Harassment Title IX ADA Policies Resources Home OIE Title IX and Sexual Misconduct Sexual Misconduct SEXUAL MISCONDUCT The University is committed to ensuring equality in education and eliminating any and all acts of sexual misconduct from the campus. The following constitute a violation of University of Memphis' sexual misconduct policy: Sexual assault Dating violence Domestic violence Stalking All of the above are considered unacceptable. Actions that result in charges of sexual misconduct under this policy will be subject to University disciplinary action. They may also subject a student or staff member to criminal and/or civil liability under state law. Policy on Sexual Misconduct and Domestic Violence The University has a policy prohibiting sexual misconduct. The University has made every effort to formulate a comprehensive policy that provides students with information about the applicable definitions and the process. The policy contains definitions of sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence and stalking as well as information regarding consent and reporting. Reporting Sexual Misconduct There are several options available to a student who is a victim of sexual misconduct and who decides to report. In addition to bringing charges in criminal or civil court the complainant may also seek recourse through the university disciplinary process if the perpetrator is a student. A complaint can be filed directly with the following University offices: Title IX Coordinator Office for Institutional Equity 156 Administration Building (901) 678-2713 Associate Dean, Office of Student Conduct Office of Student Conduct 359 University Center (901) 678-2298 studentconduct@memphis.edu University of Memphis Police Services 109 Zach Curlin St. (901) 678-4357 police@memphis.edu We strongly encourage you to report incidents of misconduct to the appropriate campus officials or University Police. The University's Title IX Coordinator serves as a point of contact for any student who wishes to discuss a concern. The Title IX Coordinator is located in the Office for Institutional Equity in 156 Administration Building, and may be reached by phone at 678-2713 or via the office's website at Resources Information for Complainants Information for Respondents Sexual Misconduct information brochure Resources for Students Additional Information Questions and Answers on Title IX and Sexual Violence by the United States Department of Education's Office of Civil Rights The Campus Sexual Violence Elimination (SaVE) Act by the Clery Center Training OIE sponsors several online training modules, available in Learning Curve. Contact Us OIE provides a range of services that support equal opportunity and nondiscrimination. How to File a Complaint File a complaint of discrimination, harassment, sexual misconduct or retaliation. Sexual Misconduct General information and resources Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/14/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .