#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/ccfa/comm.php
COMM Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning COMM Courses COMMUNICATION (COMM) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: COMM 6210-19. Special Topics in Communication Studies. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in the online class listings. May be repeated for maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. COMM 6220-29. Special Topics in Film. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in online class listings. May be repeated for maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. COMM 7210-19–8210-19. Special Topics in Communication Studies. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in online class listings. May be repeated for maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. COMM 6011 - Communctn In Orgnztns (3) Communication systems and problems in contemporary organizations with emphasis on the role of communication in corporate culture and in organizational change. COMM 6013 - Political Communication (3) Investigation of various forms of political communication; texts drawn primarily from current political disputes in the US; focus on improving basic skills of critical thinking and writing about civic life. COMM 6014 - Communication in Internet (3) Research and theories examining role of the Internet and new technologies in everyday interaction; interpersonal and group communication, language change, online communities and social networks, identity and self-presentation online. COMM 6015 - Health Literacy (3) Development of health literacy as an area of concern in healthcare includiing patient/provider interactions, public health campaigns, health education, healthcare reform, and health insurance. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3012, or permission of instructor. COMM 6016 - Public Health Campaigns (3) Examination of the fundamentals of public health communication as well as the latest public health communcation innovations, tools, technologies, research and strategies. PREREQUSITE: COMM 3012, or permission of instructor. COMM 6340 - Listening (3) Exploration of communication theory and practice from the perspective of listening; emphasis on philosophical, practical, and personal dimensions of listening as an art of being as well as a mode of doing. COMM 6341 - Interprsnl Communicatn (3) Theory, research, and practice regarding dyadic communication. COMM 6342 - Small Group Communcatn (3) Advanced study of group communication theory emphasizing group membership, member perceptions, group development, group process, and group outcomes. COMM 6360 - American Eloquence (3) Examination of notable public discourse from founding of the republic through the twentieth century; religious and secular foundations of American rhetoric; tensions of inclusion and exclusion in development of national self-understanding. COMM 6363 - Dialogue (3) Theoretical, philosophical, and practical exploration of dialogic communication and relations. COMM 6364 - Voices/American Women (3) Examines history of women's public discourse in the US from 19th through 20th centuries; considers social and cultural significance of women's participation in public discourse; issues of credibility and nature of argument both within and about women's public address. COMM 6365 - Place/Community/Comm (3) Explores interrelationships among human interaction, created places, and the natural world; emphasizes communication environment, broadly conceived, and its effects on community. COMM 6373 - Interracial Comm (3) The social problems encountered in communication between blacks and whites; readings, discussion, and field study on how prejudice, stereotypes, and self-concepts can affect communication; exploration of rhetorical methods to minimize these problems. COMM 6375 - Intercultrl Communicatn (3) Special problems encountered in communication between people of different cultural backgrounds; focus on understanding communicative interaction between and among people with different national/cultural backgrounds and functioning more effectively in multicultural settings. COMM 6380 - Communication/Conflict (3) Theories and methods of conflict management and resolution, focusing on practical communication skills; emphasis on concepts of perception, listening, and peacemaking. COMM 6802 - Internship (1-6) Field studies in communication; supervised practical work with government institutions, private business, film company, or broadcast and electronic media firm; written analysis of experience required. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 semester hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. COMM 6811 - Media 2.0 (3) Examination of long tail phenomenon and other theories behind convergent media; people and organizations producing and distributing their work on the Internet and other alternative channels; exploration of how these new distribution forms challenges and assumptions about how mass media should and does work. COMM 6822 - Audio Prdctn Film/Video (3) Intermediate principles and practices of audio (recording, editing, mixing, and design) with emphasis on film and video production. PREREQUISITE: Minimum grade of "C" in COMM 3824 or permission of instructor. COMM 6824 - Cinema/Videography (3) Art of visual interpretation with a strong concentration in the theory and techniques of lighting. Experience with professional film and video cameras and lighting equipment. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3824. COMM 6825 - Editing/Post Production (3) Aesthetics of continuity development in variety of editing styles; editing techniques and post-production procedures for both video and double system film. PREREQUISITE: Minimum grade of "C" in COMM 3824 or permission of instructor. COMM 6841 - Television Workshop (4) Production of television programming for local cablecasting. May be repeated for a maximum of 8 semester hours; repetition will not result in change of any grade previously given. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. COMM 6842 - TV Studio Production II (4) Advanced training in TV studio/multiple camera techniques; extensive production work. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3842. COMM 6850 - Film History I (3) (6852). Historical survey of motion pictures from medium's pre-history to 1940 with emphasis on narrative film. COMM 6851 - Film History II (3) Historical survey of major movements, genres, and themes in narrative film from 1940 to 1960. COMM 6853 - Documentary Form Film (3) Development of non-fiction film as rhetorical and expressive form; analysis of individual films, genres, and filmmakers. COMM 6854 - Documentary Form/Broadcasting (3) History, theory, and criticism of non-fiction broadcasting, including docudrama and television documentaries. COMM 6856 - Women And Film (3) Women as performers, viewers, subjects, and creators in American and international film. COMM 6858 - Contemporary Cinema (3) Major themes and styles in international and American narrative film from 1980 to present. COMM 6859 - Monster Films (3) Survey of classic and contemporary monster films exploring monstrosity as a social and cultural category for organizing, classifying, and managing change. COMM 6891 - Produce/Direct Film/Vid (3) Research and script preparation; budgeting and production management; working with actors and crew. PREREQUISITE: Minimum grade of C in COMM 3824 or permission of instructor. COMM 6960 - Documentary Writing (3) Writing for nonfiction media. COMM 6970 - Screenwriting (3) Writing for fiction film and television. Basic dramatic theory, narrative structure, characterization, dialogue, adaptation and unique demands of audio/visual media. COMM 7012 - Seminar Health Comm (3) (Same as ENGL 7012-8012). Examines current issues in health communication research, including patient-provider relationships, new technologies and health promotion, and health organizations. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. COMM 7013 - Sem Political Comm (3) Survey of critical and rhetorical theories of contemporary US political discourse; examines relationships among rhetoric, culture, and state power; assignments lead toward preparation of manuscript for eventual publication. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit. COMM 7014 - Public Health Communication (3) Explores the communication processes and practices that can be used to promote positive change in health behaviors, including the rhetorical exigencies inherent in public health care communication, the various formats for disseminating medical information, and the specific audience needs that health care communication must address. COMM 7321 - Communication Theory (3) Theories, models, and approaches to study of communication. COMM 7322 - Persuasion & Influence (3) Topical seminar examining how people use communication to alter attitudes and behaviors of others in public and face-to-face settings; covers various social-scientific theories and research areas of persuasion and interpersonal influence. May be repeated for maximum of 9 hours. COMM 7331 - Sem Communication Thry (3) Specific topics, issues, and research in communication theory. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit. COMM 7332 - Seminar Comm Research (3) Examination of particular methodologies in communication research. Content will vary in response to current issues in the field. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours. COMM 7345 - Health Literacy (3) (Same as PUBH 7345-8345) This course will introduce students to the issues of health literacy from a public health perspective. We will explore the impact of health literacy on access to care, vulnerable populations, management of chronic illness, mental health, healthcare costs, and several other areas. COMM 7350 - Rhetorical Theory (3) (Same as ENGL 7350-8350). History of rhetoric from the sophists through the present; may include reading from Isocrates, Plato, Aristotle, Cicero, Augustine, Erasmus, Ramus, Campbell, Blair, John Q. Adams, and others. COMM 7362 - Sem Public Address (3) Intensive study of selected topics in the analysis and criticism of public arguments; emphasis on cross-cultural comparison of arguments and appeal in common rhetorical situations. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. COMM 7369 - Sem Org Communications (3) Selected variables of organizational communication with emphasis on methods of analyzing and auditing communication within the organizational setting. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit. COMM 7371 - Rhetorical Criticism (3) (Same as ENGL 7371-8371). Examines principal modes of contemporary rhetorical analysis. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor for non-degree-seeking students. COMM 7374 - Independent Studies Comm Arts (1-3) Independent research in areas of special interest including rhetoric, communication, and film and video production. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of the instructor. Grades of A-F will be given. COMM 7434 - Qual Research Methods (3) Survey of qualitative research in communication. Practical experience in collecting and analyzing qualitative information. COMM 7450 - Sem Interpersonal Comm (3) Selected examination of theory about one-on-one interactions, related research, and application of that theory and research in diverse interpersonal contexts. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit. COMM 7474 - Supv Comm & Leadership (3) Examination of the communication issues, strategies, and concepts involved in supervisory communication effectiveness. Review of current research regarding supervision, leadership, and teams. COMM 7616 - Contemp Rhet Theory (3) Examines the relationship between rhetorical theory and contemporary philosophy, especially poststructuralism, neo-pragmatism, and hermeneutics. COMM 7621 - Seminar Argumentation (3) (Same as ENGL 7621-8621). Examines historical and contemporary argumentation theories and how those theories are incorporated into teaching oral argumentation and composition. COMM 7632 - Sem Rhet Criticism (3) Examination of the principal modes of contemporary rhetorical analysis such as Neoclassical, Burkean, Feminist, Cultural/Critical, and Poststructuralist. Repeatable for 9 hours. COMM 7802 - Internship (1-6) Field studies in communication; supervised practical work with government institutions, private business, film company, or broadcast and electronic media firm; written analysis of experience required. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 semester hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. COMM 7803 - Seminar Film Criticism (3) (COMM 7802) Intensive study of selected periods, genres, or filmmakers with emphasis on independent research project. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours. COMM 7804 - Sem Media Theory/Crit (3) Major critical approaches to media form and content; emphasis on film and television. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours. COMM 7806 - Trends Mass Communicatn (3) Critical issue or issues facing communications today. Topics will vary each time offered. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credits. COMM 7808 - Mass Comm & Society (3) Interrelationships between mass communications, the individual, and society. Topics will vary each time offered. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credits. COMM 7809 - Sem Communication Hist (3) Selected topics in history of communication, including public address, film, broadcasting, and electronic media. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours. COMM 7815 - Sem History Rhetoric (3) (Same as ENGL 7815-8815). Examines different periods and issues of rhetorical history each semester; one semester will consider Greek rhetoric (beginnings through New Testament); another will consider Latin rhetoric (Cicero through Renaissance); a third will cover Scottish, British, and American rhetoric. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. COMM 7819 - Rhetoric Of Science (3) (Same as ENGL 7819-8819).This course examines scientific and technical communication from a rhetorical perspective, showing how scientific knowledge is shaped not only by data and method, but also by persuasive purposes and sociocultural forces. COMM 7820 - Topics In Rhetoric (3) (Same as ENGL 7820-8820). Topical seminar devoted to an important aspect of the history, theory, or criticism of rhetoric. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. COMM 7892 - Film/Video Production (1-3) Workshop for film and video production. Students write, produce, direct, or assume crew responsibilities on productions. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credits. See departmental guidelines for independent production requirements and procedures. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3824 or permission of instructor. Grades of A-F will be given. COMM 7991 - Sem Comparative Media (3) To demonstrate through intensive analysis what happens to the form and content of a creative work in its various adaptations: novel, condensation, stage, movie, and television. Open to all Theatre and Dance, Communication, and English majors. COMM 7993 - Special Problems (1-3) Directed individual investigation of special research projects not included in thesis. Grades of A-F will be given. COMM 7994 - Culminating Project (3-6) Culminating research project in lieu of a thesis. Course may be repeated up to 6 hours. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. COMM 7995 - Production Practicum (3-6) Creative performance or production project suitable for public presentation and/or a practical application. Project to be determined in consultation with and directed by the student's supervisory committee. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. COMM 7996 - Thesis (1-6) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. COMM 8012 - Seminar Health Comm (3) (Same as ENGL 7012-8012). Examines current issues in health communication research, including patient-provider relationships, new technologies and health promotion, and health organizations. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. COMM 8013 - Sem Political Comm (3) Survey of critical and rhetorical theories of contemporary US political discourse; examines relationships among rhetoric, culture, and state power; assignments lead toward preparation of manuscript for eventual publication. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit. COMM 8014 - Public Health Communication (3) Explores the communication processes and practices that can be used to promote positive communication processes and practices that can be used to promote positive change in health behaviors, including the rhetorical exigencies inherent in public health care communication, the various formats for disseminating medical information, and the specific audience needs that health care communication must address. COMM 8321 - Communication Theory (3) Theories, models, and approaches to study of communication. COMM 8322 - Persuasion & Influence (3) Topical seminar examining how people use communication to alter attitudes and behaviors of others in public and face-to-face settings; covers various social-scientific theories and research areas of persuasion and interpersonal influence. May be repeated for maximum of 9 hours. COMM 8331 - Sem Communication Thry (3) Specific topics, issues, and research in communication theory. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit. COMM 8332 - Seminar Comm Rsearch (3) Examination of particular methodologies in communication research. Content will vary in response to current issues in the field. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours. COMM 8345 - Health Literacy (3) (Same as PUBH 7345-8345) This course will introduce students to the issues of health literacy from a public health perspective. We will explore the impact of health literacy on access to care, vulnerable populations, management of chronic illness, mental health, healthcare costs, and several other areas. COMM 8350 - Rhetorical Theory (3) (Same as ENGL 7350-8350). History of rhetoric from the sophists through the present; may include reading from Isocrates, Plato, Aristotle, Cicero, Augustine, Erasmus, Ramus, Campbell, Blair, John Q. Adams, and others. COMM 8362 - Seminar Public Address (3) Intensive study of selected topics in the analysis and criticism of public arguments; emphasis on cross-cultural comparison of arguments and appeal in common rhetorical situations. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. COMM 8369 - Sem Org Communications (3) Selected variables of organizational communication with emphasis on methods of analyzing and auditing communication within the organizational setting. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit. COMM 8371 - Rhetorical Criticism (3) (Same as ENGL 7371-8371). Examines principal modes of contemporary rhetorical analysis. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor for non-degree-seeking students. COMM 8374 - Independent Studies Comm Arts (1-3) Independent research in areas of special interest including rhetoric, communication, and film and video production. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of the instructor. Grades of A-F will be given. COMM 8434 - Qual Research Methods (3) Survey of qualitative research in communication. Practical experience in collecting and analyzing qualitative information. COMM 8450 - Sem Interpersonal Comm (3) Selected examination of theory about one-on-one interactions, related research, and application of that theory and research in diverse interpersonal contexts. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit. COMM 8474 - Supv Comm & Leadership (3) Examination of the communication issues, strategies, and concepts involved in supervisory communication effectiveness. Review of current research regarding supervision, leadership, and teams. COMM 8616 - Comtemp Rhet Theory (3) Examines the relationship between rhetorical theory and contemporary philosophy, especially poststructuralism, neo-pragmatism, and hermeneutics. COMM 8621 - Seminar Argumentation (3) (Same as ENGL 7621-8621). Examines historical and contemporary argumentation theories and how those theories are incorporated into teaching oral argumentation and composition. COMM 8632 - Sem Rhet Criticism (3) Examination of the principal modes of contemporary rhetorical analysis such as Neoclassical, Burkean, Feminist, Cultural/Critical, and Poststructuralist. Repeatable for 9 hours. COMM 8803 - Seminar Film Criticism (3) Intensive study of selected periods, genres, or filmmakers with emphasis on independent research project. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours. COMM 8804 - Sem Media Theory/Crit (3) Major critical approaches to media form and content; emphasis on film and television. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours. COMM 8806 - Trends Mass Communicatn (3) Critical issue or issues facing communications today. Topics will vary each time offered. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credits. COMM 8808 - Mass Comm & Society (3) Interrelationships between mass communications, the individual, and society. Topics will vary each time offered. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credits. COMM 8809 - Sem Communication Hist (3) Selected topics in history of communication, including public address, film, broadcasting, and electronic media. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours. COMM 8815 - Sem History Rhetoric (3) (Same as ENGL 7815-8815). Examines different periods and issues of rhetorical history each semester; one semester will consider Greek rhetoric (beginnings through New Testament); another will consider Latin rhetoric (Cicero through Renaissance); a third will cover Scottish, British, and American rhetoric. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. COMM 8819 - Rhetoric Of Science (3) (Same as ENGL 7819-8819).This course examines scientific and technical communication from a rhetorical perspective, showing how scientific knowledge is shaped not only by data and method, but also by persuasive purposes and sociocultural forces. COMM 8820 - Topics In Rhetoric (3) (Same as ENGL 7820-8820). Topical seminar devoted to an important aspect of the history, theory, or criticism of rhetoric. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. COMM 8993 - Special Problems (1-3) Directed individual investigation of special research projects not included in thesis. Grades of A-F will be given. COMM 8995 - Production Practicum (3-6) Creative performance or production project suitable for public presentation and/or a practical application. Project to be determined in consultation with and directed by the student's supervisory committee. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. COMM 8996 - Reading for Comps (1-9) Arranged on an individual basis for communication students only. May be taken only at the end of coursework to fulfill the requirements for the PhD. Does not count toward the 45 hours of academic coursework required for the degree. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. COMM 9000 - Dissertation (1-9) For students who have passed their comprehensive exam and have an approved prospectus to write their dissertation under the direction of their advisor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .