#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/engr/civl.php
CIVL Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning CIVL Courses CIVIL ENGINEERING (CIVL) NOTE: Students taking Engineering courses will be charged an additional $25 per credit hour. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: CIVL 6900-6910. Special Topics in Civil Engineering. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in the online class listings. CIVL 7900-10–8900-10. Special Topics in Civil Engineering. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in the online class listings. CIVL 6122 - Structural Analysis II (3) Analytical and numerical solutions for statically indeterminate structures. Three lecture hour a week. PREREQUISITES: CIVL 3121, 3322. CIVL 6131 - Inter Steel Design (3) Design of plate girders and composite beams; moment connections; building design. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 3131. CIVL 6136 - Inter Rein Concr Design (3) Design of two-way slab systems; column design including length effects; integrated building design using current code provisions. PREREQUISITES: CIVL 4122, 4135. CIVL 6140 - Environmentl Engr Design (3) Detailed design of one component of an environmental engineering system with appropriate consideration of interactions with other components; design standards, procedures, and legal constraints emphasized. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Consent of instructor. CIVL 6143 - Physical/Chem Treatment (3) Basic physical-chemical treatment concepts, including sedimentation, filtration, adsorption, neutralization, coagulation, air stripping, dissolved air flotation, disinfection, and ion exchange, with application of basic concepts to design of water and wastewater treatment systems components. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 3140. CIVL 6144 - Biol Wastewater Treat (3) Basic biological treatment concepts, including kinetics, activated sludge, fixed-film systems, lagoon systems, and sludge digestion, with application of basic concepts to design of biological wastewater treatment system components. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 3140. CIVL 6149 - Pump Station Design (3) Detailed design of sumps, pumps, piping, valves, and controls associated with the design of pumping systems for wastewater, process water, drinking water, and storm water. PREREQUISITES: CIVL 3180, 3182. CIVL 6152 - Applied Soil Mechanics (3) Subsurface exploration, foundation types, foundation construction, selection of foundation type and basis of design, earth retaining structures, and slope stability. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 4151. CIVL 6155 - Pavement Design and Evaluation (3) Structural design of concrete and asphalt pavements, design of surface and subsurface pavement drainage; performance evaluation of existing pavements; pavement rehabilitation and pavement management. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 3137 or permission of instructor. COREQUISITE: CIVL 4151 or permission of instructor. CIVL 6162 - Traffic Engineering (3) Traits and behavior patterns of road users and their vehicles, including traffic signs and signals, pavement markings, hazard delineation, capacity, accidents, and parking analysis. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 3103 and 3161. CIVL 6163 - Airport Plnng & Design (3) Aeronautical demand and air traffic control; airport and runway configuration; capacity and delay analysis; geometric design of runways and taxiways; airport access and parking; ground movements and baggage movements. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 3103 and 3161. CIVL 6164 - Route Location & Design (3) Elements of route location and design; emphasis on horizontal and vertical alignment, curvature, gradient, and sight distance. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: CIVL 1101, 3161. CIVL 6180 - Adv Hydrology/Hydraulics (3) Current methods and techniques used in hydrologic and hydraulic analysis for the design of water resources projects; watershed hydrology, groundwater hydrology, flood frequency analysis, flood plain management, hydraulic structures, hydraulic machinery, and project feasibility. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 3181. CIVL 6190 - Water Resrc Plan/Dsgn (3) Application of engineering principles to planning and design of multipurpose water resources projects; various physical components and appurtenances of water resources projects; and economic, financial, and social feasibility of various purposes. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 3181, 4111 or permission of instructor. CIVL 7001 - Engineering Analysis (3) Numerical integration of linear and non-linear differential equations; finite difference methods; systems of linear algebraic equations; applications to engineering problems. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7012 - Prob Meth In Engr (3) Concepts and methods of probability and statistics that are essential for modeling engineering problems under conditions of uncertainty; application to practical problems. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 3103. CIVL 7111 - Computatnl Mechncs (3) Advanced mathematical modeling techniques using finite difference, finite element, and boundary element formulations to solve civil engineering problems. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7112 - Plstc Dsgn Steel Strctr (3) (7122). Plastic analysis and design of steel structures; application to multistory buildings. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7113 - Prestressed Cncrte Dsgn (3) (7121). Theory of prestressing; design of prestressed concrete beams, slabs, and box girders; statically determinate and indeterminate structures. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7114 - Elastic Stability (3) Classical theory of buckling of rods, plates, and shells. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7115 - Plate Shell Struc (3) (Same as MECH 7115). Analysis of rectangular and circular flat plates; large deflections of plates; variational methods; analysis of shells as surfaces of revolution under symmetric and unsymmetric loading. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7116 - Structural Dynamics (3) Dynamic analysis of single-degree-of-freedom structures; response to general dynamic loading; modal analysis of multistory shear buildings; introduction to nonlinear and random vibration. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7117 - Finite Elem Struc Mech (3) Structural idealization, stiffness properties of elements, structural analysis of element assemblage; plane stress and strain problems; applications to problems of plates and shells; computer solution of large systems. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7119 - Earthquake Resist Design (3) Earthquake strong motion; response spectrum analysis; seismic design of buildings. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7123 - Seismic Risk Assess (3) Evaluation of seismic hazard and site-specific ground motion for critical facilities; analysis of structural reliability and seismic risk. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7125 - Earthquake Ground Motion Simul (3) (same as CERI 7124-8124). Contemporary methods in earthquake ground motion simulation, applications in seismic hazard analysis and engineering, state-of-the-art simulation software. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: permission of the instructor. CIVL 7132 - Advanced Soil Mech (3) Stresses in soil masses; pore-water stresses; consolidation and settlement; shear strength; applications to problem solution. CIVL 7133 - Slopes and Embankments (3) Analysis, design, and construction of earth dams, levees, embankments and slopes; soil stabilization; seepage, drainage, and flow nets. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 6152 or permission of instructor. CIVL 7135 - Soil Dynamics (3) Theory and measurements of dynamic properties of soils and their applications in seismic hazards assessments, earthquake engineering design, and geophysics studies. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7136 - Prob & Earthquake Haz Anly (3) (same as ESCI 7204, CERI 7204) Fundamentals of basic probability, seismicity analysis, ground motion attenuation and site effects, seismic hazard analysis, and uncertainty analysis; students will perform a probabilistic seismic hazard analysis for a region of their interest. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7137 - Geotechnical Earthquake (3) Earthquake magnitude and intensity, seismic hazard evaluation using deterministic and probabilistic approaches, site response analyses and ground motion amplification, liquefaction, and response to earth structures. CIVL 7138 - Shallow and Deep Foundations (3) Analysis and design of footing, mat, pile, and drilled-shaft foundations. Three lecture hours a week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 6152 or permission of instructor CIVL 7139 - Earth Retaining Structures (3) Types of earth retaining structures. Retaining wall selection. Lateral earth pressure theories. Design of conventional, MSE, soil-nailed, and tied-back walls. Three lecture hours a week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 6152 or permission of instructor. CIVL 7141 - Water Trt Plant Dsgn (3) Design of a water treatment plant; application of fundamental water treatment theory; evaluation of alternatives; selection and design of optimum alternative. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 6143 or permission of instructor. CIVL 7142 - Wastewater Trt Plnt Dsgn (3) Design of a wastewater treatment plant; application of fundamental wastewater treatment theory; evaluation of alternative; selection and design of optimum alternative. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 6144 or permission of instructor. CIVL 7143 - Solid Waste Mgmt (3) Systems approach to solid waste generation, characterization, collection, transportation, and disposal; emphasizes both domestic and industrial wastes. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7144 - Residuals Mgmt (3) Systems approach to unique solid wastes (inflammable industrial, sewage sludge, etc.), as well as resource recovery and energy conversion as disposal practices. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7145 - Adv Biological Treatmnt (3) In-depth study of biokinetics applicable to waste management; model evaluations; hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 6144. CIVL 7146 - Adv Phys/Chem Treatmnt (3) An in-depth analysis of theory and practice of advanced water and wastewater treatment processes; emphasis on adsorption processes, ion exchange, membrane processes, chemical oxidation, land treatment, nutrient removal, and sludge treatment and disposal. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 6143 or permission of instructor. CIVL 7147 - Hazardous Waste Mgmt (3) Design of hazardous waste management systems; application of current design theories; review of regulatory requirements. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7154 - Indust Wastewater Treat (3) In-plant control measures and end-of-pipe treatment technologies for reducing conventional and toxic industrial pollutant discharges; emphasis on water conservation, wastewater recycle/reuse, and optimum treatment strategies for waste streams from major industries. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7162 - Transportation Sys Eval (3) Transportation problems, goals, and objectives; evaluation and decision-making techniques; measurement of variables and intangibles in transportation decisions, cost allocation and benefit transfer, risk and uncertainty; financing and implementation; differential impacts of transportation improvements. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7164 - Urban Transport Engr (3) A review of the transportation problem as it relates to development patterns in American cities. The theory and application to engineering and socioeconomic factors directed toward the formulation of models for conducting transportation studies. PREREQUISITE: Permission of the instructor. CIVL 7165 - Geom Dsgn Trnsprtn Syst (3) Design of streets and highways with emphasis on the factors and features controlling safe and efficient vehicle operation; applications of design concepts to urban and rural systems, intersections, interchanges, safety appurtenances, and parking facilities. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 6164 or permission of instructor. CIVL 7166 - Design Hgwy Airpt Pvmt (3) Design practices, materials, and testing of flexible and rigid pavements. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7168 - Traffic Engr Operations (3) Theory of traffic control: traffic laws and ordinances; application of traffic control devices; analysis and design of traffic signal systems, parking control and design pedestrian control; one-way and unbalanced lane operation, roadway illumination; selected operational problems. PREREQUISITES: CIVL 6162 or permission of instructor. CIVL 7169 - Mass Transit Systems (3) Operational analysis of equipment and facility design and service characteristics of urban mass transit systems; analysis of capacity, speed, accessibility, terminal operations; study of financing, decision-making, administration and marketing policies and practices, trends in future transit technology. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7170 - GW Cont Fate/Transport (3) Elements of ground water contamination and migration; study of various contaminant transport modeling techniques; analysis of numerical dispersion and stability criteria; chemical reactions; discussion of analytical solutions. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7173 - Environmental Geochem (3) (Same as GEOL 7140). Inorganic and organic geochemical concepts applied to transport and fate of contaminants in surface water, ground water, and sediment. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: GEOL 6341 and permission of instructor. CIVL 7177 - Quantitative Hydrogeol (3) Analysis of ground water parameters; geostatistics of aquifer properties used in ground water modeling via various techniques; salt water intrusion. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 7195-8195 or permission of instructor. CIVL 7181 - Statistical Hydrol Modl (3) Current statistical techniques used in stochastic, deterministic, and parametric hydrologic models; emphasis on probability and frequency analysis; optimization methods; time series analysis and synthesis; sensitivity analysis; computer applications. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7182 - Engr Sedimen & Erosion (3) Soil erosion and sedimentation process within a watershed; emphasis on means of controlling erosion and sediment from land-disturbing activities. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7185 - Hydraul Open Channels (3) (7148). Phenomena accompanying flow of water in open channels, uniform and varied flow, critical conditions, backwater curves or water surface profiles, hydraulic jumps, hydraulic drops, and various design applications. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7191 - Computer Appl Water Res (3) Application of current computer programs used in hydrology, hydraulics, sediment transport, groundwater flow, water quality, and water resources engineering and planning. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7192 - River Engineering (3) River mechanics and principles governing river regulation and improvement, with emphasis on navigation and flood control structures. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 7185-8185 or permission of instructor. CIVL 7193 - Hydraul Sediment Transp (3) River mechanics and stream morphology governing hydraulics of bed loads and sediment transport in alluvial river system; current methods for conducting sediment investigation; engineering analysis procedures for design of stable channel system. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7194 - Comp River Hydraulics (3) (7149). Advanced studies in computational open channel hydraulics; major emphasis on unsteady flow simulation in natural rivers, dynamic flood routing, sediment transport and transport of pollutants. PREREQUISITES: CIVL 7001-8001 and CIVL 7185-8185, or permission of instructor. CIVL 7195 - Groundwater Hydraulics (3) (Same as ESCI 7195). Geological contributions to ground water flow; ground water contribution to water demand and conjunctive use; well hydraulics, design and construction, pump selection; determine aquifer properties via field well tests. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 7196 - Urban Drainage (3) Flooding and pollution problems associated with urban areas; application of planning, analysis, and hydraulic design techniques for storm water and erosion control measures. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 7185-8185 or permission of instructor. CIVL 7197 - Ground Water Qual Cntrl (3) Analysis of ground water quality and contamination problems; study of multispecies chemical reactions and radioactive microbiological decay; techniques for monitoring, and site remediation of ground water problems. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 7170-8170 or permission of instructor. CIVL 7261 - Traffic Flow Theory (3) This course will introduce to student the theories that seek to describe in a precise mathematical way the interactions between the vehicles, their operators, and the infrastructure. Different models and theories that characterize the flow of highway traffic, signalized or unsignalized intersections will be presented. A number of softwares will be introduced that are currently used in practice and in research to perform traffic impact studies using macroscopic, mesoscopic and microscopic traffic simulation. PREREQUISITES: CIVL 3161 or equivalent. CIVL 7262 - Freight Demand Modeling (3) Introduce the concepts, modeling and solution methods of freight demand modeling. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor CIVL 7264 - Simulation Modeling (3) Simulation modeling of complex, dynamic and stochastic transportation systems, model building, input and output statistical data analysis, use of simulation for design, evaluation, and improvement of these systems, introduction to simulation software, review of case studies. Three lecture hours a week. PREREQUISITE: permission by instructor. CIVL 7265 - Intro to Intermodal Freight (3) An introduction to the real-world environment in which freight transportation systems are planned and operated. Emphasis is placed on the policies, methods and practices utilized in managing freight movements and intermodal transfers. Topics include the overall impact of freight transportation on the economy, individual modal operations, intermodal opportunities. PREREQUISITE: consent of instructor. CIVL 7266 - Freight Terms and Distr Facils (3) Introduce state of the art and state of the practice in modeling of operations and management of intermodal freight and distribution facilities. Overview of the advanced in freight terminal and distribution facilities modeling, design, and operation. Special reference to network modeling of facility location, allocation, and routing. Planning, design, and operations or rail/road intermodal terminals, trans-modal facilities, marine container terminals, intermodal logistics centers, and warehouses. CIVL 7901 - Bicycle/Ped Fac Plan/Design (3) Topics are varied and announced in the online class listings. CIVL 7905 - Soil and Site Improvement (3) Topics are varied and announced in the online class listings. CIVL 7907 - Transportation Netwrk Analysis (3) This course provides an analytical framework for transportation network analysis, focusing on planning and optimization. The course will discuss precise algorithms for finding transport network equilibrium flows and the applications that relate to these flows. Toics will include routing algorithms, deterministic equilibrium, transportation netowrk design, and several stochastic extensions. Mathematical rigor will be stressed and some basic programming will be expected. PREREQUISITES: permission of instructor. CIVL 7908 - Intro to Num. Opt. for Eng. (3) Introduction to Numerical Optimization for Engineers. Introduce the concepts, modeling and solution methods of unconstrained optimization and linear and integer programs. Topics include: convex analysis and polyhedral sets, unconstrained optimization methods (line search, trust region), the simplex methods, duality theory, and decomposition principles. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. CIVL 7910 - NL Analysis of Structures (3) Load modeling, structural modeling, foundation and soil modeling, methods of analysis, limit states, output of safety assessment; fundamental structural response characterisitics of stiffness, strength, ductility, overstrength, and damping; modal, pushover, response history analysis; representation of earthquake and wind input in static and dynamic, elastic and inelastic structural analysis; comprehensive source-to-design actions project. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor CIVL 7991 - Projects (3) Independent investigation of problem selected in consultation with instructor; report required. Nine laboratory hours per week. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. CIVL 7993 - Project & Report (3) Independent study for students in non-thesis option program. Students demonstrate ability to pursue, complete, and report on project related to Civil Engineering practice. Written and oral report prepared for acceptance by faculty committee. Nine laboratory hours per week. Grades of S/U, or IP will be given. CIVL 7996 - Thesis (1-6) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. CIVL 8001 - Engineering Analysis (3) Numerical integration of linear and non-linear differential equations; finite difference methods; systems of linear algebraic equations; applications to engineering problems. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8012 - Prob Meth In Engr (3) Concepts and methods of probability and statistics that are essential for modeling engineering problems under conditions of uncertainty; application to practical problems. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 3103. CIVL 8111 - Computatnl Mechncs (3) Advanced mathematical modeling techniques using finite difference, finite element, and boundary element formulations to solve civil engineering problems. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8112 - Plstc Dsgn Steel Strctr (3) (7122). Plastic analysis and design of steel structures; application to multistory buildings. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8113 - Prestressed Cncrte Dsgn (3) (7121). Theory of prestressing; design of prestressed concrete beams, slabs, and box girders; statically determinate and indeterminate structures. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8114 - Elastic Stability (3) Classical theory of buckling of rods, plates, and shells. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8115 - Plate Shell Struc (3) (Same as MECH 7115). Analysis of rectangular and circular flat plates; large deflections of plates; variational methods; analysis of shells as surfaces of revolution under symmetric and unsymmetric loading. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8116 - Structural Dynamics (3) Dynamic analysis of single-degree-of-freedom structures; response to general dynamic loading; modal analysis of multistory shear buildings; introduction to nonlinear and random vibration. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8117 - Finite Elem Struc Mech (3) Structural idealization, stiffness properties of elements, structural analysis of element assemblage; plane stress and strain problems; applications to problems of plates and shells; computer solution of large systems. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8119 - Earthquake Resist Design (3) Earthquake strong motion; response spectrum analysis; seismic design of buildings. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8124 - Software Develop (3) (Same as MECH 7382-8382). Systematic investigation of application of good software engineering principles applied to development of computationally intensive software; best practices and methodologies developed in last two decades (primarily in information processing field) applied within context of a numerical problem; language of discourse will be FORTRAN 90/95. CIVL 8125 - Earthquake Ground Motion Simul (3) (same as CERI 7124-8124). Contemporary methods in earthquake ground motion simulation, applications in seismic hazard analysis and engineering, state-of-the-art simulation software. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: permission of the instructor. CIVL 8132 - Advanced Soil Mech (3) Stresses in soil masses; pore-water stresses; consolidation and settlement; shear strength; applications to problem solution. CIVL 8133 - Slopes and Embankments (3) Analysis, design, and construction of earth dams, levees, embankments and slopes; soil stabilization; seepage, drainage, and flow nets. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 6152 or permission of instructor. CIVL 8135 - Soil Dynamics (3) Theory and measurements of dynamic properties of soils and their applications in seismic hazards assessments, earthquake engineering design, and geophysics studies. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8137 - Geotechnical Earthquake (3) Earthquake magnitude and intensity, seismic hazard evaluation using deterministic and probabilistic approaches, site response analyses and ground motion amplification, liquefaction, and response to earth structures. CIVL 8138 - Shallow and Deep Foundations (3) Analysis and design of footing, mat, pile, and drilled-shaft foundations. Three lecture hours a week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 6152 or permission of instructor CIVL 8139 - Earth Retaining Structures (3) Types of earth retaining structures. Retaining wall selection. Lateral earth pressure theories. Design of conventional, MSE, soil-nailed, and tied-back walls. Three lecture hours a week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 6152 or permission of instructor. CIVL 8141 - Water Trt Plant Dsgn (3) Design of a water treatment plant; application of fundamental water treatment theory; evaluation of alternatives; selection and design of optimum alternative. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 6143 or permission of instructor. CIVL 8142 - Wastewater Trt Plnt Dsgn (3) Design of a wastewater treatment plant; application of fundamental wastewater treatment theory; evaluation of alternative; selection and design of optimum alternative. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 6144 or permission of instructor. CIVL 8143 - Solid Waste Mgmt (3) Systems approach to solid waste generation, characterization, collection, transportation, and disposal; emphasizes both domestic and industrial wastes. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8144 - Residuals Mgmt (3) Systems approach to unique solid wastes (inflammable industrial, sewage sludge, etc.), as well as resource recovery and energy conversion as disposal practices. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8145 - Adv Biological Treatmnt (3) In-depth study of biokinetics applicable to waste management; model evaluations; hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 6144. CIVL 8146 - Adv Phys/Chem Treatmnt (3) An in-depth analysis of theory and practice of advanced water and wastewater treatment processes; emphasis on adsorption processes, ion exchange, membrane processes, chemical oxidation, land treatment, nutrient removal, and sludge treatment and disposal. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 6143 or permission of instructor. CIVL 8147 - Hazardous Waste Mgmt (3) Design of hazardous waste management systems; application of current design theories; review of regulatory requirements. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8154 - Indust Wastewater Treat (3) In-plant control measures and end-of-pipe treatment technologies for reducing conventional and toxic industrial pollutant discharges; emphasis on water conservation, wastewater recycle/reuse, and optimum treatment strategies for waste streams from major industries. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8162 - Transportation Sys Eval (3) Transportation problems, goals, and objectives; evaluation and decision-making techniques; measurement of variables and intangibles in transportation decisions, cost allocation and benefit transfer, risk and uncertainty; financing and implementation; differential impacts of transportation improvements. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8164 - Urban Transport Engr (3) A review of the transportation problem as it relates to development patterns in American cities. The theory and application to engineering and socioeconomic factors directed toward the formulation of models for conducting transportation studies. PREREQUISITE: Permission of the instructor. CIVL 8165 - Geom Dsgn Trnsprtn Syst (3) Design of streets and highways with emphasis on the factors and features controlling safe and efficient vehicle operation; applications of design concepts to urban and rural systems, intersections, interchanges, safety appurtenances, and parking facilities. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 6164 or permission of instructor. CIVL 8166 - Design Hgwy Airpt Pvmt (3) Design practices, materials, and testing of flexible and rigid pavements. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8168 - Traffic Engr Operations (3) Theory of traffic control: traffic laws and ordinances; application of traffic control devices; analysis and design of traffic signal systems, parking control and design pedestrian control; one-way and unbalanced lane operation, roadway illumination; selected operational problems. PREREQUISITES: CIVL 6162 or permission of instructor. CIVL 8169 - Mass Transit Systems (3) Operational analysis of equipment and facility design and service characteristics of urban mass transit systems; analysis of capacity, speed, accessibility, terminal operations; study of financing, decision-making, administration and marketing policies and practices, trends in future transit technology. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8170 - GW Cont Fate/Transport (3) Elements of ground water contamination and migration; study of various contaminant transport modeling techniques; analysis of numerical dispersion and stability criteria; chemical reactions; discussion of analytical solutions. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8177 - Quantitative Hydrogeol (3) Analysis of ground water parameters; geostatistics of aquifer properties used in ground water modeling via various techniques; salt water intrusion. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 7195-8195 or permission of instructor. CIVL 8181 - Statistical Hydrol Modl (3) Current statistical techniques used in stochastic, deterministic, and parametric hydrologic models; emphasis on probability and frequency analysis; optimization methods; time series analysis and synthesis; sensitivity analysis; computer applications. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8182 - Engr Sedimen & Erosion (3) Soil erosion and sedimentation process within a watershed; emphasis on means of controlling erosion and sediment from land-disturbing activities. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8185 - Hydraul Open Channels (3) (7148). Phenomena accompanying flow of water in open channels, uniform and varied flow, critical conditions, backwater curves or water surface profiles, hydraulic jumps, hydraulic drops, and various design applications. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8191 - Computer Appl Water Res (3) Application of current computer programs used in hydrology, hydraulics, sediment transport, groundwater flow, water quality, and water resources engineering and planning. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8192 - River Engineering (3) River mechanics and principles governing river regulation and improvement, with emphasis on navigation and flood control structures. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 7185-8185 or permission of instructor. CIVL 8193 - Hydraul Sediment Transp (3) River mechanics and stream morphology governing hydraulics of bed loads and sediment transport in alluvial river system; current methods for conducting sediment investigation; engineering analysis procedures for design of stable channel system. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8194 - Comp River Hydraulics (3) (7149). Advanced studies in computational open channel hydraulics; major emphasis on unsteady flow simulation in natural rivers, dynamic flood routing, sediment transport and transport of pollutants. PREREQUISITES: CIVL 7001-8001 and CIVL 7185-8185, or permission of instructor. CIVL 8195 - Groundwater Hydraulics (3) (Same as ESCI 7195). Geological contributions to ground water flow; ground water contribution to water demand and conjunctive use; well hydraulics, design and construction, pump selection; determine aquifer properties via field well tests. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 8196 - Urban Drainage (3) Flooding and pollution problems associated with urban areas; application of planning, analysis, and hydraulic design techniques for storm water and erosion control measures. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 7185-8185 or permission of instructor. CIVL 8197 - Ground Water Qual Cntrl (3) Analysis of ground water quality and contamination problems; study of multispecies chemical reactions and radioactive microbiological decay; techniques for monitoring, and site remediation of ground water problems. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 7170-8170 or permission of instructor. CIVL 8261 - Traffic Flow Theory (3) This course will introduce to student the theories that seek to describe in a precise mathematical way the interactions between the vehicles, their operators, and the infrastructure. Different models and theories that characterize the flow of highway traffic, signalized or unsignalized intersections will be presented. A number of softwares will be introduced that are currently used in practice and in research to perform traffic impact studies using macroscopic, mesoscopic and microscopic traffic simulation. PREREQUISITES: CIVL 3161 or equivalent. CIVL 8262 - Freight Demand Modeling (3) Introduce the concepts, modeling and solution methods of freight demand modeling. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor CIVL 8264 - Simulation Modeling (3) Simulation modeling of complex, dynamic and stochastic transportation systems, model building, input and output statistical data analysis, use of simulation for design, evaluation, and improvement of these systems, introduction to simulation software, review of case studies. Three lecture hours a week. PREREQUISITE: permission by instructor. CIVL 8265 - Intro to Intermodal Freight (3) An introduction to the real-world environment in which freight transportation systems are planned and operated. Emphasis is placed on the policies, methods and practices utilized in managing freight movements and intermodal transfers. Topics include the overall impact of freight transportation on the economy, individual modal operations, intermodal opportunities. PREREQUISITE: consent of instructor. CIVL 8266 - Freight Terms and Distr Facils (3) Introduce state of the art and state of the practice in modeling of operations and management of intermodal freight and distribution facilities. Overview of the advanced in freight terminal and distribution facilities modeling, design, and operation. Special reference to network modeling of facility location, allocation, and routing. Planning, design, and operations or rail/road intermodal terminals, trans-modal facilities, marine container terminals, intermodal logistics centers, and warehouses. CIVL 8901 - Bicycle/Ped Fac Plan/Design (3) Topics are varied and announced in the online class listings. CIVL 8907 - Transportation Netwrk Analysis (3) This course provides an analytical framework for transportation network analysis, focusing on planning and optimization. The course will discuss precise algorithms for finding transport network equilibrium flows and the applications that relate to these flows. Toics will include routing algorithms, deterministic equilibrium, transportation netowrk design, and several stochastic extensions. Mathematical rigor will be stressed and some basic programming will be expected. PREREQUISITES: permission of instructor. CIVL 8908 - Intro to Num. Opt. for Eng. (3) Introduction to Numerical Optimization for Engineers. Introduce the concepts, modeling and solution methods of unconstrained optimization and linear and integer programs. Topics include: convex analysis and polyhedral sets, unconstrained optimization methods (line search, trust region), the simplex methods, duality theory, and decomposition principles. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. CIVL 8910 - NL Analysis of Structures (3) Load modeling, structural modeling, foundation and soil modeling, methods of analysis, limit states, output of safety assessment; fundamental structural response characterisitics of stiffness, strength, ductility, overstrength, and damping; modal, pushover, response history analysis; representation of earthquake and wind input in static and dynamic, elastic and inelastic structural analysis; comprehensive source-to-design actions project. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor CIVL 8991 - Projects (3) Independent investigation of problem selected in consultation with instructor; report required. Nine laboratory hours per week. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. CIVL 8993 - Project & Report (3) Independent study for students in non-thesis option program. Students demonstrate ability to pursue, complete, and report on project related to Civil Engineering practice. Written and oral report prepared for acceptance by faculty committee. Nine laboratory hours per week. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. CIVL 8996 - Dissertation Proposal Prep (1-12) Exhaustive literature search and preparation of a dissertation research proposal and an oral defense of the proposal. Maximum of 12 hours may be counted toward graduation. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CIVL 9000 - Dissertation (1-12) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .