#http://www.memphis.edu/libraries/collectionmgmt/liaisons.php
Library Liaisons - Libraries - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Libraries About Services Resources Instruction Special Collections Technology Collection Management Department Liaisons Staff Serials Review - 2015 Textbook Selections Handbook Addendum Home Libraries Collection Management Library Liaisons Library liaisons are the library faculty members who work with Departmental Representatives to coordinate new acquisitions, evaluate current book and journal holdings, and generally represent the University Libraries to academic departments. College/School/Division Department or Program Fund Email your Liaison College of Arts and Sciences Anthropology ANT Elizabeth McDonald Biology BIO Bess Robinson Chemistry CHM James Rodgers Computer Science COP Cody Behles Earth Sciences EAR Joyce McKibben English ENG James Rodgers Foreign Languages FNL Dr. Linde Brocato History HIS Steve Knowlton Mathematical Sciences MAT Bess Robinson Philosophy PHI Rachel Scott Physics PHY Rachel Scott Political Science POL Linde Brocato Psychology PSY Perveen Rustomfram ROTC (Army, Air Force, Navy) RTC Steve Knowlton Sociology SOC Rachel Scott Interdisciplinary Studies African and African American Studies INA Linde Brocato Asian Studies and International Trade INS Linde Brocato Bioinformatics INB Linde Brocato International Studies INI Linde Brocato Judaic Studies INJ Linde Brocato Women's and Gender Studies INW Linde Brocato Other Interdisciplinary Topics IND Linde Brocato School of Urban and Public Affairs City and Regional Planning SUC Steve Knowlton Criminology and Criminal Justice SUJ Perveen Rustomfram Public and Non-Profit Administration SUP Elizabeth McDonald Social Work SUS Perveen Rustomfram College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture ARC Dr. Gerald Chaudron Art ART Elizabeth McDonald Communication COM Anna Neal Journalism JOU Rachel Scott Theatre &amp; Dance THE Anna Neal Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music All Programs MUS Anna Neal College of Education, Health and Human Sciences Instruction and Curriculum Leadership EDC Gail Perkins Barton Counseling, Educational Psychology, and Research EDG Gail Perkins Barton Health and Sports Science EDH Gail Perkins Barton Leadership EDL Gail Perkins Barton Fogelman College of Business and Economics Economics BUE Dr. Gerald Chaudron Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate BUF Dr. Gerald Chaudron Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management BHR James Rodgers Management BMG Joyce McKibben Department of Business Information and Technology BUD Cody Behles Marketing and Supply Chain Management BMK Sylverna Ford School of Accountancy BUA Steve Knowlton Herff College of Engineering All Programs Cody Behles Lowenberg School of Nursing All Programs NUR Perveen Rustomfram School of Communication Sciences and Disorders All Programs AUS John Swearengen School of Public Health All Programs SPA Bess Robinson University College All Programs UNI Steve Knowlton University Libraries Collection Development LBG Steve Knowlton Government Documents LGD Perveen Rustomfram Lambuth Campus LLB Dorcas Davis Library Professional Collection LPR Steve Knowlton Reference Collection LRE Joyce McKibben Special Collections LSC Dr Gerald Chaudron Please send questions/comments/suggestions to Steve Knowlton , Interim Head of Collection Management Collection Management Department Liaisons Staff Serials Review - 2015 Textbook Selections Handbook Addendum My Library Account Review your library account for due dates and more. Interlibrary Loan Request books, articles, and other research materials from other libraries. Reserve space Group study and presentation spaces available in the library. Ask-a-Librarian Got a question? Got a problem? Ask Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .