#https://umdrive.memphis.edu/g-training/itunesU/iTunes%20U%20Best%20Practices.pdf
Last Updated 7/13/15 10:35 AM Brought to you by: umTech & The Center for Teaching & Learning !!!iTunes U BEST PRACTICES Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 100 Administration Bldg., Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.8888 Email: umtech@memphis.edu Information Adapted from Apple Inc. iTunes U Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 1 | Page Table of Contents iTunes U Best Practices ........................................................................... 2 Locating Help Resources .......................................................................... 5 Servic e Desk Request ........................................................................... 5 Important Links .................................................................................. 5 iTunes U Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 2 | Page iTunes U Best Practices •!Description. Include a list of learning objectives in your course description. This will help users with a brief preview of the course content. •!Active learning pathway. Provide users with an outline of the learning activiti es, posts, and assignments. •!Display titles. Use short titles for posts and assignments so students see the most impor tant information at a glance. •!Posts. Use posts to add meaning and context to learning materials. Connect the current activities to what t hey’ve already learned and how this new content will be important in future units. •!Assignments. Begin your assignments with action verbs. Assignments will form a to -do list for your st udents. •!Diverse learning materials. You can add materials to your cour se from the Posts tab or the Materials tab. o!Incorporate materials that support diverse learning styles; aim for a healthy mix of text, video, apps, books, and so on. o!The App Store features over 100,000 education apps that cover a wide range of subjects for every grade level and learning style. o!iBooks has a large selection of books for your courses, including biographies, reference guides, and iBooks Textbooks from major education publishers. o!And the iTunes U catalog of educational content is filled with countless learning resources like lectures and v ideos to use in your courses. iTunes U Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 3 | Page •!All Materials. You can also add materials using the All Materials feature. o!Use your All Materials list to add materials if you’re teaching several courses that use the same materials. o!You can also use it to keep a wish list of items for use in future courses. •!Deep linking. Link to a particular start and stop point in a video or to a particular chapter in a book, so students can go directly to the content you’ve assigned. •!Upload original materials. You can upload original ma terials, such as presentations, worksheets, videos, and books, so everything students need to complete you r cou rse is one tap away. •!Take advantage of note taking. Use text in ePub or iB ooks formats whenever possible. o!This allows your students to take notes within the book and aggregate them in the Notes tab of the course. o!Consider converting your PDF, Word, or Pa ges documents to ePub or iBooks Author formats. •!Leverage mobility and built -in tools. Craft activities th at take advantage of the mobile platform; collect data or create content outside the cl assroom, on your campus, during field trips, or in your c ommunity. o!Take advantage of t he built -in camera, microphone, and video recorder on iPad to b uild new kinds of activities. •!Announcements. If you’re teaching an in -session cou rse, you can send announcements to your students at any time; these announcements are not connected to a topic in your outline. o!Announcements might be admi nistrative notices to students, such as a canceled class or a change to a test date. •!Preview your course. Preview your course on an iPa d, iPhone, or iPod touch before sharing it wi th your students so you’re certain it ap pears and functions the way you intended it to. iTunes U Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 4 | Page o!To preview your course, click the Setting s button and select Enroll Code from the menu. o!From the Enroll Code window, copy t he shortcut link to your course and send th e link to your iOS device using Messages or Mail. o!Then tap the shortcut link on your iOS device to preview your course. •!Including RSS feeds. If you’d like, you can add audio and video materials to your course from an RSS feed or lecture capture system. o!When you add a feed as a material, iTunes U Course Manager will import the supported materials into your course. o!As new materials are added to the feed, iTunes U Course Manager will check for updates and add the new materials to your course. •!Affiliate yo ur account. If your educational institut ion has a public iTunes U site, affiliate your iTunes U Course Manager account with y our institution. o!This gives you unlimited upload space, courses, and enrollment. o!This also allows you to submit your course to yo ur public site administrator for publish ing on your iTunes U site where it can reach students around the world. © 2013 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, iBooks, iPad, iPhone, iPod touch, and iTunes U are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. iTunes Store is a service mark of Apple Inc., registered in th e U.S. and other countries. App Store and iBooks Store are service marks of Apple Inc. Other product and company names mentioned herein may be t rademarks of their respective companies. November 2013 iTunes U Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) 5 | Page Locating Help Resources The Center for Teaching and Learning offers support to faculty, staff and students. Upon completing the training covered in this course; faculty, staff and students are able t o receive additional training help and resources. Such help can be located as follow: Service Desk Request Submitting a Ticket •!The eCourseware Help Request Form is for assistance with missing courses, enrollments, tool function issues, etc. •!Login URL: o! o!After logging in, choose the link Request Help or Services . o!Choose Request Help or Services. Call the ITS Service Desk (901 -678-8888) on a 24x7 basis •!Call the Service Desk for immediate assistance with login problems or issues with using the Service Desk Request Form. Important Links •!umTech – Memphis.edu/umtech/ •!Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) - Memphis.edu/umtech/ctl/ •!Training and Documentation - Memphis.edu/umtech/training/ •!umMedia - memphis.edu/umtech/ummedia •!eCourseware – elearn.memphis.edu