#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mis/2015FMIS7620001.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus MIS 7620 001 BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE Fall 2015 3 Credit Hours Instructor: Prof. M. L. Gille ns on Phone1: 678 - 5067 E - mail: mgillnsn@memphis.edu Office: 329 Fogelman College of Business and & Economics URL: Office Hours: Wednesday 10:15 11:45 AM, 3:30 5:00 PM or by appointment Course Overview Business Intelligence is the study of computerized support for management decision making. Topics include data mining, artificial neural networks, text and web mining, data warehousing, expert systems, and knowledge management . Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: Knowledge of database management and statistics helpful but not required. Required Texts (and Related Materials) : Business Intelligence and Analytics, 10th ed , by Sharda, Delen, and Turban; Pearson Education, 2015, ISBN 978 - 0 - 13 - 305090 - 5 Location of Course Materials elearn.memphis.edu Course Objectives : The focus of the course will be on business intelligence concepts and techniques, and the underlying data structures that the business intelligence software uses to obtain the data with which it needs to operate. The objective of the course will be to give the student a working knowledge o f business intelligence concepts, models, and techniques. Topics include data mining, neural networks, text mining, web mining, and expert systems. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree MSBA Course Methodology Lectures, guest lectures from the business community, case studies, homework, hands - on exercises, exams, and projects. In general, you should assist the instructor in creating a positive, supportive environment for learning by staying engaged in the course and actively participating in all course activities . Student's Expectations: In my role as your instructor, there are certain things you can expect from me including: well - organized and engaging learning experience, and response to emails with t wo (2) business days, and feedback on all work submitted with two (2) weeks . Grading and Evaluation Criteria Two exams during the semester -- 60%. Optional, Comprehensive Final Exam will replace lowest semester exam score (Wednesday, Dec 9, 2015, 5:30 - 7:30PM) Course project -- 20% Homework, hands - on exercises, and class participation - 20% Late homework will only be accepted with the approval of the instructor. Attendance in class is expected, as lectures and class discussion are an important part of this course. Students are required to read all of the assigned chapters and pages of the course textbook and other assigned readings. Students are responsible for the material in the assigned readings and for all material in the lectures .Students are r esponsible for all work covered and all announcements made in class. Finding out about work and announcements missed due to lateness or absence for any reason is each Final Course Grades Course Topics Tentative Course Topics and Chapter Assignments Chapter Topic 1 Introduction 3 Data Warehousing 5 Data Mining 6 Neural Networks 7 Text Mining 8 Web Mining 11 Expert Systems 12 Knowledge Management (first part of the chapter) 13 Big Data 14 The Future We will also discuss linear regression as an additional predictive technique. Final Exam Schedule: The final exam for this class will be scheduled according to the academic calendar website . Course Policies E - MAIL: This includes ensur ing that email messages are read, and that the mailbox is managed, e.g., University of Memphis regulations allow an instructor to discuss accou nt only. Attendance : Attendance in class is expected, as lectures and class discussion are an important part of this course. Adding/Dropping: - dates.php Academic Integrity All University of Memphis policies regarding Classroom Misconduct and Cheating will be enforced. These are defined by the Office of Student Conduct, . Participati on: To be successful in this course as a student, you must stay active and involved throughout the entire semester. Students are expected to participate in all interactive aspects of the course. Classroom or Online Behavior: In the classroom, it is imperat ive that students pay full attention to the instructor and not cause distractions to their fellow students or to the instructor. For these reasons, the use of laptop computers, cell phones, smart phones, Blackberries, tablets, and all other electronic dev ices, including recording devices, are not permitted in class . The only exceptions are if you are a dedicated laptop note taker or prefer to view the PowerPoint slides on your laptop. Late Assignments: Late homework/projects will only be accepted with the approval of the instructor. Extra Credit: There is no extra credit offered in this course. Your final grade will be computed based on your work on the formal/assessed activities described in this syllabus. Reporting Illness or Absence: [Your statement on reporting illness and/or absence.] Inclement Weather In the event that inclement weather requires the cancellation of classes at The University of Memphis, local radio and television media will be immediately notified. Additionally, UoM has established a n Inclement Weather Hotline at 67 8 - 0888 as well as TigerText an emergency alert text messaging service available to students, faculty and staff. Syllabus Changes The instructor reserves the right to make changes as necessary to this syllabus. If changes a re necessitated during the term of the course, the instructor will immediately notify students of such changes both by individual email communication and posting both notification and nature of the change (s) on the course bulletin board. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance