#http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/students/records/transcript-official.php
Official Transcript - Registrar - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty &amp; Staff Forms Students Students Enrollment Verification Grades Overview GPA and Grading Scale Grade Change Transcripts Overview Official Unofficial Lambuth University FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA Notification Release of Student Education Record Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Self Service Guides Home Registrar Students Official Transcript Official Transcript Basic Considerations Transcript Holds We will not release your transcript if you have any outstanding obligations to the University (unpaid fees or fines, unreturned equipment or uniforms, etc.), or if a transcript "hold" has been placed on your records for judicial, admissions-related, or other reasons. For more information, see Viewing Holds . Required Information When making a request, regardless of the method you use, be prepared to provide or indicate the following: Your complete name and any former names under which you attended. Your U-Number or the last four digits of your Social Security Number (if you do not have a U-Number). For Transcripts on Demand (TOD), you must provide your complete SSN. Your birth date. The first and last years you attended the University of Memphis. If the transcript should be held for current semester grades or a degree (indicate type). If the transcript should be held for a pending grade change (indicate course and semester). The number of copies desired and mailing addresses. Enclosures Provide/include any enclosures that are to accompany your transcript. Do not mail or FAX any enclosure to us, including a request from an outside transcript service, without our Off-Campus Transcript Request form attached. Enclosures often lack the information we need to identify your record, thus, preventing us from processing your request. If you request electronic delivery via TOD, you can include up to 5 pdf enclosures in your online request. " Issued to Student " Any transcript released directly to you will have ISSUED TO STUDENT stamped or printed on it. Many recipients require that your transcript be sent directly to them and will not accept a transcript that has been "Issued to Student." If you are not sure if an "Issued to Student" copy will be accepted, check with the recipient. Processing Time Regardless of the Request Method (below) you choose, your transcript must be reviewed and prepared by the Registrar's Office before it can be sent. This process takes 3-5 business days (excludes Saturdays, Sundays, and University holidays ). Request Methods Before selecting a method ask yourself these 2 questions: Does the recipient wish to receive my transcript electronically? If "Yes," you must use TOD to request your transcript. If "No," you can use any of our request methods. If you have any doubt about the desired format, contact the recipient before ordering. Do any of my courses pre-date Fall 1988? If “Yes,” then TOD's electronic transcript transmission is not available to you. Academic records prior to Fall 1988 are not stored electronically and, therefore, cannot be delivered electronically. You must request a hard copy of your transcript, which you can do through any of the methods below, including TOD. Methods: Comparison and Summary Online via TOD (Transcripts on Demand) How: Current Students – Login to myMemphis, go to your Student tab, and use the Transcripts on Demand channel. Former Students – Visit the Transcripts on Demand website to complete your request. Since you are not being authenticated through the portal, you will be asked to complete and submit a FERPA release form before you can complete a transcript request. FERPA regulations require that you personally authorize the release of your transcript to a third party. Format: Hard Copy (UofM transcript security paper) and Electronic (pdf) Costs: $3.00 per transcript destination Delivery: Electronic transcripts are sent electronically. As a rule, hard copies are mailed (USPS). If you want express delivery service, you must call the Registrar's Office at 901.678.3927 to make the arrangements. Considerations: Note 1 : AACOMAS no longer accepts electronic transcripts, so TOD is not an option for this association. Visit the AACOMAS website for more information. Note 2 : Also, electronic transcripts requested through Transcripts on Demand should not be used for teacher licensure purposes; only hard copies are acceptable. Electronic and/or hard copies can be requested online. Allows you to attach up to 5 pdf enclosures. Rapid delivery of electronic documents. Available 24 x 7. If you select electronic transmission, you can check on the status of your request and receive a delivery confirmation message. Payment by VISA, Mastercard, American Express, or Discover is required. You cannot use TOD's electronic transcript option if any of your courses pre-date Fall 1988. Visit our TOD FAQ page . In Person How: Go to the Registrar's Office, 003 Wilder Tower , to complete an in-office "Transcript Request" form. Be sure to have a picture ID with you. Format: Hard Copy - UofM transcript security paper Costs: Up to 20 copies FREE. Each copy over 20 costs $5.00. If you are requesting more than 20 transcripts, you must complete an in-office "Excess Transcripts Charge" form as well. Delivery: Pick up your transcripts in person or request that they be mailed (USPS). If you want your transcript(s) sent by an express delivery service, you must make arrangements with the Registrar's Office. Considerations: Registrar staff members are available to answer your questions and to assist you. No cost for first 20 transcripts. Electronic ordering and format are not available. By FAX or Postal Mail How: Complete, sign , and submit an Off-Campus Transcript Request form . We will not process your request without your handwritten signature . Our FAX Number: 901.678.3249 Our Mailing Address: University of Memphis / Transcripts / 003 Wilder Tower / Memphis, TN 38152 Format: Hard Copy (UofM transcript security paper) Costs: Up to 20 copies FREE. Each copy over 20 costs $5.00. If you are requesting more than 20 copies, you must complete and submit an Off-campus Excess Transcripts Charge form with your transcript request. Delivery: Pick up transcripts in person or request that they be mailed (USPS). If you want express delivery service, you must call the Registrar's Office at 901.678.3927 to make arrangements. Considerations: You can submit a request without travelling to the main campus or going online. No cost for first 20 transcripts. Electronic ordering and format are not available. Students Students Enrollment Verification Grades Overview GPA and Grading Scale Grade Change Transcripts Overview Official Unofficial Lambuth University FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA Notification Release of Student Education Record Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Self Service Guides Calendars Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams. Notice! Check for alerts and reminders. Contact Us Have questions? Need assistance or information? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .