#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT3110301.pdf
!"!!!MGMT 3 110-301 – Organization & Management Fall 2015 3 Credit Hours Updated: 8/18/2015 Instructor: Laura Alderson Phone /Text : 901.730.6637 E-mail: laura.alderson@memphis.edu (eCourseware email will not be used) Office: 238 FCBE Office Hours: by appointment laura_alderson Course Management: ! Course Overview !!!Course Description: Comprehensive survey of basic management concepts, principles, and function; coverage in planning, organizing, leading, and controlling organizational resources to achieve objectives; overview of decision-making within the context of organizational global environment, strategy, organizational structures, culture, human capital, ethics and corporate social responsibility, and performance. Required Textbook Bundle Daft, R.L. & Marcic, D. (2015), Understanding Management, 9th edition with MindTap™V2 Access (LOOSELEAF Text: ISBN: 9781305718562), Mason, OH: South-Western Cengage. OR eBook with MindTap: Daft, R.L. & Marcic, D. (2015) Understanding Management, 9th edition with MindTap™V2 Access (ISBN13: 978-1-305-49282-0) purchased on Cengage website: For this course, specified required course activities are located on Cengage Publisher’s MindTap™ website thus, students must purchase a new textbook and MindTap™ Access bundle. MindTap™ registration: Course Key: MTPN-QQKP-ZV8L !#!Location of Course Materials eCourseware: All course content files and tests can be found in eCourseware by logging into this course at !!MindTap : 10 of 15 graded chapter quizzes are assignment requirements for this course. Instructions and list of required MindTap activites are located in eCourseware under the Assignments module. Please note that login to MindTap is outside of eCourseware. However, MindTap login link can be found in eCourseware under Getting Started module. Course Goals & Learning Objectives This course provides a comprehensive overview of the principles and functions of management and the challenges that managers face in a dynamic, global business environment. The objective of this course is to provide students with the basic understanding of the role of management including planning, organizing, leading, controlling, and coordinating organizational resources in a technologically advanced and global environment to achieve organizational goals. Additionally, examination of internal and external environmental influences impacting organizations and management will also be addressed. This course will also provide an overview of management problem-solving skills relevant to all organizational environments and various careers. Additionally, this course is of benefit to all majors because working with people and management is applicable to all occupations and organizational environments. After taking the course, the student will: 1. understand terms and concepts associated with management of people, projects, and organizations; 2. understand the need to apply a variety of skills necessary in today’s world which involves innovative solutions to dynamic, global problems and crisis management; 3. understand the importance of working with diverse cultures, countries, and changing organizations; 4. understand the importance of managers’ decision-making challenges, knowledge management, and the need to efficiently utilize rapidly changing technologies; and 5. gain enhanced skills important in any career, including written communication, oral communication, teamwork, and critical thinking. Fogelman College: Degree Learning Outcomes The Fogelman College of Business & Economics is accredited by AACSB (The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business). As such, we are required to adhere to stated learning outcomes for our students. Learning outcomes for the BBA degree are reinforced in this class where relevant, and can be found at this link: !$!Course Methodology Classroom (Face -to-Face): In this course, students are expected to attend class for possible in-class team activities involving management role-play or scenario activities related to concepts covered in weekly chapters. Instructor lectures, guest lecturers, student-lead instruction, and multi-media clips may also be a part of course methodology. Additionally, students are expected to also login to Cengage’s MindTap website for designated activities assigned by course instructor. Class participation and discussion is strongly encouraged and adds to everyone’s learning experience. For this reason, students are expected to read current business news from business periodicals such as, Bloomberg Businessweek, The Economist, Forbes, Inc., Barron’s, The Wall Street Journal, Financial Times, and other credible business sources. Course Topics !!!Innovative Management Managing Change & Innovation Corporate Culture Human Resources Management & Diversity Managing in a Global Environment Individual Behavior Ethics & Social Responsibility Leadership Planning & Goal Setting Motivation Decision Making Communication Designing Adaptive Organizations Leading Teams Quality & Performance Professor’s Expectations In general, students should assist the instructor in creating a positive, supportive environment for learning by staying engaged in the course and actively participating in all online or face-to-face discussions. Student responsibilities include: • Logging into eCourseware at least three times a week for participation activities and obtaining course NEWS weekly updates; • Keeping up with deadlines through the course schedule in syllabus and eCourseware; • Carefully reading syllabus, assignment, and course content before asking instructor for clarification; • Promptly communicating with instructor for clarification on any course or personal matters; • Utilizing university-provided email account for communication in this course rather than eCourseware email; • Carefully proofreading all assignments, ensuring proper grammar, sentence structure, and accurate punctuation. If necessary, students should utilize free tutoring and writing help available through the University and completed well in advance of assignment due dates; • Treating all members of the course professionally with kindness and respect; • Adhering to the University’s Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities found in and the Fogelman College of Business & Economics Standards for Academic Integrity . Cheating/Unethical !%!acts/plagiarism/dishonest behavior of any form will NOT be tolerated by the Instructor. Student s’ Expectations In my role as your instructor, there are certain things you can expect from me including: well-organized and engaging learning experience, response to emails or texts within the day unless otherwise notified, and timely feedback on all work submitted prior to the next due assignment. Additionally, it is my nature to treat all members of the course equally and with respect. Guidelines For Communication Instructor Contact: Please use laura.alderson@memphis.edu email as the primary means for contacting the Instructor. Texts are also welcome using 901.730.6637. If you wish to speak to the Instructor, please first email or text to set up a meeting either by phone, Skype, or face-to-face. Face-to-face meetings are during office hours in FCBE 238 during the fall and spring semesters. The Instructor will make every attempt to respond to email or text inquiries within 24 hours during the work-week. Students will be notified when the Instructor is not available to meet the stated response time through class meeting, email, and in eCourseware news postings. !Email Guidelines "!Always include a subject line with specific concise topic and “3510—& section number” • Remember without facial expressions some comments may be taken the wrong way thus, be careful of your words and tone • Use standard fonts • Do not send large attachments without permission • Special formatting such as centering, audio messages, tables, html, etc. should be avoided • Use proper and correct grammar, spelling, and sentence format • Provide your full name in the close of the message! • Students must use the UM email account !Discussion Groups Guidelines "!Review the discussion threads thoroughly before entering the discussion • Try to maintain threads by using the “Reply” button rather than starting a new topic •Be respectful of others by not making insulting or inflammatory statements •Be cooperative with group leaders in completing assigned tasks •Be positive, thoughtful, original, and constructive in-group discussions •Respond to discussion assignments in a timely manner ! !&!Techn ology and Software Requirements • The minimum hardware requirements for eCourseware compatibility can be found at • Students MUST have access to high speed Internet that is readily available. • The software requirements are Microsoft Office Word, Adobe Acrobat Reader, and Microsoft PowerPoint. No other word processing software will be accepted. If you don’t have MS Word, then you can use free software from Microsoft’s OneDrive or save your documents as a rich text file (rtf). • Students are strongly encouraged to backup their electronic files with the use an 8MB or larger USB Flash Drive and a cloud storage website, such as UMDrive, Dropbox, or Google Drive. Technical Sup port For technical difficulties with eCourseware , first use the UMhelpdesk by filling out a form at: or calling 901.678.8888. Technical support and ticket submission for MindTap™ : Student video guides for using MindTap™ are located at Grading and Evaluation Criteria The final grade is determined by the number of points earned on 1) all required assignments, including MindTap activities, 2) tests, and 3) optional bonus activities. The total points earned will be divided by the total points possible for a final percentage. Grades will be posted in eCourseware and a final grade posted in MyMemphis portal. NOTE: There is no guarantee that the Instructor will round-up total points at the end of the semester. For example, if a student has an 89.99 average, then the course grade will be a “B.” Students will be evaluated on the following: 90-100% of total points A 80-89% of total points B 70-79% of total points 60-69% of total points C D Below 60% of total points F Assessed Activities !Points earned on the assessed activities will be distributed as follows: Course Activities Percentage Total Points Tests (4 @ 50 points each) 38% 200 Optional Final to replace lowest Test (50) Assignments 62% 330 Total Course Points 100% 530 !'! MindTap Activities !!Cengage Publisher’s MindTap™ is this course’s textbook website resource that contains various quizzes, videos, textbook eBook, and assignment activities aimed to help students experience a robust and engaging learning experience of management concepts. The website is outside of eCourseware and is located at In this course, students will be responsible for completing 10 of 15 required chapter quizzes. Details of specific quizzes and due dates are located in eCourseware under the Getting Started Module. Schedule of Activities Course assignments, activities, tests, and due dates are listed in the syllabus/course schedule location of the “Getting Started” module within eCourseware. Final Exam Schedule The final exam is to be taken within eCourseware in the “Quizzes” location. Please note that the final exam for this course is optional and if taken, will replace the lowest test grade, if the final exam grade is higher. Please see course schedule located in the “Getting Started” module within eCourseware for date window in which it should be taken. Course Policies Attendance Campus classes: attendance is expected and will be recorded. Respect for the Instructor and class members is required thus, class disruption either by arriving late or leaving early will NOT be tolerated. Excessively disruptive students will be expelled from the class. See UM Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities Some course activities are located in eCourseware thus, students should login to the eCourseware system weekly in order to complete activities. Additionally, weekly participation in MindTap activities will be required. Attendance and participation in weekly course activities is necessary for course success! Assignments, discussion postings, quizzes, projects, possible team activities are a part of the normal course week therefore, students MUST spend time in eCourseware and MindTap participating in these activities. !Course Absence !No Provision is made for making up assignments or tests except for University-approved reasons (University-sponsored trips, athletic events, or conferences) or for exceptional reasons approved by the Instructor. Those students who have extracurricular arrangements that will conflict with the course MUST make arrangements with the Instructor in advance before due dates of assignments and quizzes. Official documentation is required as proof. Note that the course is set up to allow for early submissions of assignments and completing tests within an open timeline window. Additionally, personal or work commitment conflicts are not excused absences. Please contact your Instructor immediately should you have unexpected situations arise. !(! Attendance reporting will be submitted to the University after the first two weeks of class during fall and spring semesters and within one week during summer semesters. Reporting Illness or Absence Students must immediately notify the instructor by email when needing to report an absence due to illness or in the case of another unexpected absence. Proper medical documentation will be required in cases of illness-related absences. Other documentation will be expected in other non-medical related absences. Inclement Weather !Due dates for assignment and test may be adjusted when inclement weather persists. An announcement will be made by email and posted within eCourseware news area. Adding/Dropping Please see the registrar’s website for policies and dates for adding or dropping a class! Academic Integrity Students are expected to recognize and uphold standards of intellectual and academic integrity as set forth in the University of Memphis Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities. See: Academic dishonesty of any sort will not be tolerated . Your Instructor will adhere to the University policies related to academic dishonesty. Dishonest acts related to academic work, include but are not limited to; using another student’s work as your own, plagiarizing, obtaining aid on quizzes, taking quizzes for others, having another person take your quizzes, having unauthorized knowledge of quiz content, doing work for another student, falsification, and multiple!submissions. If plagiarism occurs, the student, at minimum, may be subject to failure of the assignment and/or course. Further action could be taken, up to and including expulsion from the University. Plagiarism is the “intentional use of someone else’s exact words without quotation marks and appropriate credit or the use of someone else’s unique ideas without acknowledgment,” (Alred, G. et al. (2011). Handbook of Technical Writing. New York, NY: St. Martin’s Press.) See How to avoid plagiarism: Turnitin Statement: !“Your written work may be submitted to http:/ , or a similar electronic detection method, for an evaluation of the originality of your ideas and proper use and attribution of sources. As part of this process, you WILL be required to submit your research work electronically and be given other instructions to follow. By taking this course, you agree that all assignments may undergo this review process and that the assignment may be included as a source document in Turnitin.com's restricted access database solely for the purpose of detecting plagiarism in such documents. Any assignment not submitted according to the procedures given by the Instructor may be penalized or may not be accepted at all.” (University of Memphis, Office of Legal Counsel, October 17, 2005) !)!Electronic Devices !!!Laptops, electronic tablets, smartphones, and other Internet -ready electronic devices: The class will regularly participate in team activities and thus, students will benefit from the use of Internet-ready, electronic devices and are encouraged to utilize the devices in the course. Respectful Class Conduct for Campus Classes: When in-class research activities are not being conducted, students are to maintain proper respect for the Instructor and class members by refraining from surfing the Web, texting, listening to video or music, or participating in other disruptive and non-related class activities on the Internet. Additionally, electronic phone devices should be put in the “silent” mode during class time. Leaving the classroom to accept phone calls is also unacceptable. Moreover, any student found playing games, listening to music, or surfing the Web on the electronic devices will be asked to stop and will be asked to leave the classroom, if the conduct continues. See UM policy: Late Assignments /Tests Only one late assignment is accepted for this course. All other assignments if late, will be given a 10% reduction penalty for each day late, and a “0” on the seventh day late. No provision is available for taking tests after the due dates. If a student must miss a test on the scheduled date, students MUST let the instructor know well in advance and must provide a valid reason for the absence (e.g., school sanctioned event, documented illness or hospitalization). Other reasons for absences will be evaluated on a case –by- case basis. Syllabus Changes The Instructor reserves the right to adjust the course schedule and due dates when necessary and will announce any changes ahead of time through eCourseware News section, by email, and/or announced in class. Minor Children !!In order to protect minor children (under the age of 18), The University of Memphis has a policy (see that states that no minor child will be allowed on campus in the workplace, in the classroom, or on campus in unsupervised circumstances. For possible childcare openings on the UM Campus, please check with The Child Development Center Evening Program for children 30 months through 12 years at 901.678.5059 for more information. Student Services !!Please access the!FCBE Student Services page for information about:!• Students with Disabilities • Tutoring and other Academic Assistance • Advising Services for Fogelman Students • Technical Assistance !*!Resources, Education and Writing Assistance APA format websites or Career Servic es Educational Support Program (ESP) provides academic counseling, contact information is Professio nal Development Center Programs The Business Learning Center Room 256, FCBE, provides tutoring in accounting, statistics, finance, management, and marketing. Writing assistance Available in Patterson, Room 225 only. Contact number is 901.678.3912. Tutoring General tutoring ( Writing and online tutoring ( University of Memphis plagiari sm policy and helpful tutorials UM Policy on Plagiarism How To Avoid Plagiarism Study efficiencies/time management Mitchell Hall, Room 207