#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mis/2015FMIS7650001.pdf
Course Syllabus MIS 7650 -001 – Information Systems Global Enterprise Spring Semester, 2015 3 Credits (Last updated: 8/4/2015) Instructor: Dr. Brian Janz, Professor of MIS Office: Rm 316 FCBE Admin Bldg (FAB) Phone: 901.678.5526 E-mail: bdjanz@memphis.edu Twitter: docjanz Skype ID: docjanz LinkedIn: -janz/1/b/19b URL: eCourseware: "ground zero" for all information related to the course. Office Hours: 8:55am -9:40am and 11:15am-12:00pm (TTh), and by appointment. Course Overview Information systems and their roles and applications in global enterprises, including conceptual foundations, business applications, impacts on organizational behavior, and how IT may be used to implement global strategies to gain competitive advantage. Pre -Requisites/Co -Requisites: MBA student in good standing. Required Texts (and Related Materials): Laudon, K.C. and Laudon, J.P. (2014). Management Information Sys tems: Managing the Digital Firm, 13th edition. Saddle River, NJ: Pearson -Prentice Hall. ISBN -13: 978-0-13-389816-3. Tapscott, Don. (2009). Grown Up Digital: How the Net Generation is Changing Your World . New York, NY: McGraw -Hill. ISBN: 978-0-07-150863-6. Course Objectives: This course has two primary objectives: 1. Engage students with the main concepts of the information systems (IS) discipline and how IS are used within organizations today, as well as how IS enable global business. The text coverage includes vignettes, business examples, special interest boxes, and case studies. Specific topic coverage includes: IS in Global Business; How Businesses Use IS for Global E -Business; IS, Organizations, and Strategy; Ethical and Social Issue s in IS; IT Infrastructure and Emerging Technologies; Business Intelligence: Databases and Information Management; Telecommunications and the Internet; IS Security; Enterprise IT Applications; E -Commerce; Knowledge Management and Collaboration; Enhancing D ecision Making with IS; and Building Systems and Managing Systems and Projects. 2. Familiarize students with a few of the fundamental Web 2.0 technologies available to organizations today. These technologies include social networking technologies, collabora tive technologies, and online communication technologies. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree The learning outcomes for the MBA degree program are located on the following URL: ningOutcomes.pdf Course Methodology This is an online course. As such, much of the learning will be self -managed and self -paced. This has the benefit of accommodating each student’s unique schedules, learning styles, and preferences, but does bring with it the added responsibility of actually managing one’s progress through the course ! In general, the course will consist of a combination of online lectures (both audio and PowerPoint slides), in -depth online discussion of real -world business problems as o utlined in case studies and spontaneous discovery, interactive chat sessions, homework, and both individual and group activities. Mastery of the assigned material will be determined primarily by student engagement in online activities and performance on h omework assignments, individual and group projects, and quizzes. Professor’s Expectations In general, you should assist the instructor in creating a positive, supportive environment for learning. Past experience with students has proven that the professor as course instructor will serve as only one source of learning. A portion of learning will also derive from in -class discussions, the discussions held in informal conversation and group meetings, as well as from individual contemplation of course readings and projects. To that end, students are expected to: • Attend classes and meetings when scheduled • Arrive to class on time • Keep cell phones, pagers, etc. out of sight and silenced • Refrain from using laptops/tablets for purposes other than taking notes • Parti cipate in discussions when appropriate • Turn in assignments on their assigned due date • Actively manage university -provided email account • Stay abreast of class announcements by reviewing the syllabus and eCourseware frequently Finally, and most importantly: All participants in the class should be considerate of the other class participants and treat them (as well as their opinions) with respect. The class will operate under the assumption that any and all feedback offered is positive in nature and that the intentions of the person(s) providing feedback are strictly honorable. Insensitivity in this area will not be tolerated. Student's Expectations Students can expect that the professor will adhere to the same basic expectations that the professor has for stud ents (see above). This includes timely attendance, timely responses to emails (usually within 24 hours), timely assignment feedback (usually before the next similar assignment), and respectful treatment. Grading and Evaluation Criteria Final Course Grades Grading is based on a straight curve, i.e., >90=A, >80=B, etc., although the professor reserves the right to curve the grading in exceptional circumstances. Points will be distributed as follows: Deliverable Total Points LinkedIn Participation 2 2 Current Events (each w/ 2 Replies) 12 Virtual Team Project: Team Project Plan (8 pts) Narrated Millennial Presentation (16 pts) Peer Reviews (2 @ 2 pts each) 28 Case Study Reports (6 @ 3 pts each) 18 Individual AHA! Paper 10 Two quizzes (15 pts each) 30 Total 100 points Course Deliverables Final grades will be based on the performance on the following course deliverables: Social Networking and Building a Digital Professional Brand with LinkedIn (2 points). In today’s business world, having a personal digital brand is expected, and LinkedIn is a great platform on which to build it. LinkedIn can be thought of as “the business professional’s Facebook,” and it provides a way to build an online network of associates, maintain a profession al presence for career development, and also provides a platform for group interaction via discussion groups. For this assignment, you will create (or if already created, improve ) your LinkedIn “brand” by developing an effective LinkedIn profile, experimen t with endorsing a few of your LinkedIn connections, and experiment with LinkedIn’s discussion group capability. Note that part of this assignment includes “connecting” with me (and I’d hope the rest of your classmates). Here are some basic steps to follo w: 1. If you do not already have an account on LinkedIn, set one up by going to linkedin.com. 2. Populate your profile to the extent that you feel comfortable (however, this needs to be more than just your name, photo, and where you’re currently working). There are many websites that describe how to create an effective LinkedIn profile. Just do a search on “effective LinkedIn profile” and you’ll be off to the races. 3. Find me on LinkedIn here, and request to “connect” with me. Tell me which class you’re in, e.g., EMBA 7650, Professional MBA 7650, etc. I know a lot of you, but I’m old and am easily confused. 4. I will then invite you to our class’s discussion group. 5. Once invited, go out to group’s site and begin participating by posting a few times by the assigned due date. These posts can be anything that interests you, and I’ve created a few categories for you to choose from, or feel free to create a new category. Feel free to post to the se discussions throughout the semester if you’d like. 6. Connect with a few of your classmates (more is better). If you can, endorse at least a couple of them for the skills they have. All students wishing to gain full credit will be expected to have a good p rofile, connect with me, and post at least 3 posts to our discussion groups by the due date. Cautionary Note: LinkedIn.com is a worldwide networking site where personal information about each user is shared. Each user decides how much personal informatio n from their profile is shared, and with whom it is shared. For this course, it is up to each student to decide how much information is shared publicly on LinkedIn.com, but at a minimum you should include your educational background and a picture of yours elf. Online Current Events with Replies (12 points towards final grade). Each student will post two “current events” on eCourseware by the assigned due date, and will also respond to two of your fellow classmate’s current events. Current events should ei ther: 1) highlight how organizations are using information technology in new and/or innovative ways, or 2) should introduce a potentially important emerging technology. Students will post their current events (in the Discussions section) by the scheduled d ue date, and will receive up to 3 points for their post. A full -credit current event post will include: 1) a descriptive title, 2) a link to a URL of a video which describes, demonstrates, or shows the technology event or shows the technology in action, a nd 3) a link to a short (5 -minute) video of your synopsis of the article, along with your personal opinion on the business implications of the article. Your video should either be in the form of an unlisted (i.e., private) YouTube video or a Vimeo video. Both of these platforms allow for the free uploading of videos. Helpful hint: Technology -related current events are usually generated by first reading an article or post from current issues of business periodicals/websites, e.g., BusinessWeek, FORTUNE, th e Wall Street Journal, The Economist, etc., or technology periodicals/websites, e.g., ComputerWorld, CNet, CIO, etc. You can also usually find specific technologies of interest to you by doing a web search of the industry you’re interested in (e.g., “heal thcare”) and “technology” and “innovation,” or something similar. After the current event due date, students will then have one week to post two thoughtful, written responses to their classmates’ current event posts. The maximum grade will be 1 point per reply post. These are very easy points to earn so do not forget to post and reply by the due dates indicated on the syllabus! Note: If a fellow classmate’s current event has three replies already posted to their current event, you must find another classm ate’s current event to reply to. Virtual Team Project (28 points toward final grade). For this project, students will read Tapscott’s Grown Up Digital and then work collaboratively in 4 -5 person virtual teams (assigned by me) utilizing various online col laboration tools to complete a 3 -part project. Virtual Team Collaboration The fact that these are virtual teams implies that you will not work together in a face -to-face manner, but instead will work online. The required collaboration tools you will use i nclude: • Google Docs (or “Drive” as it’s now called) – for document creation and editing. Note: do not use Word and then upload .doc files to Google Drive. Do your work completely in Google Drive (you’ll thank me later) • Google Drive’s “discussion” feature – for real -time chatting while working synchronously (at the same time) on your Google documents with your teammates • Google Drive’s “comment” feature – for non -real -time communication when working on your Google documents asynchronously, i.e., not at the s ame time • Google+ “hangouts” – for video conferencing (Note: you will need access to a PC webcam and microphone for this) • Email (only to the extent that Google Docs uses email to notify teammates that the document has been revised, etc.) Before you embark on the project, make sure that your entire team has access to your Google Drive site ( ). If you are new to Google Drive, you can find introductory help here . If you are new to Google+, you will need to be invited to join G+ by an existing G+ member (usually someone on your team, but I can invite you if necessary). You can find more Google+ help here . Sharing Documents with Google Drive Google Drive will be the document -sharing platform used by your team throughout the project. Each team will then create and share all materia ls (documents, Gantt charts, etc.) with the Google Drive applications. All written documents will be created as Google Drive “Documents,” and the project plan Gantt chart will be created as a Google Drive “Spreadsheet.” Each team member should familiarize themselves with these easy -to-use applications. Here are some good tutorials to get you started: Good introduction to using Google Docs: How to open a Google account without a Gmail account: How to share documents in Google Docs: Team Project Part 1: Project Plan (8 points). For the first phase of the project, your team will create a project plan outlining the activities, responsibilities, and due dates required for this class project. The project plan will be in the form of a simpl e Gantt chart, using a Google Docs spreadsheet. Here is a sample to let you know what I’m looking for (see Chapter 14 for more information on Gantt charts): On the assigned due date, one member of your team will download the Google Docs spreadsheet as an Excel (.xls) file (click on “File,” and then “Download as”), and then upload this file to the eCourseware Dropbox. Team Project Part 2: The Millennial Presentation (16 points). For the second phase of the project, your team will read Donald Tapscott’s , Grown Up Digital, and then develop a narrated PowerPoint presentation that will be uploaded to YouTube. Your presentation should outline a set of recommended HR policies/guidelines that organizations should consider to attract and retain candidate emplo yees from the Net Generation to their companies. These guidelines should include how a company might target and recruit NetGen candidates, how they should set up work scheduling rules, what kinds of technologies should be provided to employees, etc. In a ddition, the team should consider how the existing, more traditional workforce might view these new guidelines, and should therefore provide guidance as to how local companies should manage a multi -generational workforce. The deliverable for the project i s the URL to the “unlisted” YouTube presentation. The URL will be posted on the Discussion Board on eCourseware. The presentation should be approximately 15 minutes in length, and should not exceed 20, or be less than 10 minutes in length. Again, only on e member of your team should upload the assignment. The initial development of the PowerPoint presentation should be done within Google Drive’s “Presentation” platform. Here, your team can collaborate in real time in developing most of the content of the p resentation (due to its ease of online collaboration). Once that is done, your team can download the presentation as a “.pptx” file so that final narration can be added and conversion to a video format (most likely .mov or .mp4) can be accomplished prior to uploading to YouTube (upload the video as an “unlisted” video). There are several no -cost ways to create a narrated PowerPoint presentation suitable for YouTube, including doing it all from within PowerPoint (you need a fairly current version), or usin g SlideShare ( ). Several tutorials can be found on YouTube to help you if you are new to this. Helpful Hint: Here is how you might use a recent version of PowerPoint to get the job done i n a professional manner (Please note that you will need a microphone in order to complete Step 2 below.): 1. Develop your presentation as a ".pptx" file in PowerPoint. 2. In PowerPoint 2013 under slide show, you can click on "Record slide show" to begin recordi ng (either from the beginning of the presentation or from that particular slide). Once you are done with the voice recording for a slide, you can hit the space bar to stop recording and move on to the next slide. 3. Once you are done with the voice -over, you can convert/save the file as an MP4 File (.mp4). 4. Once you have completed step 4, you are ready to upload to YouTube. 5. After signing into YouTube, you will be prompted to select the file to upload. You also have the option from this view to change the priv acy setting from "public" or "private" to "unlisted." If you do not change the privacy setting on this screen, I believe you are given another chance on the subsequent screen to change the video to "unlisted." 6. Your video will show a processing bar at the top while it is uploading, and toward the left side of the screen you will see the URL below the following message "Your video will be live at:” This will be your URL for the deliverable. 7. Hit "Done" once the upload has processed and your URL is live and ready to go. You may want to ensure that the video was uploaded as an "unlisted" video as a final step. 8. If you do not have a newer version of PowerPoint, you can try to accomplish the same goal. Presentation Grading Criteria: The grading will be based on the quality of the content, the evidence of creative and innovative thought, the quality and professionalism of the “look, sound, and feel” of the finished product, and the adherence to ti me constraints. Peer Reviews (2 points each). In order to help motivate all team members to fully engage in team activities, each student will be required to complete three peer review surveys assessing each team member’s contribution to the group’s proje cts. These surveys will be made available at two times during semester, and will only be open for four days, so don’t miss these easy points! IMPORTANT: The evaluations you receive from your teammates will factor heavily into your project grades, so it is in your best interest to be an active member of your project team! Case Study Reports (3 points each, 18 points total towards final grade). In order to give you an opportunity to integrate your thinking from the lectures, textbook, and your personal bus iness knowledge, six case studies will be assigned from the text that you will read and then provide your individual analysis. Your analysis will be in the form of responses to the first three questions found at the end of each case study. Each report will be no longer than 500 words in length, and will be uploaded as a single Microsoft Word document (.doc or .docx) to the course “Dropbox” on the published due date. Individual AHA! Paper (10 points toward final grade). Hopefully throughout the semester, students will occasionally gain deeper learning/insights that they will find especially useful in their personal or professional lives. I call these kinds of insights “AHA’s! because they oft en occur to us seemingly out of nowhere. These AHA’s! are not usually fact -based pieces of information, but are usually integrative ideas about how to apply IT in personal professional lives, how to interact with others, or perhaps to how to be more effect ive in your endeavors. To this end, every week or so (or more often if the student prefers), each student should think deeply (i.e., reflect) on their thoughts and sentiments as it relates to the course (e.g., principles discussed, technologies used in the course, online vs. traditional learning, personal experiences from the course or team project, etc.), and write down their thoughts that might be “AHA! -worthy.” This “journaling” could take the form of a private blog on the eCourseware site, or could be documented in another application, or even hand -written on paper. For this assignment, students will review their blog entries from throughout the semester and will use that information as the starter set to identify their five (5) best/most useful AHA’s! Each AHA! will be approximately 500 words in length, and the final 2500 -word paper will be uploaded as a single Microsoft Word document (.doc or .docx) to the course “Dropbox” on the published due date. Quizzes (15 points each towards final grade). Two online quizzes will be given during the semester to give you an opportunity to earn points for your content knowledge of the textbook and online lectures (see schedule). The format is objective in nature, e.g., short answer, T/F, multiple choice, etc., an d they are timed. While the quizzes are open note/book tests, the time constraints will require that you prepare as if the tests were closed note/book, i.e., you will not have time to look -up many answers. Final Exam Schedule There will not be a final e xam for this course. Courses that do have final exams will schedule them according to the Registrar's Academic Calendar website . Course Policies Email I will send all official course email correspondence to the students' "@memphis.edu" email account. Therefore, it is the student's responsibility to actively manage this email account. This includes ensuring that email messages are read, and that the mailbox is managed, e .g., no "mailbox is full" issues. It is completely acceptable for students to forward their memphis.edu email to another email system they prefer, as long as they check it regularly. Attendance It is recommended that students attend all course meetin gs. Please inform the professor ahead of time if you are unable to do so. Academic Integrity Please refer to the FCBE website on academic integrity (New Window) for expectations regarding academic integrity. Students are also urged to review the Universi ty's Office of Student Conduct website (New Window) to better understand potential consequences of not acting in ways consistent with these expectations. Late Assignments Late assignments are not accepted. Extra Credit There is no extra credit in this co urse. Please focus your efforts on gaining maximum credit in the assignments offered. Inclement Weather Should weather interfere with the course, the instructor will announce any accommodations that need to be made. Syllabus Changes In rare instances, th e syllabus may have to be changed. It is more likely that assignment dates may need to change. In either case, the instructor will announce these changes on eCourseware and they will be done in such a way as to not penalize the student, e.g., due dates wil l not be moved up, unless sufficient and reasonable notice is given. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services (New Window) page for information about: • Students with Disabilities • Tutoring and other Academic Assistance • Advising Services for Fogelman Students • Technical Assistance !