#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/Univ_college/nonprofit.php
Non-profit Development and Administration - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Non-profit Development and Administration Non-Profit Development and Administration The goal of these guidelines is to help persons understand the role of nonprofit organizations in society and to prepare them to organize, develop, and administer nonprofit organizations. Nonprofit organizations include educational, scientific, religious, and other charitable organizations, as well as private foundations, community-based organizations, professional and fraternal associations, and civic and social organizations. The guidelines are designed to serve persons who have worked, or who want to work, within the nonprofit sector as employees, or have served in the community as volunteers. Graduates may enter careers such as communications director, volunteer director, or program director for a nonprofit agency. Objectives of the program include the study of (1) the historical and cultural context of nonprofit organizations, specifically their place within a market economy; (2) the characteristics of persons and communities served by nonprofit organizations; (3) legal, ethical, and policy issues which shape the governance, development, and operation of nonprofits; (4) relevant skills, including management of personnel, information, and finances, interpersonal communication, program evaluation, and marketing; and (5) special topics, including fundraising, philanthropy and volunteerism. Program Summary A. General Education (35-41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. Students who have completed one year of American History in high school are exempted from the six credit-hour History General Education Program requirement; otherwise, students will have to meet the History requirement. B. Coordinated Study (60 hours) Core Courses (15 hours) take each course ANTH 4412 Neighborhood Development and Poverty or ANTH 3282 Cultural History of American Communities ECON 3411 Economics of Social Issues MGMT 3110 Organization and Management PADM 3601 Public Administration PADM 4226 Introduction to Nonprofit Organizations Context Courses Historical Context (take one course): HIST 3274 Modern Islamic World HIST 3275 History of the Jewish People HIST 3881 African-American History HIST 4831 History of American Family HIST 4851 History of Women in America HIST 4863 History of Childhood in America HIST 4871 United States Urban History Social, Political, Economic Context (take 3 courses from at least two different disciplines) ANTH 4411 Urban Anthropology CJUS 1100 Introduction to Criminal Justice COMM 4381 Rhetoric and Public Controversy COUN 4611 Introduction to Counseling COUN 4781 Strategies for Crisis Intervention COUN 4783 Alcohol and Drug Abuse Counseling ECON 2010 Introduction to Macroeconomics PHIL 3511 Ethics POLS 3211 State and Local Government POLS 3213 Introduction to the Study of Public Policy POLS 4222 Urban Politics POLS 4224 Issues/Urban Politics SOCI 3401 Social Inequality SOCI 3422 Racial and Ethnic Minorities: A Soci-Historical Approach SOCI 4442 Sociology of Poverty SOCI 4541 Sociology of Aging Nonprofit Work Setting : (take one course) ANTH 4253 Anthropology of Religion ARTH 4382 Professional Practices in Museums ARTH 4830 Museums in Society ESCI 3451 Introduction to Urban Planning POLS 4221 Urban Administration SLS 3103 Outdoor Recreation and Education for Urban America SLS 3205 Area and Facility Management SLS 3905 Leisure and Recreation for People with Disabilities SOCI 3860 Sociology of Religion Skills for Administration &amp; Community Development: (21 hours) take one course from each category Marketing &amp; Fund-raising: (take one course) FIR 4011 Estate Planning and Law of Taxation JOUR 3400 Public Relations MKTG 3010 Principles of Marketing MKTG 4230 Services Marketing Human Resources: ( take one course) COUN 4621 Human Interactions MGMT 3215 Human Resource Management SLS 3204 Organizational Analysis of Sport and Leisure Program Evaluation: (take one course) ANTH 4010 Anthropological Methods of Field Research COMM 3330 Communication Research Methods PADM 4101 Political Statistics SLS 3305 Leisure and Recreation Program Development SOCI 3311 Social Statistics SOCI 3322 Methods of Social Research Accounting: (take one course) ACCT 2010 Fundamentals of Accounting I ACCT 2020 Fundamentals of Accounting II ACCT 3310 Cost Accounting ACCT 4540 Governmental/Health Care/ Not-for-Profit Accounting PADM 4227 Issues in Nonprofit Administration SLS 3605 Financial Management in Sport and Leisure Legal Environment: (take one course) ACCT 3011 Business Law LEGL 2410 Legal Ethics POLS 3405 Introduction to Law and Jurisprudence SLS 4205 Legal and Ethical Aspects of Sport and Leisure Communication: ( take one course) COMM 4011 Communication in Organizations COMM 4342 Small Group Communication COMM 4373 Interracial Communication COMM 4375 Intercultural Communication ENGL 3601 Technical and Professional Writing ENGL 3604 Persuasive Writing MGMT 3510 Business Communications Computer Use &amp; Technology: (take one course) JOUR 3900 Visual Journalism MIS 2749 Foundation/Information Systems SLS 3005 Computer Applications in Sport and Leisure Experiential Learning or Internship: (6 hours) any 6 hours from PADM 4321 Administrative Internship UNIV 3900 Advanced Experiential Learning (See: ) UNIV 4110 Internship C . Thematic Studies (6 hours) D. Senior Project (3 hours) UNIV 4995 Senior Project (completed during the final semester) E. Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120 with a minimum of 42 upper-division hours. College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .