#http://www.memphis.edu/egypt/teaching/maprospective.php
M.A. in Egyptian Art - Prospective Students - Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology About Location Teaching Staff Research Exhibition Events Resources Degree Programs in Egyptology Prospective Students Graduate Undergraduate Current M.A. Students Alumni Home Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology Teaching M.A. in Egyptian Art - Prospective Students M.A. in Egyptian Art - Prospective Students This web page contains information about the Master of Arts degree in Art History with a concentration in Egyptian Art and Archaeology which is offered by the Department of Art. Click here for information about the graduate Egyptology program in the History Department. To ensure that your computer displays the latest update, click on the 'Refresh' or 'Reload' button at the top of your screen. What can our program do for you? The Master's degree program in Art History with a concentration in Egyptian Art and Archaeology is designed to prepare the student either to continue on to a higher degree in Egyptology or to enter an alternate career path. Whichever the student's choice, the program will assist the student in developing strong skills in analytical thinking, research and writing. Egyptology students with the M.A. degree in Art History from the University of Memphis have continued on to graduate programs in ancient Egyptian art, history, archaeology, and language at such distinguished institutions as New York University, the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Chicago, UCLA, Emory University, the University of Toronto (Canada) and University College, London. Other of our students have enrolled in programs in related fields such as religious studies, ancient history and museum studies. Graduates have also found internships or employment in secondary education, field archaeology, and museums. For information about past students of the M.A. program in Egyptian Art, see the Alumni page. Description of the Master's Program in Art History The Master of Arts in Art History with a concentration in Egyptian Art and Archaeology is a rigorous two year program. The student must maintain a minimum 3.0 GPA ("B" average) to remain in good standing in the program. At the University of Memphis, students who register for 9 or more hours per semester in the academic year are considered full-time students. University-funded graduate assistants must register for no fewer than 9 hours credit per semester (or 6 thesis/dissertation hours). Students are required to meet with the Program Advisor before registering for each semester's coursework. The Program Advisor must clear each student prior to registration. Dr. Lorelei H. Corcoran is the program advisor. Art History Program Requirements The two-year Masters program in Art History includes the following requirements - 30 hours of completed coursework A minimum of 21 hours (7 classes) must be in 7000 level (M.A.) courses Only three (3) * of these hours may be thesis credits (ARTH 7996). Six (6) credit-hours may be from outside the major department (ARTH). Eighteen (18) hours (6 classes) must be in the major area (ARTH), but outside of the required courses (ARTH 6123, ARTH 7130, and ARTH 7996). The student must maintain a minimum 3.0 GPA ("B" average) to remain in good standing in the program. Fulfill all University of Memphis mandated course requirements and regulations. Read the official wording in the Graduate Catalog. Additional Requirements of the Masters Program in Art History - Egyptian Art Concentration Successful completion of the program requires that the student fulfill a number of requirements. These include: Completion of two (2) departmental core courses - ARTH* 6123 - Greek Art ARTH 7130 - Art History Methods and Professional Practice Satisfactory completion of at least two semesters of ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs Passing a competency exam in Middle Egyptian hieroglyphs before the start of the second semester Passing a slide exam on ancient Egyptian art before the start of the second semester One semester of either ARTH 6111 (Art and Archaeology of Ancient Egypt), ARTH 6112 (Art and Archaeology of the Old and Middle Kingdoms) or ARTH 6113 (Art and Archaeology of the New Kingdom through Later Periods) Passing a reading competency exam in either German or French by the end of the first year. Fulfill all University of Memphis mandated course requirements Select a Thesis Committee Chair by the end of the first year of study Successful completion of the Master's Thesis Passing a comprehensive examination after submission of the M.A. thesis to the Thesis Committee Successful defense of the comprehensive exam and the M.A. thesis * ARTH = Art History With the guidance of the program advisor, Dr. Lorelei Corcoran , students are responsible for meeting these requirements in a timely manner. For a more detailed explanation of this list, see the M.A. Requirements page. Egyptology or Degree-Related Classes Offered at The University of Memphis Primarily in the programs in Art History and History, the University of Memphis offers over two dozen courses relevant to the programs in Egyptology. Some of these courses may be taken by upper division undergraduate students, while others are reserved for graduate study. These listings were taken from the on-line undergraduate and graduate bulletins. Sample Two Year Schedule The degree in Egyptian Art and Archaeology affords the student the opportunity to tailor their program to their specific interests in Egyptology. The sample semester-by-semester schedule for the two year Master's Egyptology Program in Art History will help the student plan their course of instruction. The individual student's specific schedule will vary. Applying to Graduate School and the Program in Art History in the Department of Art at the University of Memphi s Main Page for the University of Memphis Graduate School Main Page for the 2015-2016 Graduate Catalog Graduate Admissions Web Page Admissions Regulations for the Graduate School Other Admission Regulations Links to General Information, Applications, Financial Aid and Admissions Categories For future students Graduate School Admissions Procedures How to Apply Graduate Catalog entry for the Art Department Master's Programs, including the M.A. in Art History Departmental M.A. requirements for admission and course descriptions Art Department web page for Master's Program in Art History Concise information on how to apply to the Masters program in Art History Graduate Assistantship Form is available as a PDF on this page History Department - Egyptology program Introduction to the Egyptology MA and PhD programs in the History Department History Department - Application Procedures web page Helpful advice on applying to the Graduate School at the University of Memphis Links for Out-of-State and International Applicants Academic Common Market (for residents of the Southeastern region) Students from nearby states that do not have Egyptology programs may be eligible for in-state tuition. Residency Classification Other Information (vaccinations, entrance exams, etc.) International Students Links to Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Resources at the University of Memphis University Fee Charts and Payment Tuition Estimator Financial Aid Home Page Graduate Student Assistantship Information Art Department Graduate Assistantship Form Web pages currently not working. Fellowships Federal Funding Scroll down to the bottom of the linked page to find the section on Federal funding. Applying for Federal Work-Study funding (FAFSA) All incoming graduate students are strongly encouraged to apply for Federal funding. You do not have to apply for Federal loans, but please check the box for Work-Study on your University of Memphis financial aid application. Calendars and Deadlines University of Memphis Academic Calendar 2013-2014 (Office of the Registrar) University-wide Semester Calendar (Office of the Registrar) Application to University of Memphis Graduate School Application deadlines are listed at the top of the web page. Note: Financial Aid deadlines are earlier. Degree Programs in Egyptology Prospective Students Graduate Undergraduate Current M.A. Students Alumni Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .