#http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/graduate/clinhealthpsy.php
Clinical Health Psychology - Department of Psychology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research Resources Graduate Clinical About the Program Clinical Faculty Child Clinical Clinical Health Psychology Psychotherapy Research Admission Clinical Student Handbook Clinical Forum Schedule Experimental About the Program Experimental Faculty Cognitive Behavioral Neuroscience Required Courses Admission Financial Support School About the Programs School Faculty Child &amp; Family Studies Research Group Historical Statement Financial Support M.S./Ph.D. Program Philosophy and Training Model M.S./Ph.D. Program Goals and Objectives Doctoral Handbook Resources and Information School Psychology Association M.A./Ed.S.Program Goals What is a School Psychologist Masters in General Psychology About the Program Program Goals Required Courses Admission Apply to Psychology Graduate Programs Instructions for Applying Department Application Graduate School Application Graduate Student Coordinating Committee About GSCC GSCC Concerns/Complaints GSCC Travel Funding Graduate Program Forms and Resources APA Required Disclosures Clinical Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data School Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data Home Department of Psychology Graduate Clinical Health Psychology Clinical Psychology Program - Clinical Health Concentration Leslie A. Robinson Director Phone: (901) 678-2630 Office: 348 This specialty area is housed within the Clinical Psychology Program. Health Psychology is broadly concerned with studying the intersection of psychology and health. This includes using psychological theories and intervention approaches to understand, prevent, and treat medical conditions and health-compromising behaviors. The Clinical Health Psychology faculty at the University of Memphis is primarily interested in studying risky health-related behaviors, with a special emphasis on addictive behaviors. Faculty interests range from laboratory studies that examine the basic decision making processes related to health risk and addictive behaviors (using cognitive, social learning, and behavioral economic models), to large scale epidemiology and prevention studies, to clinical trials evaluating treatments for a range of health-risk and addictive behaviors (e.g., alcohol, gambling, illicit drugs, obesity/sedentary behavior, tobacco). Promotion of healthful behaviors and evaluation of the psychosocial consequences of disease also receive serious attention. Please see the affiliated faculty web pages for more detailed information. Clinical Psychology students who specialize in Clinical Health Psychology complete all of the general Clinical Psychology coursework and training experiences. In addition to this strong generalist training, they receive supplemental specialized training in the research and practice of Clinical Health Psychology. This includes coursework related to the practice of psychology in medical settings, the effects of medical illness on cognitive and emotional functioning, theories and models of health behavior change, and empirically supported intervention approaches. Clinical Health Psychology students also complete clinical training in a variety of settings, including Veterans Affairs Medical Centers, University Health Care Centers, and Pediatric and Adult Cancer Hospitals/Clinics. In the same way, Clinical Health Psychology students have access to unique research experiences within the broader biomedical community in Memphis, which includes a medical school, several nursing schools, schools for other health care providers, and hospitals for both adults and children, including the internationally known St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. Within our own university, our students have the opportunity to access specialized training in our new School of Public Health, as well as in allied areas, such as health-care economics, health communication, and sport sciences. This specialty has a strong research emphasis and is well-suited to students who aspire to academic and/or medical setting positions as career goals. Funding is excellent for researchers trained in this area, and the job market for Clinical Health Psychologists is quite strong. Faculty Primary Affiliates Andrew W. Meyers, Ph.D. James G. Murphy, Ph.D. Leslie Robinson, Ph.D. James Whelan, Ph.D. Secondary Affiliates Kristoffer S. Berlin Ph.D. Robert Neimeyer, Ph.D. Meghan E. McDevitt-Murphy, Ph.D. Idia B. Thurston, Ph.D. Graduate Clinical About the Program Clinical Faculty Child Clinical Clinical Health Psychology Psychotherapy Research Admission Clinical Student Handbook Clinical Forum Schedule Experimental About the Program Experimental Faculty Cognitive Behavioral Neuroscience Required Courses Admission Financial Support School About the Programs School Faculty Child &amp; Family Studies Research Group Historical Statement Financial Support M.S./Ph.D. Program Philosophy and Training Model M.S./Ph.D. Program Goals and Objectives Doctoral Handbook Resources and Information School Psychology Association M.A./Ed.S.Program Goals What is a School Psychologist Masters in General Psychology About the Program Program Goals Required Courses Admission Apply to Psychology Graduate Programs Instructions for Applying Department Application Graduate School Application Graduate Student Coordinating Committee About GSCC GSCC Concerns/Complaints GSCC Travel Funding Graduate Program Forms and Resources APA Required Disclosures Clinical Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data School Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data Psychology Graduate Programs Application Click on link to Apply to the Department of Psychology Graduate Program The Psychological Services Center PSC provides general outpatient psychotherapeutic and psychological assessment services to individuals and families Teaching Take-Out This website is a resource for busy teachers who want to enrich their classes while preserving the time they need for research and other important professional activities. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .