#http://www.memphis.edu/msci/news/plenary.php
Plenary talks &amp;amps; lecture courses - Math Sciences - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Mathematical Sciences About People Undergraduate Graduate Research News News &amp; Events Departmental Calendar Academic Calendar Plenary Talks PRMO 2015 Conference 2015 AMS Conference Home Math Sciences News &amp; Events Plenary talks &amp;amps; lecture courses Plenary Talks &amp; Lecture Series The Faculty of the Department of Mathematical Sciences is actively involved in cutting edge research in the mathematical sciences. This is reflected by the several high-visibility, invited talks and course-lectures presented worldwide. Some of the key-note talks and lectures recently delivered/to be soon delivered by the DMS Faculty are listed below. Irena Lasiecka is one of the invited speakers at the XIV Workshop on Partial Differential Equations (XIV WPDE RIO2015), organized by the University of Rio de Janeiro and LNCC, held on Spetember 22-25, 2015, in Petropolis-RJ, Brasil. Her talk is on Local existence, global existence, and stability of solutions to quasilinear systems arising in fluid structure interactions. Visit the workshop's website . Roberto Triggiani is one of the invited speakers at the XIV Workshop on Partial Differential Equations (XIV WPDE RIO2015), organized by the University of Rio de Janeiro and LNCC, held on Spetember 22-25, 2015, in Petropolis-RJ, Brasil. His talk is on Heat-wave interaction in 2 or 3 dimensions: Optimal rational decay rate. Visit the workshop's website . Irena Lasiecka gave a plenary talk at the conference, Mathematical Fluid Mechanics: Old Problems and New Trends, held at the Banach Center, Polish Academy of Sciences, Bedlewo, Poland, August 30 - September 4, 2015. View the programme . Bentuo Zheng was one of the invited speakers at the Fifth International Conference on Analytic Mathematics and its Applicaions, August 12-16, 2015, at the Harbin University of Science and Technology, Harbin, China. View the list of invited speakers . Jerry Goldstein was one of the lecturers at the TULKKA-Treffen conference in Ulm, Germany, July 17, 2015. View the program schedule . Anna Kaminska was one of the main speakers at the conference, Function Spces XI, July 6-10, 2015, at Zielona Gora, Poland. The title of her lecture was "Banach envelopes of quasi-Banach spaces". View the conference website . Roberto Triggiani was one of the invited speakers at the conference, New Advances in PDEs: Inverse Problems and Control Theory, held at the University of Parma, Italy, July 6-10, 2015. View the workshop program . George Anastassiou delivered a plenary talk entitled "Fractional Monotone Approximations" at the Third International Conference on Applied Mathematics and Approximation Theory (AMAT 2015), May 28-31, 2015, in Ankara, Turkey. For more information, see this website . D. P. Dwiggins was an invited speaker at the Differential Equations and Dynamical Systems conference (DEDS 9), May 14-16, 2015, Dallas, Texas. The title of his talk was "Fixed Point Theory and Integral Equations". Visit the conference website . Irena Lasiecka was one of the main speakers at the BIO+FLUIDS in Warsaw Conference organized by Banach Center, Mathematics Institute, Polish Academy of Sciences April 27-29, 2015. See the website . Irena Lasiecka delivered one of the three keynote lectures at the Ninth IMACS International Conference on Nonlinear Evolution Equations and Wave Phenomena held at University of Georgia, Athens, GA April 1-4, 2015. See the website for details. Jerry Goldstein was one of the two main lecturers at the Besançon School on Evolution Equations and Applications, March 23-27, 2015, du Laboratoire de Mathématiques de Besançon, Université de Franche-Comté. View the workshop program . Irena Lasiecka was invited as one of the four plenary speakers at the 39-th SIAM SEAS Conference hosted by the University of Alabama, Birmingham, March 20-22, 2015. She will present a lecture entitled: "How to control flutter arising in flow structure interactions". See the attached poster . Roberto Triggiani gave a main talk entitled "Stabilization to an equilibrium of the 2d-, 3d- Navier-Stokes equations by "tangential" feedback controls with arbitrarily small support", at the Shanks workshop 2015, Vanderbilt University, Feb 27-28. See the conference webpage . Irena Lasiecka gave a main talk entitled "Construction of global solutions to a 3-D fluid structure interactions with moving interface", at the Shanks workshop 2015, Vanderbilt University, Feb 27-28. See the conference webpage . Jerry Goldstein gave a plenary lecture "Asymptotic equipartition of energy for non autonomous wave equations" at the ICMC Summer meeting on Differential Equations, 2015 Chapter, at the Univ. Of São Paulo at Sao Carlos, in Sao Carlos, Brazil on February 4, 2015. Robert Kozma was one of the main lecturers at the X IEEE Latin-American Summer School on Computational Intelligence (EVIC 2014), December 15-18, 2014, Universidad de Chile, Sanitago. Visit the website . Paul Balister gave keynote lecture on “Minimal symmetric differences of lines in projective planes” at the 3rd annual Mississippi Discrete Mathematics Workshop, Nov 15 - 16, 2014. See the conference webpage . Ralph Faudree was invited to give a plenary lecture at VII CRACOW CONFERENCE ON GRAPH THEORY, to be held at Cracow, Poland, September 14-19, 2014. See the conference webpage and the poster . Gisele Goldstein was one of the main speakers at the XIXth Symposium on Trends in Applications of Mathematics to Mechanics” at the University of Poitiers September 8-11, 2014.See the conference webpage . Irena Lasiecka gave a plenary lecture at the XV INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON HYPERBOLIC PROBLEMS (HYP2014 in Rio), to be held at IMPA, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, July 28-August 1, 2014. See the conference webpage and the poster . Irena Lasiecka gave a plenary lecture entitled: "Quasilinear dynamics arising in a 3-D fluid-structure interaction with moving interface", at the CONFERENCE on PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS, to be held at the Monastery Novacella, Alto Adige, Italy, May 28- June 1, 2014. See the conference webpage and the poster . Roberto Triggiani gave a plenary lecture entitled: "Global uniqueness and stability of an inverse problem for the Schrodinger equation on a Riemannian manifold via only one boundary measurement", at the Conference RECENT TRENDS IN NONLINEAR PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS AND APPLICATIONS, to be held at the Mathematics Institute, University of Trieste, Italy, May 28-30, 2014. The Conference is dedicated to the 60th birthday of Enzo Mitidieri. See the conference webpage . Anna Kaminska gave a plenary talk entitled "Dual spaces of Orlicz-Lorentz spaces" at the 7-th CONFERENCE ON FUNCTION SPACES held at the Southern Illinois Univeristy Edvardsville (SIUE) , May 20-24, 2014. See the conference program . Paul Balister gave a plenary lecture entitled: "Subcritical Bootstrap Percolation", at the ERDOS 101 CONFERENCE, held at the University of Memphis, March 27-29, 2014. See the conference webpage and the poster . Mate Wierdl gave a plenary lecture entitled: "Random differences of arithmetic progressions in sets of positive density", at the ERDOS 101 CONFERENCE, held at the University of Memphis, March 27-29, 2014. See the conference webpage and the poster . Bela Bollobas gave a plenary lecture entitled: “Neighbourhood Family Percolation”, at the MIKI SIMONOVIT IS 70 - MEETING: A CELEBRATION WITH LECTURES, held in Budapest, Hungary, January 3-4, 2014. See the conference webpage . Jim Jamison gave a plenary lecture entitled: "Hermitian Operators on some spaces of vector valued analytic functions", at the XXIVth INTERNATIONAL WORKSHOP OF OPERATOR THEORY AND ITS APPLICATIONS (IWOTA-2013), held at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, on December 16-20, 2013. The conference was in hornor of Israel Gohberg. See the conference webpage and the poster . Irena Lasiecka delivered a Bold Aspirations Ellis B.Stouffer Distinguished Lecture entitled: "Long time behavior of solutions to flow-structure interactions arising in modeling of subsonic and supersonic gas flows", at the University of Kansas, Lawrence, December 3, 2013. See the conference webpage and the poster. Jerry Goldstein gave a plenary lecture entitled: "Some biased remarks on the development of semigroups of operators" at the Conference SEMIGROUPS OF OPERATORS: THEORY AND APPLICATIONS, held at the Banach Center, Bedlewo, Poland, on October 6-11, 2013. The Conference was dedicated to the 80th birthday of Jan Kisynski. See the conference webpage and the poster . Roberto Triggiani gave a plenary lecture entitled: "Optimal polynomial decay of fluid-structure interaction via interplay between semigroup theory and micro-local analysis", at the Conference SEMIGROUPS OF OPERATORS: THEORY AND APPLICATIONS, held at the Banach Center, Bedlewo, Poland, on October 6-11, 2013. The Conference was dedicated to the 80th birthday of Jan Kisynski. See the conference webpage and the poster . Roberto Triggiani delivered a week-course of 6 lectures entitled: "Uniqueness and Stability in Inverse Problems for 2nd Order Hyperbolic and Petrowski-type Partial Differential Equations via Carleman Estimates", at the XXXVIII SUMMER SCHOOL ON MATHEMATICAL PHYSICS, held at Ravello, Italy, September 16-28, 2013. See the conference webpage . Bela Bollobas was a Special Invited Speaker and delivered Special Opening Lecture entitled "Bootstrap percolation -- critical probability and speed”, at the 16TH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON RANDOM STRUCTURES AND ALGORITHMS, held in Poznan, Poland, 5-9 August, 2013. See the conference webpage . Bela Bollobas delivered a plenary lecture at the 70th Birthday Conference in his honor, held at the University of Cambridge, UK, July 31 – August 4, 2013. News &amp; Events Departmental Calendar Academic Calendar Plenary Talks PRMO 2015 Conference 2015 AMS Conference Contact Us How to contact us, and whom to contact about what. Student FAQ Student resources for advising, tutoring, and registering for classes. ALEKS Information on the ALEKS computerized placement test. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .