#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/pdfs/hiad-guide.pdf
1 A Guide to Applying to HIAD Programs Y our Goals and HIAD First, applying to graduate school is a big step in your career. You need to be clear about your goals and how own goals or what the program can help you achieve, meet with one of the HIAD faculty below depending on your interests: Dr. Donna Menke djmenke@memphis.edu Dr. Mitsunori Misawa Adult Education /Leadersh ip mmisawa@memphis.edu Dr. Jeffery Wilson Higher Education /Student Personnel jlwlson4@memphis.edu & Community College Certificate Please note that admission to the HIAD programs is highly competitive . The Graduate Record Examination Second, take the GRE exam. Be sure to prepare for the exam, since studying for the exam has been proven to improve your score. Take it seriously, si nce the GRE is an important indicator that you will be successful in g raduate school. Check out this site for help understanding the GRE: (This site explains the GRE and contains some prepara tion materials to help you study.) Be sure to take the writing analysis portion of the GRE. We use this score to help evaluate your application. The doctorate especially is a writing intensive degree and your ability to write clearly is extremely impor tant. In the past, the average GRE score for students admitted to HIAD programs was: Masters degree 291 (combined verbal and quantitative) Doctoral degree 297 (combined verbal and quantitative ) We prefer a writing score of 4. 0 or better. Transcripts Third, order transcripts from all of the institut ions you attended in the past and send to Graduate School. Send a copy of the transcripts (these can be unofficial transcripts) to HIAD Admissions Committee at hiad@memphis.edu Goals Statement Fourth, take time to prepare a thorough and thoughtful goals statement. In this statement, we are evaluating your writing ability as well as whether your goals can be met by the pro gram. W e want to make sure the program is a good match for you. Be sure to indicate which of the concentrations you are interested in: the education and adult education). Check out the detailed information about each program (go to and follow the links). 2 Letters of Recommendation Fifth, we require three letters of recommendation. At least two of your recommendation letters must be written by faculty you have had earlier in your academic career . They are the best persons to judge your suitability for graduate study. One other letter may be from your supervisor or other professional contact. Personal evaluations (e.g., ministers, friends, neighbors) are not appropriate for applying to graduate school. L etters can be mailed to Higher and Adult Education program, Attn: HIAD Admissions Committee, University of Memphi s, 3 08 Browning, Memphis, TN 38152 or email them to HIAD @memphis.edu . Apply Online Sixth, be sure you follow the University of Memphis application procedures ( ). The application process is now online. Stay in Touch Seventh, contact our program at (901) 678 - 2775 to make sure we know you are working on an application. Deadlines Eighth, the deadlines for admission to HIAD programs are November 1 and April 1 for each year. I ncomplete application s will not be considered . Please note that our deadlines are earlier than those for the Graduate School; this was done so that we can review and process admissions in time so t hat accepted students can enroll in courses for the next term. Transfer Credits From the University of Memphis Graduate Catal Credit towards a graduate degree does not transfer automatically. In general, however, graduate work completed at another institution in a program accredited at the graduate level may be accepted in a graduate degree program at the University, with t he following provisions. (1) These courses have not been used to earn a previous degree. (2) They relate to the content of the graduate program and/or are comparable to those offered at the University. (3) They do not exceed time limitations set for master Last Update: 9/5 /13 , Katrina Meyer 6/ 3/14, Courtney Orians 8/26 /14, Courtney Orians