#http://www.memphis.edu/benefits/info/departing.php
Information for Departing Employees - University Benefits Administration - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Benefits Administration Staff Directory Benefits Information Related Resources &amp; Links Human Resources Benefits Information Prospective Employees New Faculty New Staff Current Employees Departing Employees Retiring Employees Home University Benefits Administration Benefits Information Information for Departing Employees Information for Departing Employees This web page contains general information; if you would like to discuss your personal situation, please contact University Benefits Administration at 901.678.3573 or visit us in 165 Administration Building prior to your last day of employment. PLEASE NOTE: It is important to provide the University of Memphis with your forwarding address to ensure you receive your COBRA notification, W-2, and other information. Please notify HR Records Management or University Benefits Administration with this information. Accrued Leave Transfers to Another State of Tennessee Agency Insurance Benefits Retirement Important Numbers Related Resources and Links Questions/Comments Accrued Leave Annual Leave: You will be paid for any accumulated but unused annual leave unless terminated for gross misconduct or payment of annual leave is excluded by your contract agreement (ex. contract coaches, grant funding exhausted). It will be paid as a lump sum on your last regular paycheck. Retiring employees have a choice of a lump sum payment or remaining on the payroll to exhaust all annual leave. A University Clearance and Separation Form must be processed to initiate leave payment. Sick Leave: A record of accumulated sick leave is maintained by the University and may be reinstated if you return to employment with the State of Tennessee. Transfers to Another State of Tennessee Agency Annual and Sick Leave: If you are transferring employment to another State of Tennessee Agency (such as Southwest TN Community College, UT, or Department of Transportation) your unused annual and sick leave balances will transfer to the new agency. Longevity: Your longevity date will be calculated by the new agency and may not be affected if there is no break in service. Insurance: If you have a break of employment of less than 60 days, your insurance benefits (health, life and dental) will remain as is. You will not be considered a newly eligible benefits employee at the new State agency; therefore, you will not be able to change health, life, or dental plan coverages at that time. Retirement: If you are in the Optional Retirement Plan (ORP) and transfer to another institution of higher education, you must remain in the ORP. If you transfer to another State agency not in higher education, you will join the Tennessee Consolidated Retirement System (TCRS). Insurance Benefits Health, Basic Life, Dental: Insurance premiums are paid a month in advance for coverage. For example, if you receive your last insurance paycheck (second biweekly check or last regular monthly check) in March, your coverage will end April 30. You should verify the date your coverage ends with a University Benefits Administration representative. COBRA: COBRA is a federal law that allows eligible employees and/or dependents to continue their health and dental coverage for a specified period of time. As an active employee the State was paying 80% of your health insurance premium. If you elect COBRA coverage you will be responsible for 100% of the premium plus a 2% administrative charge. If eligible, the State of Tennessee Benefits Administration will mail a COBRA notification letter to your home address within 30 days from your coverage termination date. You will have 60 days from the date of the letter to elect to continue your coverage under COBRA. Please see the COBRA brochure for more details. HIPAA: In compliance with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, the State of Tennessee Benefits Administration (BA) will mail a Certificate of Coverage to your home address if covered by health insurance at the time you leave the University. The Certificate of Coverage provides insurance coverage information for you and your dependents. Please keep this certificate for your records. You may be required to provide a copy when applying for new health insurance coverage. Please contact BA at 1-800-253-9981 or the University Benefits Administration office if you have any questions. Life Insurance: You may convert your basic term life insurance to an individual whole life policy through Dearborn National Life Insurance Company. This must be done within 30 days of the termination of coverage; Dearborn National will mail to your home address the conversion options. If you have optional term life with Minnesota Life, or universal life with UNUM, they will notify you by mail at your home address of your continuation options. If you are enrolled in the Permaplan life insurance program, you will also be notified of your options. Retirement Tennessee Consolidated Retirement System (TCRS): If you are enrolled in TCRS, you must have five (5) or more years of service in order to be eligible for a monthly benefit as early as age 55. Please review your TCRS handbook for details. For employees hired on or after July 1, 1981 all retirement contributions have been made by the University; therefore, no refund is available upon separation from the University. Optional Retirement Program (ORP): If you are enrolled in the Optional Retirement Program, the University has been contributing an amount equal to 10% of your monthly salary to ING, VALIC, and/or TIAA-CREF. These contributions are fully vested and you may have refund options. You should contact the companies for additional information. Important Numbers: University Benefits Administration Office : 901.678.3573 Employee Records Management Office : 901.678.2900 State of Tennessee Benefits Administration : 1.800.253.9981 Dearborn National Life Insurance Company: 1.800.348.4512 Minnesota Life : 1.866.881.0631 UNUM : 1.866.298.7636 Tennessee Consolidated Retirement System (TCRS): 1.800.770.8277 TIAA-CREF : 1.800.842.2888 Voya (formerly ING): Calvin Reid 901.496.2741 or 1.800.262.3862 VALIC : Scot Brothers 901.755.9277 or 1.800.892.5558 Benefits Information Prospective Employees New Faculty New Staff Current Employees Departing Employees Retiring Employees Tiger Perks Exclusive discounts offered to UofM employees Affordable Care Act Important information related to the Affordable Care Act Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .