#http://www.memphis.edu/egypt/arthistoryma/
Current Art History MA Students - Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology About Location Teaching Staff Research Exhibition Events Resources Art History MA Program Requirements Relevant Courses Sample Two-Year Schedule University Web Pages Addition Program Information Home Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology Current Art History MA Students Current Art History M.A. Students Below is information about the steps necessary to successfully complete the Master of Arts degree in Art History with a concentration in Egyptian Art and Archaeology offered by the Department of Art. Click here for information about the graduate Egyptology program in the History Department. To ensure that your computer displays the latest update, click on the 'Refresh' or 'Reload' button at the top of your screen. Description of the Master's Program in Art History, Egyptian Art Concentration The Master of Arts in Art History with a concentration in Egyptian Art and Archaeology is a rigorous two-year program. Coursework covers topics in the art, language and archaeology of ancient Egypt, as well as art historical method and theory. The student must maintain a minimum 3.0 GPA ("B" average) to remain in good standing in the program 9 credit hours per semester is a full-time graduate course load at the University of Memphis. Students are required to meet with the concentration advisor (Dr. Lorelei Corcoran for Egyptian art) before registering each semester. The advisor will then clear the student for registration. If a student in the concentration Egyptian Art and Archaeology has a Graduate Assistantship, a minimum GPA of 3.4 is required to maintain the assistantship. Faculty There are four Art History faculty and staff who regularly teach courses on ancient Egyptian subjects Dr. Lorelei Corcoran is the faculty advisor for the concentration in Egyptian Art and Archaeology and leads advanced seminars on various topics related to the art of ancient Egypt. She is Professor of Art History in the Department of Art and Director of the Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology at the University of Memphis. Dr. Joshua Roberson is Assistant Professor of Art History. He teaches ancient Egyptian language and seminars on ancient Egyptian art. Dr. Patricia Podzorski is Curator of the Egyptian Collection and teaches courses on Egyptian art as well as museum studies. Dr. Fred Albertson , Associate Professor of Art History, teaches Greek and Roman art. In the Department of History, courses on the history of ancient Egypt and Nubia are taught by Dr. Peter Brand and Dr. Suzanne Onstine. Departmental Requirements The two-year Masters program in Art History includes the following requirements - 30 hours of completed coursework A minimum of 21 hours (7 classes) must be in 7000 level (M.A.) courses Only three (3) * of these hours may be thesis credits (ARTH 7996). Six (6) credit-hours may be from outside the major department (ARTH). Eighteen (18) hours (6 classes) must be in the major area (ARTH), but outside of the required courses (ARTH 6123, ARTH 7130, and ARTH 7996). Click here for the complete listing of requirements . * The student may take more than three thesis units, but only three will count toward the 21-hour total for 7000 level courses. Read the official wording in the Graduate Catalog . Concentration Requirements - Egyptian Art Successful completion of the M.A. in Egyptian Art and Archaeology requires that the student fulfill a number of additional requirements. A summary is presented below. Click here for a detailed listing of requirements. Within the first year of instruction , the student must complete two (2) departmental core courses - Art History 6123 (Greek Art) and ARTH 7130 (Art History Methods and Professional Practice) - and one (1) year of instruction in the ancient Egyptian language. Successful completion of several competency exams, including a reading exam in either French or German, is also required. It is recommended that the student also take the required Egyptian Art survey course during the first year. At the end of each semester of graduate study until the student is advanced to candidacy, the academic progress of each Art History graduate student is reviewed by the full Art History faculty. The student must receive a satisfactory review from the committee at the end of each semester in order to continue in the program. The second year of study focuses on the master's thesis, including formation of the student's M.A. committee, writing the thesis, passing a Comprehensive Examination and defending the thesis and exam. Additional language instruction also occurs during the second year. For the detailed listing of the Requirements for the Concentration click here. Click "Program Requirements Sheet" to download an Acrobat pdf file to help you plan your courses. Egyptology or Degree-Related Classes Offered at The University of Memphis Primarily in the programs in Art History and History, the University of Memphis offers over two dozen courses relevant to the study of Egyptology. Some of these courses may be taken by advanced undergraduate students while others are reserved for graduate study. These listings are extracted from the on-line undergraduate and graduate bulletins. Sample Two-Year Schedule The degree in Egyptian Art and Archaeology affords the student the opportunity to tailor their program to their specific interests in Egyptology. The sample semester-by-semester schedule for the two year Master's Program in Egyptian Art will help the student plan their course of instruction. Each individual student's specific schedule will vary. M.A. Thesis and Comprehensive Exam The student should select the chair (advisor) of their M.A. thesis committee before the end of the first year of study and their full committee early in their second year. The completed Thesis Faculty Committee form is submitted to the Graduate School at this time. It is the student's responsibility to fill out the form and gather all necessary signatures. The M.A. thesis committee usually consists of three (3) University of Memphis faculty members. For the concentration in Egyptian art, the committee chair must be Art History faculty (Drs. Corcoran, Strudwick or Podzorski). Other committee members are usually drawn from the Art History or History programs. One member may be a non-Egyptologist. The topic of the thesis will be chosen by the student in consultation with their thesis advisor. Preliminary work on topic selection should begin before the end of the first year of study. Research on the thesis should begin early in the second year of study, with writing beginning later in the third semester, and no later than the beginning of the fourth (final) semester of study. The typical M.A. thesis in Art History is 50-60 pages in length (excluding bibliography and appendices) and may be presented in either Turabian or Chicago Manual style. Turabian is preferred; students are encouraged to purchase a copy of the current guide for themselves. The thesis advisor determines when the thesis is ready for presentation to the full thesis committee. The approved draft thesis should be submitted to the full committee no later than the 9th or 10th week of the final (4th) semester of study. The thesis may not be submitted to the full thesis committee until all other requirements for the degree, including the modern foreign language exam, have been successfully met. Links to the on-line thesis preparation guide from the Graduate School at the University of Memphis are below. This also includes model pages for formatting the thesis. As of Fall 2010, all theses must be submitted electronically to the Graduate School for final approval using the ETD ( Electronic Theses and Dissertations ) system. At this time, only the final copy with both Thesis Committee and Graduate School corrects may be submitted for final approval using the ETD system. Paper copies of the thesis are submitted to the thesis committee for review. Graduate School Thesis Preparation Guide (paper and electronic formats) Thesis Deadlines For a detailed listing of UofM web pages related to the thesis process, click here . Once the thesis has been reviewed by the thesis committee, the student must defend it before the full thesis committee. In addition, a written Comprehensive Examination is taken by the student after the completed thesis has been reviewed by the committee. Immediately following the Comprehensive Examination, the student must defend both the Thesis and the Comprehensive Exam to the full thesis committee. The Thesis Defense Results form and the Comprehensive Exam Results form are signed at this time. It is also recommended that the student bring their Final Committee Approval Form for Electronic Submission for signatures. After a final review by the thesis advisor, the corrected thesis is submitted to the Graduate Division following the successful defense . The student and thesis advisor also prepare and submit the co-signed Thesis Checklist (Non-APA style) form at this time. By University of Memphis requirement, the defended and corrected Thesis is filed with the Graduate Division approximately ONE MONTH before the end of the final semester of study. Graduating No later than Thursday of the third week of class in the final semester of study, the student must electronically "Apply to Graduate" in MyMemphis Portal. The Master's Degree Candidacy Form , created online and printed out for required signatures, is also submitted at this time. This form is complex, listing the courses taken by the student which meet University and Departmental graduation requirements. It also requires the signatures of the Major Advisor (Dr. Lorelei Corcoran), the Graduate Coordinator (Professor Fred Albertson), the Art Department Chair (Professor Richard Lou) and the College Director of Graduate Studies (Associate Dean Moira Logan). Read the Grad School Candidacy Form instruction page carefully before beginning this form. Deadlines for filing paperwork for graduation are set by the Graduate School. If you plan to go through graduation ceremonies, cap and gown ordering and commencement information are available on-line. Art History MA Program Requirements Relevant Courses Sample Two-Year Schedule University Web Pages Addition Program Information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/29/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .