#http://www.memphis.edu/cas/faculty-resources/awards/eng_scholarship.php
Excellence in Engaged Scholarship - CAS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. College of Arts &amp; Sciences About Departments Research Scholarships Students Resources News Resources Academic Department Chairs , Program Directors ACCOLADES Archive Awards Chair Leadership/Development Dean's Office Calendar Departments Evaluations Faculty Recruitment Information and Policies Institutes and Centers Research Support Services President's Blog Research, Grants, Funding Tenure and Promotion UMdrive Home CAS Resources Excellence in Engaged Scholarship Excellence in Engaged Scholarship The University of Memphis is an urban research institution that seeks to serve its metropolitan, state, and national communities in a number of ways. Vital to this mission is scholarship that addresses the concerns and opportunities of these communities. Such scholarship involves academic projects that engage faculty members and students in a sustained manner with community groups; connects university outreach with community organizational goals; furthers productive relationships between the university and the community; results in need-inspired basic and applied research; and results in excellence in engaged scholarship through such products as peer-reviewed publications, peer-reviewed collaborative reports, and external funding. In keeping with this purpose, The University of Memphis has established a faculty award to recognize excellence in engaged scholarship. The Excellence in Engaged Scholarship Award will further awareness of engaged scholarship on partnerships between faculty members and students of the University of Memphis and community organizations and agencies in the Memphis/Mid-South region, the State of Tennessee, the United States, and global communities. Nominations for this award are due to the Vice Provost for Research by (DATE TBA - usually 1st Friday of April). Guidelines Candidates must have been employed full-time by The University of Memphis for five academic years prior to the semester of their application or nomination. Faculty may not be re-nominated within 7 years of receiving an award and may not receive more than 2 awards. Nominations should include a resume with a complete list of publications (copies of publications are not required), a narrative summary of the nominee's research achievements, recommendations from the department and college or school, and at least three external letters from distinguished referees. Examples of scholarly and/or creative activities are not to be forwarded for review. Consult your College Director of Graduate Studies and Research as to the internal college deadline. Candidates may be self-nominated or nominated by any faculty or administrative staff member employed full-time by The U of M in the semester of nomination. Those not self-nominated should be informed of their candidacy by the body receiving the nomination. All nominations must be endorsed by the unit chair. Submission Procedure and Deadline The nomination packet consists of the cover sheet (see below), a resume with a complete list of publications (please do not include copies of publications), a narrative summary of research aims and achievements, recommendation letters from the department/area and college/school, and at least three external letters from distinguished referees. The nominee will provide some names of possible reviewers, to be supplemented by the department chair, who will solicit the recommendations. Nominations of faculty who have won the award in the past should stress the nominee's work since that award was won. REVIEW PROCESS A committee will be convened to evaluate submissions. This committee reserves the right to make no award in a given year if in its judgment no sufficiently distinguished recipient can be identified. Reviewers will evaluate the nominations based on quality of scholarly contribution to the discipline; originality of contribution; recognition of work by peers; membership on student committees; external support if available in the discipline, or any other relevant quality measures. The final nominee for the Excellence in Engaged Scholarship Award is subject to confirmation by the President. The confirmed award will then be presented at the annual Faculty Convocation. Each recipient will receive a $2000 honorarium and a certificate. Resources Academic Department Chairs , Program Directors ACCOLADES Archive Awards Chair Leadership/Development Dean's Office Calendar Departments Evaluations Faculty Recruitment Information and Policies Institutes and Centers Research Support Services President's Blog Research, Grants, Funding Tenure and Promotion UMdrive Apply now for an Undergraduate Degree in the College of Arts &amp; Sciences Pursue your dream of having a degree, broaden your career choices and gain the confidence you need to succeed! The College offers Master's and Doctoral Degrees Are you interested in a new profession? Would you like to enhance the knowledge and experience you already possess? Community Engagement We are committed to teaching and serving the Memphis and Mid-South community through our programs and events. Contact Us Dean's Office Contacts, Advising, Department Chairs... Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .