#http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/students/selfserv/quick.php
Registration Quick Guide - Registrar - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty &amp; Staff Forms Students Students Enrollment Verification Grades Overview GPA and Grading Scale Grade Change Transcripts Overview Official Unofficial Lambuth University FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA Notification Release of Student Education Record Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Self Service Guides Home Registrar Students Registration Quick Guide Registration Quick Guide If you have reached this page from a link in the portal, begin at step 3. Login to the portal - with your Username and Password, the same combination used for UofM email. (If you have trouble getting into the portal, use the help links in the lower left-hand corner of the login screen before calling the Helpdesk at 901.678.8888.) Select the Student tab. (The tab turns blue to indicate that it is active.) Find the Registration Tools channel. This channel contains links to these key registration functions plus a collection of help guides: Registration Status; Look Up Classes; Add or Drop Classes, and Concise Student Schedule. When selecting any of the registration functions, you will be prompted for a Term. Select the desired term and then click [Submit]. Click on Registration Status to: Verify your earliest date to register; you cannot register before this date. Check to see if you have any holds; if you do, scroll to the bottom of the screen and click [ View Holds ] to see what you must do to remove the hold. You cannot register if you have a registration hold. Logout (Step 8) and clear the hold before attempting to register. Look for any permits issued to you. If you have a permit, make note of the CRN. Click on Look Up Classes and then the Advanced Search option to check out course offerings. Select options to search for the classes you want. Click [Class Search]. Using the Search options, you can narrow or tailor your results (for example: courses offered at a particular campus, or online courses only, or courses taught by a particular instructor). Refer to Popular Lists and Tips pages to see what's possible, and experiment! When the results are displayed, make note of the CRNs of courses/sections you want. Click on Add or Drop Classes to register for classes. Note : All degree seeking students must be advised. Non-degree seeking students do not need to be advised. If You Are Degree Seeking and Have Been Cleared by Your Advisor to Register (or If You Are Non-Degree Seeking): You will see the Add or Drop Classes screen. Read the instructions and important information. Scroll to the bottom of the screen and enter your CRNs in the row of open blocks. Click [Submit Changes]. The screen will refresh and your courses will be listed. *Web Registered* will appear to the left of those courses you have successfully registered for. Courses you did not successfully register for will be listed below these, with a brief explanation of the problem. * Refer to this list of common error messages . Adjust your classes as needed. * Some students must file proof of MMR (measles, mumps, rubella) immunization with Student Health Services in order to register as full-time students. If you are such a student and have not filed your proof, you will be limited to part-time status until you do so. You will see the "measles" message after you click [Submit Changes], and you will notice that you were not enrolled in all the courses you selected. See: Immunization &gt; MMR for information on submitting your proof. If You Are Degree Seeking but Have NOT Been Cleared by Your Advisor to Register: You will get the Alternate PIN Verification page. Do not enter anything; logout instead (go to Step 8). See your advisor: only your advisor can clear this PIN. Once it is cleared, you will not see the Alternate PIN screen again during the semester. You will be able to register. Click on Concise Student Schedule to view and print your personal class schedule after you have registered. Logout: Click on the logout icon in the upper right-hand corner of the screen. Students Students Enrollment Verification Grades Overview GPA and Grading Scale Grade Change Transcripts Overview Official Unofficial Lambuth University FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA Notification Release of Student Education Record Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Self Service Guides Calendars Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams. Notice! Check for alerts and reminders. Contact Us Have questions? Need assistance or information? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/29/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .