#http://www.memphis.edu/iei/speaktest/
SPEAK Test - IEI - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Intensive English for Internationals About Volunteer Observe SPEAK Test Teach Contact Us Home IEI SPEAK Test SPEAK Test You must take the SPEAK test and score 50+ on it if: You are an F1 graduate student English is not your first language* AND You wish to have a Teaching Assistantship OR You wish to have a Graduate Assistantship that includes: Contact with students The posting of grades However: Students who have scored 26 or higher on the speaking portion of the TOEFL iBT are not required to take the SPEAK test. A score of 23 - 25 on the speaking portion of the TOEFL iBT is equivalent to a score of 45 on the SPEAK test. Students scoring in this range can teach for one semester but must take the SPEAK test before further teaching. At this time IELTS speaking scores are not being accepted as proof of English speaking ability for assistantships. *You may be asked to take the SPEAK test even if English is one of the official languages of your country. These are handled on a case-by-case basis. SPEAK Test Frequently Asked Questions Sign Up for the SPEAK Test Read the information below, then send the following information to iei@memphis.edu : Your name Your student ID number Your department Name and email address of department contact who should receive your SPEAK Test score Date and time requested for the practice SPEAK Test (optional) Date and time requested for the SPEAK Test We will reserve the time you requested if it is available. If alternate times need to be chosen, we will contact you by email. If you have taken the test previously, you will be required to present proof that you have completed the required official remediation before you will be allowed to take the test. SPEAK Test --- For Fall 2015 All tests should be completed and scored before the contract deadline set by the Graduate School. The fall deadline is August 1. NO SPEAK tests will be administered for the fall semester after August 14. SPEAK Tests are scheduled every half-hour from 9:00 to 11:00 a.m July 13-17 Practice tests are scheduled every half-hour from 1:00 to 3:00 p.m. July 13-16 SPEAK Test --- For Spring 2016 All tests should be completed and scored before the contract deadline set by the Graduate School. The spring deadline is December 1. NO SPEAK tests will be administered for the spring semester after January 8. SPEAK Tests are scheduled every half-hour from 9:00 to 11:00 a.m November 9-13 Practice tests are scheduled every half-hour from 1:00 to 3:00 p.m. November 9-12 SPEAK Test --- For Summer 2016 All tests should be completed and scored before the contract deadline set by the Graduate School. The summer deadline is May 1. NO SPEAK tests will be administered for the first or second summer sessions after May 20. SPEAK Tests are scheduled every half-hour from 9:00 to 11:00 a.m. April 6-10 Practice tests are scheduled every half-hour from 1:00 to 3:00 p.m. April 6-9 Sign Up for the SPEAK Test Prep Class The SPEAK Test Prep Class will be offered during the Fall 2015 semester through the IEI program. The cost is $135. For more information and to register for the class, contact the IEI office at iei@memphis.edu . Registration ends August 21, 2015. Apply Daytime Intensive Program Apply Community Courses Apply Online Courses Going on to the University Conditional Admission Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/17/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .