#http://www.memphis.edu/cas/advising/cas_advising_guide.php
CAS Advising Guide - CAS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. College of Arts &amp; Sciences About Departments Research Scholarships Students Resources News Advising Links Advising Center Staff &amp; Contact Guide for Advisors Newsletter for Advisors September 2014 February 2014 Departments Finding Your Advisor First Year Students Graduation/Degree Certification Major and Minor Information Major Four Year Plans Meeting with your Advisor Pre-Professional Advising Upper Division Humanities Upper Division Social Science Withdrawal Home CAS Advising CAS Advising Guide CAS Advising Guide General Information Advising Process in College of Arts and Sciences Arts and Sciences Advising Center contacts Arts and Sciences undergraduate advising contacts How to E-mail Advisees Finish in Four Majors in Arts and Sciences New Student Orientation Scholarships offered by the College of Arts and Sciences University of Memphis Advisor Information Graduation Requirements Navigating the catalog Using the catalog for degree program planning General education requirements Residency Requirements Catalog Applicability B.A. and B.S. degree requirements College Residency Requirements Degree-Second Major Explanation Second Bachelor's degree Department Requirements for Majors and Minors Degree completion checklist Humanities courses Social Science courses The Advising Process Maintaining the advising folder Student and advisor responsibilities Advising Session Guide University New Advisor Training "Are you ready for your advising appointment?" Using the Degree Sheet B.A. and B.S. degree sheets Advising Planning Worksheet RODP Course Equivalencies Tennessee Reverse Transfer Transfer Equivalency Tables Transfer GPA Policy Changes Transfer Work Explanation Forms 4800 Internship Syllabus ABM-Combination Senior Audit request forms Course substitution form Late add request form Late withdrawal petition Major/Minor approval form Overload request procedure and form Request for Academic Record Transfer credit request procedure, and form Transfer Credit Agreement (Arts and Sciences) Applying for Graduation Undergraduate "Applying to Graduate" procedure Checklist for graduation for majors Summary of coursework remaining sheet Contract for graduation Degree Certification: General Information Sample letters Sample Summary of Coursework Remaining Sample Summary of Coursework Remaining Letter Other programs/Means for earning credit Advanced Placement Alternate Credit Project CLEP tests DSST tests Credit by Examination Minors in the College of Arts and Sciences Pre-Health Pre-Law Transfer Equivalency Information on Programs and Specific Requirements Academic Warning, Probation, Suspension Academic Fresh Start ALEKS (Assessment Learning in Knowledge Spaces) ALEKS Placement Guide Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services (CARES) Guidelines for Foreign Language advising Honors Program Honor Societies Learning Support placement and courses Pre-requisite checking Pre-requisites for Math and Sciences Referrals Technology Access to Banner Form Assigning advisors in SGAADVR Banner Guides and Aids Banner/Self Service procedures Banner student information locations Clearing students to register Early intervention Graduation form - SHADEGR Major Report Instructions Matrix information NSO Dashboard UM degree for Advisors Advising Links Advising Center Staff &amp; Contact Guide for Advisors Newsletter for Advisors September 2014 February 2014 Departments Finding Your Advisor First Year Students Graduation/Degree Certification Major and Minor Information Major Four Year Plans Meeting with your Advisor Pre-Professional Advising Upper Division Humanities Upper Division Social Science Withdrawal Apply now for an Undergraduate Degree in the College of Arts &amp; Sciences Pursue your dream of having a degree, broaden your career choices and gain the confidence you need to succeed! The College offers Master's and Doctoral Degrees Are you interested in a new profession? Would you like to enhance the knowledge and experience you already possess? Community Engagement We are committed to teaching and serving the Memphis and Mid-South community through our programs and events. Contact Us Dean's Office Contacts, Advising, Department Chairs... Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .