#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT3215002.pdf
Course Syllabus MGMT 3215 (Section 002) Human Resource Management (3 credit hours) Fall 2015, W 7:10pm -10:10pm , FCB 125 INSTRUCTOR Alex Rubenstein , Ph.D. OFFICE 323 FCB OFFICE HOURS T,Th 11:15 am-1:00pm, by appointment TELEPHONE 901-678-2910 EMAIL rbnstein @memphis.edu MAILBOX 322 FCB COURSE OVERVIEW AND OBJECTIVES This course will provide an overview of human resource management (HRM). HRM is one of the most critical aspects of any organization, as it decides who is hired, how are they trained, developed, compensated, and what steps are taken to retain them. Put simply, if an organization wants good peop le, then it must practice good HRM. By successfully completing this course, students will be able to: 1. Understand how the HRM role fits into an organization’s strategic operations. 2. Conduct a job analysis to hire for vacant positions. 3. Know how to anticipa te and plan for labor market surpluses/shortages. 4. Recruit and select talent based on validated hiring tools and measures. 5. Understand the basic legal environment and how it applies to HRM responsibilities. 6. Effectively implement a training program to obtain desired employee outcomes. 7. Accurately gauge employee performance and reduce bias in the performance management process. 8. Design a compensation/benefits system to motivate and retain employees. 9. Recognize the causes of voluntary turnover in order to proactive ly prevent it. 10. Understand when and how to effectively sever employment relationships. Fogelman College of Business: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree: This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the BBA degree of fered b y the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with the overall learning objectives as a student in the BBA program . COURSE MATERIALS I ha ve selected various news articles for use in this class. Each student will find class articles provided on the eCourseware website. These articles will supplement course lectures and discussion, and will contain content for class quizzes. The course textbo ok is also a valuable resource to learn the material along with the lecture slides. Be prepared to discuss each assigned article before the respective class day. Recommended text book : Noe, R. A., Hollenbeck, J. R., Gerhart, B., & Wright, P. M. (20 14). Human Resource Management , 9th Edition. Irwin McGraw -Hill. Extraneous -but -valuable readings on life, living, and happiness : How to Win Friends and Influence People (Carnegie) , The Slight Edge (Olson), Infinite Jest ( Wallace), Island (Huxley), Siddhartha (He sse), The Great Gatsby (Fitzgerald), Stumbling on Happiness (Gilbert) . GRADING AND EVALUATION CRITERIA Over the semester, you will have a variety of opportunities to earn points towards your final (overall) letter grade in this course. This section of the syllabus describes the assessed work you will be doing and how overall (final) letter grades will be computed. SUMMARY OF GRADED ACTIVITIES POINTS Exam I 100 Exam II 100 Exam III 100 Quizzes (best 4 of 5 scores) 40 Participation 60 (Extra Credit ) (+40) TOTAL 400 FINAL COURSE GRADES Final course grades are earned according to the following table . Final grades are exactly, that...Final. Once you are awarded a grade, it is non -negotiable. Grades will be based upon the following criteria, out of 400 total course points . (Note : grades are based off of a student’s total points , not percentages) : PERCENT POINTS GRADE 92 –100% 368-400 A 88 – 91.9% 352-367 A- 85 – 87.9% 340-351 B+ 82 – 84.9% 328-339 B 78 – 81.9% 312-327 B- 75 – 77.9% 300-311 C+ 72 – 74.9% 288-299 C 68 – 71.9% 272-287 C- 65 – 67.9% 260-271 D+ 62 – 64.9% 248-259 D 60 – 61.9% 240-247 D- ! 60% ! 239 F DETAILS ON COURSE REQUIREMENTS EXAMS Three examinations will cover all course material, including lectures, exercises, and article readings. The examinations will be held during class time and will be non-cumulative . Exams will be held on the scheduled day online via eCourseware’s quiz system. Exam dates are firm . To take exams you will be required to download the Respondus Lockdown Browser ( oad/respondus.shtml ). If you have trouble obtaining this software, please contact IT Helpdesk Support ( ). Missed examinations may not be made up without prior permission, no ex ceptions. Each exam will cover approximately one -third of the course material. There is also an optional cumulative final exam (covering all semester topics) . You may use this final exam grade to replace your lowest of the three prior exam grades, or you m ay opt out of taking this final and retain the scores on the first three exams. Final Exam Schedule The optional final exam for this class will be scheduled according to the Registrar’s academic calendar website . The optional final exam for this class will be held on eCourseware on Wednesday , December 9th. If you are taking the exam, you can take it any time on this date. QUIZZES To make sure students have completed the assigned readin gs, there will be five quizzes given during the semester (10 points each , retain best four scores ). These quizzes will be administered on eCourseware, and will consist of two questions covering basic aspects of the readings for that class day . For example, Quiz I covers only the articles “No time to read this? Read this”, and “If you need to work better, work less”. The quizzes will be open to answer until class time on the day those readings will be discussed (see course schedule). If you have read the ass igned articles, you should have no trouble acing these quizzes. PARTICIPATION Participation in this class can be arrived at via multiple ways. One way is to participate in class discussions by voicing your opinion or answering my questions. A second way is to contribute on the eCourseware discussion board, where I will post question prompts regarding the current week’s topic. All students will begin the semester with 4 5 out of 60 participation points. If you regularly participate in our in -class and/or on-line discussion board , your score will increase. If you regularly attend class but only participate when prompted, or are only minimally present in discussion s, your score will remain at 4 5. If you never participate (in class or on the discussion board ), your score will decrease. Note: for the online discussion boards, participation is reflected in how much you post and the depth /insight of posts. I will only count a maximum number of posts each week (and will lock the discussion after a topic has passe d), so one cannot make a ton of posts in the last week of the semester and expect to receive full participation points —it is a cumulative determination of your contribution across the semester . PERSONAL BIOGRAPHY To obtain a clearer picture about who each of you are, what your aspirations and interests are (and to learn your names and faces more quickly), please submit a 1 -2 page personal biography that tells me about yourself. Details for what I would like to see from the bios will be provided on the firs t day of class, and should be submitted on eCourseware no later than Sunday, August 30 th at 11:59pm. EXTRA CREDIT ARTICLE/VIDEO SUBMISSIONS You can earn up to 40 points in extra credit in class . 25 points can be achieved via the Personal Development Plan (see next paragraph). Another 15 points can be obtained via article/video clip submissions and write -ups. For articles/videos , present recent (no more than three years old) newspaper/WSJ/NY Times/online articles or essays, or selected excerpts from movi es or TV shows (maximum 3 submissions, for 5 points each) and explain how each illustrates a topic covered in class in approximately 500 words. I will not accept simple summaries of the articles/excerpts —you must apply what you’ve learned in the course by showing precisely how it relates to a relevant HRM issue. You can only present one clip per class topic (i.e. you cannot present two clips relating to compensation). Article links/video clips along with explanations in a Word/.pdf document must be uploaded to eCourseware no later than Sunday, December 6 th at 11:59pm to receive any extra credit (but can be submitted anytime before during the semester). Please do a good job finding interesting articles and clips, because I plan to use them in my lectures duri ng future semesters. PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN As upper -level undergraduates, many of you will be on the job market in the near future. Moreover, many individuals go into HRM with the idea that they are “people” persons. With this in mind, seeing one’s se lf accurately —or at least having the willingne ss to —is important for improvement toward our potent ial. Yet one cannot realize one s potential without first knowing personal weaknesses and strengths . The personal development plan (PDP) is an optional extra c redit exercise that supplements our final lecture on Personal/Professional Development. If you choose to do it, you will be asked to prepare a document that assesses your strengths and weaknesses (from your own and from others’ perspectives) and that sets goals for the future. Guidelines for this extra credit assignment are posted on eCourseware . The effort put into your PDP will determine the points you receive, and will be due on November 17th by 11:59pm . COURSE POLICIES E-MAIL All students are require d to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all official course correspondence at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not regularly checking your ema il, having a “full mailbox” condition, etc.) is the student’s responsibility. Throughout the semester, I will email the class via a group list -serv to remind everyone of upcoming deadlines, to provide feedback about class assignments, exercises and/or supp lemental handouts we will work on during the course, and to keep everyone up -to-date should any tentative changes need to be made to the course schedule. Email is the easiest way to contact me, and I am usually quite fast in responding. I want to make su re all deadlines and dates are clear and known to everyone ( though do see the last page of syllabus). If you email me, however, I REQUIRE that you write with professional correspondence, proper grammar, and general courtesies (i.e. greeting, signoff/signat ure, NO “text -speak”). TECHNOLOGY Please silence your cell phones while in class . As for laptops, r esearch indicates that while use of technological devices has some benefits, overall it significantly distracts your and others’ attention from the subject at hand. So, while I respect your right of self -determination, please refrain from texting or browsing the I nternet during class time. Please also note that you are responsible for downloading the class slides prior to class , which are available on eCours eware . ATTENDANCE It is my belief that the people who are most interested in learning and gaining practical knowledge will come to class regularly. Further, research shows a consistent positive relationship between attendance and course grades. This is a college -level course and it is ultimately up to you to determine what you get out of your education . I will take attendance twice during the semester, at random. If you are absent (unexcused) during either of those times, you will lose five participation p oints for each absence. All course readings and lecture slides are posted on eCourseware (note: video clips are not posted). However, other learning tools that I use may prove valuable come exam time (e.g. I often poll the class with questions to be answer ed on your phones ; similar questions may show up on exams). Note that your participation grade is also , in part, determined by my knowing who you are, and your voicing opinion s in class or on the eCourseware discussion boards. I have put a significant amo unt of time into making this course relevant and engaging, and I am interested to hear about your personal experiences and how they relate to course topics (e.g. employee selection and your own experiences in interviewing for jobs). As such, I strongly enc ourage you to attend class . Lateness, however, is NOT tolerated. The classroom doors will close shortly after class starts; class will not be interrupted due to your tardiness. ADDING/DROPPING: If you have questions about adding or dropping classes, plea se refer to this page on the Registrar’s website ! ACCESSING COURSE WEBSITE The MGMT 3215 Course is presented largely via UM’s eCourseware system. Create a shortcut (link or favor ite) in your browser that will take you directly to the eCourseware login site. • • Also available in the MyMemphis eCampus Resources tab. • Log in using your Memphis UUID and password. • You will see a list of all courses for which yo u are registered in the current term. Choose “ MGMT 3215 – Mgmt of Human Resources - (Rubenstei n)” You must be registered for the course and section to enter! Please note that sometimes the registrar’s enrollment data is late arriving; so if you are denied access initially, try again in 24 hours. IMPORTANT: Be sure you have completed the browser and java check provided on the eCourseware login page. It may not operate correctly if your browser/java does not meet the stated requirements! ACADEMIC INTEGRITY The University’s policy on academic honesty is strictly enforced. Although you may discuss projects and course lectures outside of class, copying off others during exams, using past assignments or tests (other that what I have provided), or any other fo rm of academic dishonesty will result in a zero grade on the assignment or exam and could result in more severe penalties as determined by University policy. In short, academic dishonesty WILL NOT BE TOLERATED . Please refer to the office of judicial and e thical programs for the code of student conduct: . Any student who anticipates physical or other acade mic barriers to progress based on the impact of a disability is encouraged to speak with me privately. Students requesting accommodations for disabilities should register with the Disability Resources for Students (DRS) at 110 Wilder Tower. I am more than willing to reasonably accommodate student needs in the course. Any modifications to seating, testing, or other class requirements will be arranged as necessary. Call 901 -678-2880 for more details. COURSE TOPICS AND TENTATIVE COURSE SCHEDULE The con tent of the course will be covered in the following sequence (see below ). Please note that while some dates are subject to change (some topics may tak e more time than others) , exam/assignment dates are firm. DATE TOPICS READINGS /ASSIGNMENTS Wed 8/26 Syllabus and HRM Intro Primer Personal Bio Due 8/30 to eCourseware by 11:59 pm Introduction to HRM Article: “Why we hate HR” Article: “HR departments get new star power…” Wed 9/2 Job Analysis & Design I Article: “A modern conundrum…” Article: “A low -cost w ay to improve performance” Article: “Silicon valley rethinks cubicles…” Job Analysis & Design II Quiz I: Open until class time 9/2 Article: “No time to read this? Read this” Article: “If you need to work better, work less” Wed 9/9 Planning & Recruitmen t I Article: “The case for backshoring” Article: “Employers hold off on hiring” Planning & Recruitment II Article: “ Minimize risk of hiring outside stars… ” Article: “Internal hires, referrals trumped outsiders” Article: “Only the employed need apply” Wed 9/16 EXAM #1 Topics Covered: Intro to HRM , Job Analysis & Design, Planning & Recruitment Wed 9/23 Selection I Article: “Select on intelligence” (only first 4 pages) Article: “Applicants’ personalities put to the test” Selection II Qui z II: Open unt il class time 9/23 Article: “Thx for the IView!...” Article: “Talking too much on a job interview…” Wed 9/30 Selection III Article: “Are 2 nd and 3 rd interviews necessary?” Article: “To find best hires, firms become creative” Legal Issues in HRM Quiz III: Open until class time 9/30 Article: “Support grows for disabled job seekers” Article: “Reverse discrimination case could transfor m hiring” Wed 10/7 Training I Article: “They ponder layoffs, but…” Training II Article: “Video games can be highly effecti ve...” Article: “Theory and practice: Firms step up training…” 10/10-10/13 FALL BREAK – NO CLASS ES Wed 10/14 EXAM #2 Topics Covered: Selection, Legal Issues in HRM, Training Wed 10/21 Performance Management I Text: pp. 355 – 383; 388 – 397 Performan ce Management II Quiz IV: Open until class time 10/21 Article: “Performance reviews need some work…” Article: “Employers rethink how they give feedback” Article: “The cat hid my car keys…” Wed 10/28 Compensation: Pay Structure s Text: pp. 500 – 533; 444 – 447; 542 – 565 (structure); 580 – 615 (benefits) Article: “Where the jobs are” Article: “Slump prods firms to seek new compact ...” Article: “Parking hierarchy can fuel egos… ” Compensation: Benefits Article: “Mr. Burd goes to Washington” Wed 11/4 Retenti on I Quiz V: Open until class time 11/4 Text: pp. 4 60-489 Article: “How to keep your best executives” Article: “Best way to save...” Retention II Article: “Hotelier finds happiness…” Wed 11/11 Separation Article: “ Bad firings can hurt reputations ” Article: “Challenges facing downsizing agents…” Wed 11/18 Personal/Professional Development Extra Credit: Person al Development Plan Due by 11/17 to eCourseware by 11:59pm In-Class Exam Review Jeopardy Wed 11/25 Thu 11/26 EXAM #3 (Open 11/20 -11/25 ) THA NKSGIVING – NO CLASSES Topics Covered: Performance Management, Compensation, Retention, Separation Wed 12/2 Prof. Rubenstein Traveling - No Class Thu 12/3 Study Day – University Wide, No Classes Extra Credit Articles/Video Clip Write -ups Due 12/6 to eCourseware by 11:59pm Wed 12/9 Optional Cumulative Final Topics Covered: All course topics. Administered on eCourseware KEY SEMESTER DATES Below you will find key dates of class during the semester. In BOLD are days in which class does not meet (e.g. Fall break, woo!) August 25th………………….…First Day of Class August 30th………………….....Personal Biography Due to eCourseware by 11:59pm September 7 th……………….….Labor Day – NO CLASSES September 2nd………………….. Quiz I Due on eCourseware by class time September 16th…………………Exam I (Intro, Job Analysis/Design, Planning/ Recruitment) September 23rd………………... Quiz II Due on eCourseware by class time September 24 th……………….…Dr. Alex’s Birthday September 30th……..………….. Quiz III Due on eCourseware by class time October 10th-13th……………....FALL BREAK! October 14th.. …………..……….. Exam II (Selection, Legal Issues in HRM, Training) October 2 1st.……..…………… ...Quiz IV Due on eCourseware by class time November 4th……..…………… ..Quiz V Due on eCourseware by class time November 17th……………………Extra Credit PDP Due to eCourseware by 11:59pm November 1 8th……………………..In Class Exam Review Day (Jeopardy Group Game) November 20 th-25th………………..Exam III open on eCourseware (Performance Managemen t, Compensation, Retention, Separation) November 26 th…..………………… .NO CLASS –Thanksgiving Holiday December 2nd…..………………… …NO CLASS —Prof. Rubenstein Traveling December 3 rd………………………University -wide Study Day – No Classes December 6th………………………..Extra credit article submissions Due to eCourseware by 11:59pm December 9th……………………….. Optional Cumulative Final Exam on eCourseware (All Course Topics )