#http://www.memphis.edu/cas/advising/documents/14feb-advisor-newsletter.pdf
EVENTS AND DEADLINES LAST DAY TO DROP (FULL SESSION) Friday, March 21 DEADLINE FOR NOMINAT Monday, March 24 REGISTRATION BEGINS FOR SUMMER/FALL 2014 Monday, April 7 LAST DAY TO APPLY FOR AUGUST 2014 GRADUATION Wednesday, April 9 JUNIOR PREVIEW DAY Saturday, April 26 HONORS ASSEMBLY Sunday, April 27 SPRING COMMENCEMENT 2014 Saturday, May 10, 10:00 a.m. The College of Arts and Sciences ARTS AND SCIENCES ONLINE ADVISING GUIDE Check the link on the for advisors. We update the site frequently! ARTS AND SCIENCES ADVISING WORKSHOP All advisors are strongly encouraged to attend the CAS Advising Workshop on Friday, February 21 from 1:30 - 3:30 p.m., Manning 206 . The workshop will cover a variety of current issues in advising in the college. Please RSVP to Patsy Krech by Wednesday, ARTS AND SCIENCES WORKSHOP AGENDA Curriculum changes for 2014 - 15 Updates to the Undergraduate Catalog Interdisciplinary Programs ABM Combination Senior Status Intent to Graduate process changes New Student Orientation 2014 Early Intervention Courses to Consider ACADEMIC ADVISING NETWORK The Academic Advising Network (AAN) is a university - wide group led by Karen Thurmond. Meetings are held monthly from Fall to Spring. This spring the meetings are set for March 11 and each second Tuesday through May, 10:30 - 12:00 in the UC Senate Chambers. All ad- visors are encouraged to attend. New Student Orientation 2014 12 sessions for new freshmen May 22 - 23 June 23 - 24 July 21 - 22 May 29 - 30 June 26 - 27 July 24 - 25 June 9 - 10 July 7 - 8 July 28 - 29 June 12 - 13 July 10 - 11 August 7 - 8 If new freshmen, just out of high school, contact you for advising, please ask them to register for an NSO session If they insist that they cannot come to NSO, refer them to Patsy. The schedule for these events has not been finalized, but advising will probably occur around 11:30 - 12:15 on the first day of each session, and you can make individual appointments later in the afternoon if need- ed. NEW for SUMMER 2014 NSO -- You will receive a one to two page snapshot on each new freshman. 3 sessions for Transfers/Adults There will not be a set time to advise during these 3 Open House sessions: June 3, July 1, and August 5 New transfer and adult students should make an advising appointment and register for summer/fall clas- ses prior to their Open House sessions. Patsy will receive a list about every two weeks of those who have not met with an advisor, e - mailing the individual students and sending a copy of the list to advisors. We have been asked to encourage advisors to make petitions in UMdegree before you meet with a new transfer student so that the student can see them in a timely manner. If you set up a meeting with a student and the student is not in UMdegree, you may submit a Helpdesk request to have the student added. See the last page of the newsletter for detailed instructions. -- Major, Concentration, Minor, Catalog Changes: Students can come to Scates 107 to make changes in their academic program, or they can e - mail Mary, Sylvia, Patsy, or casgraduation@memphis.edu to make these changes. It might be best for the advisor to send an e - CHECK YOUR CURRICULUM ! Near the end of February, the on - line Under- graduate Catalog will be updated to reflect all curriculum changes that have been approved for Fall 2014. Advisors are highly encouraged to check their program and course descrip- tions to make sure that there are no errors or problems with the catalog. If you do see any- thing that is incorrect, please contact Patsy Krech immediately. CHECK YOUR WEBSITE TOO ! Please make sure that the information pertain- ing to your undergraduate programs is up - to - date on your departmental website. PRE - PROFESSIONAL ADVISING Please continue to encourage any students who in- dicate an interest in an area of healthcare or law to meet with the Pre - Professional Advisor, Jessica Kel- so, early in their academic career. Students can schedule appointments by calling 678 - 5454. Addi- tional information, including the Pre - Health and Pre - Law Student Guides and a calendar of events, can be found online at: - - - REMINDERS! Assigning Advisor Name: When you clear a student on SPAAPIN, be sure to check SGAADVR and enter yourself as the advisor for the stu- Graduation Status: dent has applied for graduation or not. Filed (FI) - student has submitted the application but a summary has not yet been created Preliminary Checkout (PC) - student has received a summary and must return it to be placed on the MAY 2014 graduation list OR For AUGUST 2014 graduations and following, students will be coded Summary Returned (SR) when the sum - mary is created because they will NOT be required to return the signed summary Summary Returned (SR) - students classes will be checked at the beginning of the final semester for readi- ness to graduate Approved (AP) - student has been approved for graduation in the term indicated Ineligible (IE) - student is not eligible to graduate in the term indicated due to missing courses, hours, GPA, transfer transcript needed Graduated (GR) - student has been certified for graduation in the weeks following the semester Disqualified (DQ) - student was not eligible for certification due to missing courses, hours, GPA, transfer transcript needed Applying for Graduation: Students now apply to graduate in myMemphis, My Degree tab, Commencement and Graduation channel. All students planning to graduate in August or December 2014 should have applied to graduate by now. The absolute deadline to apply for August 2014 is April 9, 2014, and the deadline for December 2014 is July 16, 2014. The application for May 2015 is now open for students to use, and the University deadline is November 12, 2014. Summary of Coursework Remaining: Students receive only one summary for a specific major. It is best that the student go over it with the advisor as soon as possible so that everyone understands what is needed. Only if a student completely changes majors or degrees will a new summary be created. For August 2014 and beyond, graduation candidates will be informed that it is their responsibility to inform us if they need their graduation date changed; otherwise, their degree will be certified if they have completed all requirements during the semester for which they applied. Pre - Health Students and Online Courses: It is becoming increasingly common for professional schools to explicitly state that online science coursework will not be accepted. Although these courses are not denoted as online courses on the University of Memphis tran- script, students should abide by the prerequisite guidelines established by the professional school and be advised to avoid these courses. Students who take online science courses and attempt to pass them off as the appropriate cretion. When in doubt, students should check with the school(s) they are applying to in order to verify their coursework is acceptable. Questions should be addressed to Jessica Kelso, Pre - Professional Advisor, at jessica.kelso@memphis.edu.