#http://www.memphis.edu/emprelations/guide.php
Performance Management Assessment Reference Guide - Employee Relations &amp; Engagement - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Employee Relations &amp; Engagement Staff Directory Performance Management Awards Other HR Policies Home Employee Relations &amp; Engagement Performance Management Assessment Reference Guide Performance Management Assessment Reference Guide A Tennessee Board of Regents Institution An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action University Copyright 2000, 2015 The University of Memphis, Department of Human Resources. All other rights are reserved. THE PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT CYCLE Effective Performance Management Assessments follow a Performance Management Cycle: 1) Set Performance Standards 2) Communicate Standards and Expectations 3) Monitor Employee Performance All Year 4) Give Ongoing Feedback 5) Write and Conduct the Performance Management Assessment At the beginning of the period for which you will appraise the employee (usually 12 months prior), discuss with the employee the importance of each appraisal factor on the form as it relates to their job responsibilities. You may include a job-related Optional Factor that is not preprinted. You must rate a minimum of 8 performance appraisal factors as a 1 or a 2. Use the Importance Rating Scale below to set the rating number. 2 = Highly Important to Position 1 = Important to Position 0 = Not Applicable to Position Once you and the employee agree on the importance of each factor, write on the performance management worksheet the appropriate rating number for each performance factor. Save the worksheet in the employee's file and update when a change in expectations occurs, or when a new incumbent is hired. To access the performance management worksheet, click here . Instructions for Completing the Performance Management Assessment Form 1) At the end of the period for which you are appraising the employee, retrieve the performance management assessment form that you marked with agreed upon Importance Ratings of appraisal factors. 2) Use the Performance Rating Scale of 1-5 to rate the employee for each performance appraisal factor that has an Importance Rating of more than 0. Highlight the rating by clicking on the down arrow key next to Performance Rating. Ratings are available in tenths of a point. (Example 3.3 or 3.4) 3) Provide supporting comments for all ratings. Comments should be as specific as possible. Note actual examples of job performance that support your rating. You may attach additional documents, if necessary. 4) After completing the performance management assessment form, ratings will be automatically calculated to get the Overall Performance Rating Score. Manual Calculations a) Transfer the Job Importance Ratings for each factor to Column 1 on the chart at the end of this guide, add these ratings, and write the total in the Total Importance Rating (TIR) space provided at the bottom of Column 1. b) Go to column 2, Importance Ratio. For each factor divide the Job Importance Rating in Column 1 by the number you calculated as the TIR. Multiply this number by 10 and round to the nearest tenth place. Write these numbers in Column 2. Example: If the Job Importance Rating (I) is a 1 and Total Importance Rating (TIR) is 12, then the Importance Ratio (IR) is 1/12 or .083 X 10 = .83. Then round to 8. c) Add Column 2. The total IR's should approximate 10, but due to rounding it will not be exact. d) Now transfer each Performance Rating to Column 3. e) Multiply each Importance Ratio by the Performance Rating, and write the result in Column 4. Add these Weighted Ratings, and write the total at the bottom of Column 4. f) To obtain the Overall Performance Rating Score, multiply the Total Rating Score (TRS) by 2. Write the result in the space for Overall Performance Rating Score. IMPORTANT POINTS You may use the Special Recognition section of the Staff Performance Management Assessment form to note significant employee achievement. This documentation will not affect the Overall Performance Rating Score. The Affirmative Action Section must also be completed for staff that makes hiring and promotional decisions/recommendations. This rating will not affect the Overall Performance Rating Score. Performance Appraisal Factors are listed in alphabetical order, not in order of performance. PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL FACTOR EXAMPLES I. Flexibility Job Importance Rating: 1 *Adapts to changing work demands and priorities *Learns and/or assumes new tasks *Accepts changes and can integrate new knowledge and skills Performance Rating: 3 Supporting Comments: Normally accepts new and different tasks with little difficulty and impact on workflow processes. The employee required the standard length of time to adapt to the new telephone system. II. Quality of Work Job Importance Rating: 1 *Effectively performs the job through timeliness, accuracy and thoroughness *Maintains high quality work relative to established standards *Consistently follows University policies and procedures Performance Rating: 4 Supporting Comments: Projects are always completed on time with few errors. Once the employee did not know if all University documents needed to have the University logo and date, but she/he contacted the Media Relations department for advice before printing the document. Example: Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 Column 4 Performance Appraisal Factors Job Importance Rating ( I ) From Pages 1-3 Importance Ratio ( IR ) I/TIR X 10 Performance Rating ( PR ) From Pages 1 - 3 Weight Rating ( WR ) IR X PR Flexibility 1 1/3 X 10 = 3 3 9 Quality of Work 2 2/3 X 10 = 7 4 28 Totals 3 Total Importance Rating (TIR) Total Importance Ratio 37 Total Rating Score (TRS) Total Rating Score (TRS) 37 multipled by 2 equals 74 = Overall Performance Rating Score Overall Performance Score Rankings: (Circle appropriate level) 1 - 35 Unsatisfactory performance 36 - 59 Needs some improvement to meet position requirements 60 - 75 Meets position requirements 76 - 95 Frequently exceeds position requirements 96 - 100 Distinguished performance Electronic Performance Management Assessment Copyright 2000, 2007, 2011, 2013, 2015 The University of Memphis, Department of Human Resources. All other rights are reserved. The Guide and Form program may not be used or copied by third parties without appropriate written permission. Electronic Appraisal Performance Appraisal The online performance management system for staff evaluations Service Award Recipients The annually-updated list of service award winners across the UofM Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .