#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/Univ_college/org_leadership.php
Organizational Leadership - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Organizational Leadership Organizational Leadership Organizational Leadership is designed to (1) promote understanding of the nature of organizations and the fundamentals of administrative leadership; (2) allow students to reflect upon national and international organizational contexts and upon significant social and cultural issues raised in those contexts; and (3) promote skills in formal and interpersonal communication, including sensitivity to personal issues having an impact upon the quality of accomplishment in the work place. A. General Education (35-41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. Students who have completed one year of American History in high school are exempted from the six credit-hour History General Education Program requirement; otherwise, students will have to meet the History requirement. B. Professional Core: Coordinated Study (33 hours) Note: A course taken in one group will not be counted in another group of the Professional Core. Administration and Supervision (3 hours) ( Take one course from this group): TECH 4381 Principles of Supervision MGMT 3110 Principles of Supervision and Management PADM 3601 Public Administration Organizational Systems (3 hours) (Take one course from this group): MGMT 3215 Human Resources Management MGMT 4420 Organizational Behavior in Business PADM 4226 Nonprofit Organizations Statistical and Research Methods (3 hours) (Take one course from this group): EDPR 4541 Educational Statistics PADM/POLS 4101 Political Statistics SOCI 3311 Social Statistics MATH 1530 Prob/Statistics/Non Calculus Written Communications (3 hours) (Take one course from this group): ENGL 3601 Technical and Professional Writing ENGL 3604 Persuasive Writing JOUR 3421 Public Relations Writing MGMT 3510 Business Communications Team and Organizational Relations (3 hours) (Take one course from this group): COMM 4011 Communications in Organizations COMM 4342 Small Group Communication COMM 4373 Interracial Communications COMM 4375 Intercultural Communications COUN 4621 Human Interactions COMM 4341 Interpersonal Communication COMM 4380 Communication and Conflict Political and International Context (3 hours) (Take one course from this group): ACCT 3130 Legal, Social, Political Environment ACCT 3011 Business Law ECON 4130 Government Regulation of Business HIST 3212 Latin American Nations HIST 3274 Modern Islamic World HIST 3291 Modern Asia HIST 3302 Modern Europe HIST 3881 African-American History JOUR 4712 Mass Media and Culture POLS 3213 Introduction to the Study of Public Policy POLS 3302 Western European Government and Politics POLS 3304 African Politics POLS 3306 Latin American Government and Politics POLS 3309 Government and Politics of the Middle East POLS 3509 Contemporary Problems International Relations POLS 3302 Western European Government and Politics POLS 3304 African Politics POLS 3306 Latin American Government and Politics POLS 3309 Government and Politics of the Middle East POLS 4305 Post-Soviet Governments and Politics POLS 4307 Government and Politics of Communist China Leadership (15 hours) (Take 5 courses, no more than 3 courses from any one area) : ACCT 3130 Legal, Social, Political Environment of Business* COUN 4611 Introduction to Counseling COUN 4621 Human Interactions* COUN 4781 Strategies for Crisis Intervention ECON 3411 Economics of Social Issues JOUR 3400 Introduction to Public Relations LEAD 3350 The Adult Learner METH 4381 Principles of Supervision* MGMT 3110 Principles of Supervision and Management* PADM 3601 Public Administration* PADM 4226 Nonprofit Organizations* PSYC 3101 Psychology of Personality PSYC 3106 Social Psychology SOCI 3422 Racial and Ethnic Minorities SOCI 3432 Sociology of Gender UNIV 4110 Internship C . Thematic Studies (6 hours) D. Senior Project (3 hours) UNIV 4995 Senior Project (completed during the final semester) E. Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120 with a minimum of 42 upper-division hours. Experiential Learning Credit Students may be granted credit for college-level knowledge related to their major area of study that they have gained from work experience, life experience, or non-college instruction. Students who would like an assessment of such learning must prepare a portfolio that describes and documents their learning experience. Portfolios are assessed by faculty who teach in the students’ field of study. Assessment by Portfolio is reserved for knowledge and competencies that do not readily fit into the Credit by Examination procedures. For more information please visit the Experiential Learning website at College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .