#http://www.memphis.edu/admissions/faq.php
Frequently Asked Questions - Admissions - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Admissions Freshmen Transfer Readmit Graduate Law International High School Home Admissions Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions What is the mailing address for the Office of Admissions? I have a copies of documents that have been requested by the Office of Admissions. Can I submit these copies to continue my admission process? Must I readmit if I sat out a semester? How can I find out which courses, taken at my former college, will transfer? I received a letter requiring me to show that I have registered for Selective Service; however, I am not eligible yet. What should I do? How long will it take for my admission application to be processed? What are the driving directions to the University of Memphis and location of the Office of Admissions? How soon will I know if I’ve been accepted to the University of Memphis? When I check my application status online, I see that I have incomplete items. What does this mean and how can I find out what items are incomplete? I just realized that I submitted my online application with an error. Is there any way I can correct this error online? I receive correspondence from the Office of Admissions via e-mail and regular mail. Why don’t you send all correspondence via e-mail? What is the mailing address for the Office of Admissions? University of Memphis Office of Admissions 101 Wilder Tower Memphis, TN 38152-3520 I have copies of documents that have been requested by the Office of Admissions. Can I submit these copies to continue my admission process? The Office of Admissions requires official documentation for application processing. Documents are considered official only if sent directly from the issuing institution. College entrance examination scores (SAT/ACT) will be considered official if they appear on an official high school transcript. Personal copies of requested documentation cannot be accepted. Please see Admission Requirements for more information Must I readmit if I sat out a semester? Students who have sat out one regular semester (fall or spring) must be readmitted to the University. How can I find out which courses, taken at my former college, may transfer? Please refer to the online transfer equivalency tables to determine which courses may transfer. If you do not find your institution listed you may wish to contact the Office of Admissions at (901) 678-2111 for more information. I received a letter requiring me to show that I have registered for Selective Service; however, I am not eligible yet. What should I do? You may still be admitted without this information, however, when you become eligible and complete your registration for Selective Service , please notify our office. How long will it take for my admission application to be processed? Once you apply online, please allow 2-3 business days for your application to be processed. After we receive all of the required supporting documents, an admission decision will be made and you will be notified by mail and e-mail. What are the driving directions to the University of Memphis and location of the Office of Admissions? Please see the Visit the Campus page for information on directions , campus map , parking , and arranging a tour. The Office of Admissions is located in Room 101 of Wilder Tower. Wilder Tower is located near the intersection of Patterson and Walker Streets. How soon will I know if I’ve been accepted to the University of Memphis? Only after all outstanding items are received can an admissions decision be made. The University of Memphis requires official documents to make an admissions decision. Please monitor your e-mail (or regular mail) for notification of what outstanding items are needed to continue processing your application. Decisions regarding graduate programs may take a little longer than undergraduate due to the cooperative efforts between the academic department and the Office of Admissions. When I check my application status online, I see that I have incomplete items. What does this mean and how can I find out what items are incomplete? When you submitted your application, several of the responses automatically triggered additional requests. For example, if you are male between 18-26, you will be asked to verify registration with Selective Service and/or if you indicated that you’ve earned college credit from another accredited institution of higher education, you will be asked to have an official transcript submitted for evaluation, etc…. You will be notified what, if any, items are outstanding after an analyst has reviewed your application – this may take 2-3 business days. I just realized that I submitted my online application with an error. Is there any way I can correct this error online? No. Once an online application has been submitted, changes can only be made by an admissions analyst. Please contact the Office of Admissions to request the correction. I receive correspondence from the Office of Admissions via e-mail and regular mail. Why don’t you send all correspondence via e-mail? The Office of Admissions has a complex communication system that utilizes both e-mail (personal and official UofM) and regular mail. E-mail is the preferred method for corresponding with applicants. If you provided an e-mail address on the application for admission, we will communicate with you at that address. If you are accepted, instructions for setting up your UofM e-mail account will be provided with your official acceptance letter (e-mail). It is important that you set up your UofM e-mail account. From this point forward, all correspondence will be sent to your official UofM e-mail account. Meet Your Counselor Meet the counselor assigned to assist you. Request Information Sign up as a True Blue Tiger. Visit the Campus Sign up for your own tour of the University of Memphis. Upcoming Events Learn what it means to be a Tiger! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .